ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1254	Thank you. Honored representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament by virtue of Article 40(1). The law on the right to access information as a Commissioner for Information, i.e. an independent body for the protection, monitoring and promotion of the right to access information and the implementation of the Reuse of Information Directive, I submit to the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information which should replace the earlier Rules of Procedure of February 2014. The need to amend the Rules of Procedure was due to the amendment and addition of the Law on the right to access information entered into force in August 2015, requiring two amendments to the Rules of Procedure to provide for appropriate solutions. First of all, given that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information has been adopted by the EU Directive on the reuse of public sector information from 2013. New obligations have been created in respect of the implementation of this Directive, in particular the reporting by the European Commission on a periodic basis every 3 years and the job has been allocated by law to the Commissioner for Information, and this obligation in the Rules of Procedure has therefore to be provided for. As such, other activities related to the implementation of the Directive have been added. The second reason why it requested an amendment to the Rules of Procedure is the fact that the amendments to the laws have been repealed before the provision of Article 66(1). The law on the right to access information which has been carried out by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data during the transitional period since the establishment of Commissioners in October 2013 in matters of general affairs, i.e. the administrative technical character of the Commissioner, which was a good solution in that transitional period, because it has enabled us not to terminate the work. In view of the above, it was necessary to provide for appropriate tasks to be carried out in the Commissioner's office in accordance with the applicable rules on budgetary management, financial management of office operations, archives, human potential management. Therefore, we also had to set up an additional organisational unit for these jobs, but in practice part of these jobs, that is, most of these jobs will be done by subcontracting, i.e. outsourcing, in order to say. Finally, the Rules of Procedure have been carried out in a few places, so, in fact, because of the clarity and quality of the rules, a new Rules of Procedure is adopted which would replace the earlier rules which, apart from these two, are actually almost exactly the same as before. I therefore ask that the Honorable House be confirmed by the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1255	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Dear Representative Robert Podolnjak Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1256	Dear Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, the Committee discussed the Rules of Procedure in question at the first session or attestation. The debate, which was quite extensive, expressed the predominant opinion that it is necessary to support the Commissioner's proposal for information to confirm the Rules of Procedure of Commissioners in order to allow timely and professional implementation of the tasks of Commissioners as an extremely important independent state body and to ensure effective effective control and protection of users of the right to access information. It is also pointed out that additional resources in the state budget will also be needed to implement this Rules of Procedure, since a new design unit or general service is being set up. But it is equally emphasized that this service is not in the function of protecting and promoting the right to access information, which is the fundamental task of the Commissioner for Information set out in the provisions of the law. Most of the votes, however, the Committee has concluded that it proposes to adopt you, i.e. to approve this Rules of Procedure, so that, in accordance with the certificate, a special service for general affairs can be established and possibly with the means provided in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1257	Thank you very much. Does the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media want it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. So that's why I'm opening the debate. The right will be on behalf of the SDSS and reformist representative Milorad Pupovac's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1258	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As we know, Commissioner, or Commissioner for Information from the beginning of work, this is one of the youngest parliamentary institutions that has a particularly important role in the supervision of public authorities, particularly in the field of information and availability of information to citizens and the public. And as we know the beginning was not glorious, the Commissioner began to work but had no assumptions about it, only somewhere last year and before last year managed to secure minimum budget resources so that the Commissioner and her office could function. That was enough for the next step and the next step is the one that we have brought here today to propose to the Parliament the Rules of Procedure, and that Rules of Procedure we of the SDSS Club feel it is necessary to accept because what in some sense actually institutionalises this body established by the Assembly, whose Assembly is the founder. And every institutionalization, so the institutionalization of this body is of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia because we can feel it on our own skin and on the skin of both Parliament and parliamentary representatives we actually suffer and suffer from a lack of institutionalization. We have government bodies, we have governments, but we don't have serious institutions. They are governed by privatluk, where they feel that he who rules is actually an institution and not that he is just an actor within an institution. And in that sense, this is an extremely important document that we are adopting today. Because on this side, doubtless, if the Commissioner has our support, the impact will be on how and how the institutions of the government, the authorities, the government, the representatives will do what is necessary for every democracy, and that is their work wherever there is a legitimate reason to do so publicly. His work everywhere where there is an interest in any of the citizens or any of the groups of citizens or any of the interested to be available to their interest, their right to information, their right to information. Unfortunately, it wasn't the case, and it's still not the case with us. Very often the authorities do not feel the need to respond to citizens’ enquiries and their memos. Very often the authorities are also deaf to the letters of the parliamentary institutions. How many times have we had cases to say the Office of the Public Attorney or once the Ombudsman received no answers from the competent authorities of the ministries on issues of extreme importance to a large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So even interinstitutional communication does not work, let alone, that communication between the institutes established by the Croatian Parliament and the bodies of the authorities or ministries or other bodies of the government would work. And it needs to be changed. And in that sense, the role or role of Commissioners in this case, the Commissioner for Information and its office, is of great importance. Because there is no democracy without the public. And the public can't be unless the information is available to those who can and should have interests in it. They're citizens, they're media, they're other institutions. It can't be that courts, for example, that the state's attorney's office, can't be that other authorities can't get everything they need when information is given. And we know I can't. Or we know it's not simple, we know it's difficult and it's stretching and it's manipulating. Therefore, it is extremely important that we accept this Rules of Procedure because we will actually give, order, send a clear sign or a signal or a clear message that we care about a different culture of information, that we care about a different culture of the functioning of our institutions and behavioural public authorities and representatives of the authorities and that the entry into the body of the public authority... It assumes the culture of the availability of information, the culture of communication so that you must be prepared at any time to any individual, citizen in the country, that any other institution or body of government in particular the Council of the Republic of Croatia should provide information which is of interest to the public or of interest to individuals, their existence, their rights and so far, unfortunately, it has not been the case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for this reason, regardless of what might be the basis of this statute for the state budget to be increased by a certain amount but not specific and not so large that we should view it as a problem, I think it is important that we give support to this draft Rules of Procedure. And that, if necessary, yesterday we discussed this on the Committee on the Constitution, and so if we need to cut budgets and expenses. Let's cut them where we really find that there were extra people, where we have a massive administration and we have it. This is best known by the parties who exercised power and who over the years deposited in the authorities the people who came with them, and the next generation would not touch them at all. Unfortunately, we have to admit it to ourselves. In the general trend of weakness and employment, the parties became employment agencies and we need to be aware and we need to change that. And we have to be aware that then it creates difficulties to develop our institutions like these, because then someone will show up and they'll say, so what's the general service for good purposes? Some members of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure said yesterday we must be careful because this brings new costs. And the old expenses are already here and we haven't solved them, we're choked by the extra administration, we're choked by extra people we may not need. We're probably stifled by extra institutions that we probably don't need, but we need this one just as much as we need the State's Attorney's office. Yeah, but we have a problem. We have a problem when it comes to computerising the State's Attorney's Office, we have a problem when it comes to the basic computerisation of the city's police administration of the City of Zagreb. But we don't have another kind of problem, and that's that we're still suffering from having a bulky state administration structure, that we have a bulky administration and that we're not able to deal with it and get involved. Some of the newly elected colleagues and colleagues here, the new political parties have announced it as their political programme and we will support them and we will be their partners. But let's not stop this thing. I will repeat again without strong functional institutions which will not be managed by individuals who will not know the difference between private and public, between general and individual, between public goods and their own interests. We must begin to draw a clear line. And without the Institute of Public Information and Control and Control, we won't be able to do that. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1259	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1260	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Pupovac, you spoke of the importance of preserving democracy and the public and people realizing that every abuse of public for private purposes leads to the destruction of pillars of democracy. It is precisely the right to access information and openness of public authorities that ensures that society prevents the abuse of public for private purposes and therefore inspired me to point out today, on the basis of what you have said, once again, that thanks to this institution that we have to preserve the right to access information, Croatia has come out of the sphere of corrupt countries in the world and has improved its status on the corruption perception index by 3 points and 11 places, and surely transparency and the right to access information has been one of the reasons for improving that status. And, of course, for nothing to the press and the public, but in this case, journalists are entitled to access information if censorship and especially self-censorship do not dare to write about certain topics, and it seems to me that there is a period ahead of us where many journalists will wonder whether to write about something because of the owners of these media who are once again networked because of their private interests with individuals in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1261	The reply to the replica will be given by the distinguished Pupovac representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1262	Dear counterpart Jovanovic, I agree with you that the Republic of Croatia has in recent years, not only in the past three or four years, but in the past ten years made significant institutional and also significant steps in public sensitivity to the fact that people are not able to distinguish public authorities from private, state-owned from their own. And I agree with you that this body is extremely important for such a culture and such an institutional consciousness to develop as much as possible. And for this reason, you have rightly added to the issue of media and the issue of media and media actors who also without an information commissioner, I would also add NGOs that also without an information commissioner certainly couldn't have done many things so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1263	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1264	My colleague Pupovac, not getting into the scale of the thing you were talking about, but I would touch something that very often we all like to use when it's politically beneficial to us, and it's about the bulky state, about the expensive state, about the great administration of the state. And now we say it's not a problem, this is how it's supposed to be done. However, I am also sure that the President of the Parliament has not placed this item of the agenda so high that he will experience criticism. But I also think that we should leave space for the government to give its testimony on this item of the agenda and that we are not voting on this item of the agenda until we get a government statement. Why? Well, because we have some acts that we brought here, and I think we should just stick to them. We can have a political position that something needs to be established, and you and I have been witnessing it over the past years that we should have. All of them are necessary, without it you can't live, and today it's political rhetoric that what you can't live without should be abolished. Therefore, I think that this point to me is my personal opinion we should discuss and give the new government to give its opinion on this given that it is, regardless of what it is about creating new financial commitments in the state budget. And if we're going to stick to the strict letters of the law, which is the Bill of Budgets and the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, this House cannot make that decision until it gets the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1265	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1266	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Shuker, I agree with the good part of what you have said, but I believe that if I say the following, this body, as well as the defenders, whether the staff or others, will be established by the Croatian Parliament as well as by the Council for Electronic Media, as well as by a whole series of other bodies. And these are the autonomous decisions of the Croatian Parliament which, in cooperation with the Government, can see which assumptions are material for the operation of such bodies. But if we had managed that principle of the government's position, probably the Commissioner for Information wouldn't exist until today. Because there was resistance in the government to that, unfortunately. And the Parliament has its own responsibility and responsibilities which in this case are something different than the Government and stem from the Constitution and democratic will and democratic interests of citizens. So we need to manage this, discuss this, and then see what financial opportunities really are. That's how we discussed it yesterday. If financial opportunities to objective indicators aren't such that the Commissioner can't have a secretary, then fine. But then I call you once again to see if this is really the situation in other bodies that the government is establishing that they have a problem with having a secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1267	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1268	... The institution has extra employees and we need to cut costs there where there are extra employees. [[Specially enabled.]] We need to cut costs based on analysis and how money is spent and for what purposes is spent and how much is spent. We have not only a surplus institution, we have an institution whose activity is not consistent with the general good and national interests. We've got an institution that needs a spot-out. We've got extra employees. We have one institution that hired every employee without a public tender. No employee is employed by competition. And we have an institution where there are extras and individuals, not just people, but individuals. Isn't that an example of the office of the former president? We're spending money walking in Korea. We've got 36 million kunas being given to HAOC, what's it going to be spent in? That films are made that are not focused on Croatia's interests. We have an institution that spends at an employed material cost of $400,000 a year on average while the State Audit Office spends 20 thousand kuna. We have DUUDI who spends 4 times as much material costs per employee of the State Audit Office and the DUDI representative is visiting the HRT instead of resigning, instead of already changing it because it cannot manage state property, there is no reference to state property management, as in many other institutions, managers who can never sit. It is finally time to bring both the number of employees and the cost and those at the head of the institutions together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1269	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1270	Thank you, Mr. President. I fully agree that the issue not only of the number of employees but also of the question of how the funds are spent and the volume of funds spent should be checked for justification, justification and rationality, and in the extreme line of opportunity. It may be both justifiable and rational but the possibilities aren't like that, I agree with you. Better, you'll forgive my expression, but my colleague, Petra, has just taught me that there are some expressions that express things better, so I'm going to say it better than yell it to the people. And I'm afraid we're on a project like that. So we'd better check, take a deep shot, and get the MPs to run it, see how and how much more costs can be reduced. And now that you mention the office of the former president, I think you should be careful with that. It wasn't the will of the former president or we're the only country that has the office of the former president. And that because of the political differences that may exist between the former president and us who are here, we are starting this story as is driven by individual actors in the public. That can't be the reason for checking and asking about the funds or not. It is necessary to see if there is legality and to see if there are really financial opportunities for such a thing. As far as DOUDI is concerned, you know, it's not my place to defend him, because I don't know enough about DUDI's work, but as you know, DUDI's income was 20 million kuna himself. DUDI is no matter how high-quality the list, or register of the total state property that was in total mess. Maybe he's not complete, maybe he's not high-quality, but he took that first step. Someone who comes now will probably have to take another step.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1271	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1272	I would like to thank Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Commissioner, my dear colleagues and colleagues. Before I move on to the debate on the metrics itself, which is the question of the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information, I will try to remind my distinguished colleagues and colleagues of the circumstances under which the Law on the right to access information in the form in which we have today, and the circumstances in which we have adopted the Decision on the separation of the Office of the Commissioner for Information from the then existing Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which has also cared about the right of citizens to information, which was the accession of the EU. Dear colleagues and colleagues after a contract on EU accession has been prepared and after the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia have been completed has been subject to monitoring, a monitoring which sets out ten points where we must show some progress before formal ratification also takes place on EU accession contracts in all 27 Member States. One of those points was the Law on the right to access information. The law on the right to access information and to fulfil the obligations contained in it is not only a question of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia but also the fulfilment of our obligations which we willingly made towards the EU, which I remember more or less all of us wanted to be members. Now let's move on to the Rules of Procedure. This is about a very professionally drawn up document. Besides, given the experience we've had so far with the Commissioner for Information, we didn't expect to see her work before she became one, especially after it became nothing less than a professionally drawn document. The structure of the document and some of its structures are the consequences of the fact that the Croatian Parliament has changed the Law on the right to access information. So it was necessary to create a new document that would respect all these facts. We heard that it was meant to let the government know about this document. In Croatia as well as in any other rule of law, there is a continuity of government in contrast to the revolutionary states. One Parliament respects what the other Parliament has brought before it, one government respects what the other government has brought before it. The Croatian government, the government of the Republic of Croatia, is one and only, whether it is in the first or 13th meeting, as it is today 24.9.2015, gave a positive opinion on the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information. Therefore, the remark of the esteemed colleague Shucker that the government's opinion had to wait and some of his speeches on fiscal responsibility did not stand. Furthermore, the debate on the Committee on the Constitution and only partially correct transposition of it by the esteemed president of that committee and vice president of this home of my dear Professor Podolnjak shows that there is still a day of misunderstanding according to the obligations, according to the tasks, but also the work of the institution of the Commissioner for Information, and I feel the need to say something about this here. The duties of this office are great. I purposely spoke about the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia and the commitments we have made because they are directly reflected in the very structure of this Rules of Procedure. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the Information Commissioner's office have an obligation to communicate directly with the European Commission. The obligation to communicate directly with the European Commission stems from the explicit provisions of the Law on the right to access information. Today someone asks why we need a special financial service within the Commissioner's office? Well, someone can do it on the side. Among other things, colleagues and colleagues of the Commissioner's office are obliged to report to the European Commission on the costs, i.e. the collection of costs. What external accounting office has experience and knowledge to create a document based on the very strict, very formal criteria that the European Commission is looking for. We're talking cost cuts, absolute cost cuts. We're talking about reducing red tape, absolutely reducing red tape. The 12th government of the Republic of Croatia, the government under the chairmanship of Zoran Milanovic, was the first in the 25-year history of free and independent Croatia to reduce the number of employees in the state administration by almost 5%. And we are the last to allow red tape, or administration. But somewhere it's necessary. And why is that necessary? Because the issue of access to information is the constitutional right of all Croatian citizens. It wasn't from the beginning, it wasn't from the moment we wrote the Croatian Constitution, but life and what is thought to be given, what is considered necessary changes of documents, and therefore we entered into our Constitution the right to access information as a constitutional right of Croatian citizens. But that right existed before. Because without access to information, without the right and the ability of citizens to know, without the right and the ability of the media to know there's no freedom of speech and no freedom of the media. And today, I'm afraid it's more important than ever because today I've had the opportunity to see one of the ministers get very heavy accusations, and he's silently asking the question of the citizens. Is it the right of citizens to know it constitutionally? Today we have a situation where journalists are waiting for a meeting of some kind of body in the government to get information on what was said at the meeting. What's that government's reaction? To shut down the press's heating in their rooms. Is that freedom of speech, is that freedom of the media, is that protecting the right of citizens to know? It's not. And that is why today, more than ever, we need an information commissioner's office, we need the right of citizens to know and we need an information commissioner's office that will be able to respond to all the tasks presented to it. That is why the SDP Representatives' Club strongly supports the adoption of this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1273	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She is the first to be respected representative and vice president of the House of Robert Podlonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1274	Thank you. Your esteemed colleague, Grbin, said in his statement that you had received an incorrect report from the board. I must say that this report has been prepared by the professional service, prepared by the secretary of the board without special guidance from me on the basis of the discussion carried out on the board. In the report you received, I did not add a single word, not a single point, the report is credible during the debate and points to arguments that were both on the one hand which points to the importance of the institution and the Commissioner, which most members spoke about but also points to this other dimension that we are talking about, which is rationality and the cost of the additional administration. Therefore, when you say this, bear in mind that this report has been prepared by the professional service and that I have in no way influenced the formulations, although I consider them objective and that they are likely to show the course of the debate at the committee's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1275	Thank you very much. And the honourable representative of Peja Grbin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1276	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Podolnjak, the esteemed Vice President of this House. The written report is not correct but extremely correct. I was talking about how you presented this written report when you spoke on behalf of the board. Because your presentation showed a debate on the board as if the voting ratio was 10:1 that the rules of procedure were not confirmed and not 10:1 to be confirmed. That's all I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1277	The next debate is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1278	I'm listening very carefully to Mr. Grbin's speech, we're talking about freedom of speech, that's why until recently the SKH archives were closed, freedom of speech. Who is talking about the Croatian regime of government, former authorities and authorities before the '90s and current media, which still has members of the UDBA whose files are in Belgrade and whose very appearance in the Croatian media space threatens national security because they are valued. Is this the real Croatian state? I don't think so, that's what we need to discuss. When we talk about the freedom of the media, we have now come upon this Secretary of Defense about a dissident there near Samobor and who is talking about 40,000 companies in Croatia without one employee, about robbery in state companies, about former UDBA personnel who rooted in everything, everyone... Croatian peoples. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whoever's talking about UDBA's accounts abroad and that these people are coming back to us as entrepreneurs and they've been making assassinations on the Croats outside, they're coming back today as a direct foreign investment, nobody's asking these people, but we're dealing with a plank from Mr. Montenegro. The biggest obstacle to democracy is true media in the Croatian state. And until that's fixed, until the illustration is carried out, the lighting inside the media can't people with the same names as... to represent Croatian media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today these people are breast-feeding Croatian investigative journalism, it is a disgrace to the Croatian state. And without lustration in this country, nothing will happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1279	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1280	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I listened to what you said, and I just don't know what to say. I don't know what to say to you because what you brought out is not worthy of this home, it is not worthy of the Croatian Assembly and I will stop and tell you only one thing. You are today a representative like me, you have the authority to propose laws, to propose decisions, to propose anything this House will adopt. I invite you to translate what you have just said into a written document, such as the Law on Lustration and direct it to the Croatian Assembly to discuss it and to clear it up once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1281	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1282	Thank you very much. Here I am, an experienced colleague, Mr. Grbino, on his statement that silence against the media is not good, i.e. He characterised these events that take place in the case of the defence minister but the fact that yesterday during the Parliament, this session when Croatian television is being broadcast, the public television paid by citizens of the Republic of Croatia for direct SDP press was transferred to HTV. So much public interest was that the presses were transmitted, the same case... Probably another political option. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that it is suitable for certain political options that are strong in continuity in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, you say, and that's what I think didn't happen here to end this in what times that the session of this distinguished House is interrupted and being transferred... In other words, we all wanted to join the European Union, but surely we must ask for some opinion when changing the documentation that it is in contracts and obligations, surely that the Croatian people did not want this to be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a state if, as you said, it is necessary for each act to seek some opinion from some European officials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Surely this is a lost part of sovereignty, and those who brought it back then in the accession negotiations they signed certainly did not negotiate well and it is not good for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1283	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1284	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bulj, if the president of your party, Bozo Petrov, today the second vice-president of the Republic of Croatia yesterday decided to speak his press would be transmitted absolutely by all the media in the Republic of Croatia. However, Mr. Petrov decided not to talk yesterday. We're not. We will not be silent in the SDP, and when we speak, I think it is absolutely in the interest of the Croatian public to hear what we have said. So if we said something stupid to laugh at us, if we said something bad to condemn us, but we have the right to be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1285	The next replica of the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1286	Thank you very much. A colleague of the coat of arms, usually without arguments, is pointless, and you have presented one piece of information as a fact without making any argument. You said that in 25 years, no government has reduced the number of employees in public administration and state institutions and in state-owned companies other than this government, and that is exactly 5%. I'd like to ask you, tell me one state or one company where the number of employees was so large four years ago, and today so much that you didn't hire any workers in the company or in that institution or agency or ministry. Just one piece of information for me for one institution, and if I can do it anyway, I'd like it to be the Ministry of Economy or let's say APIS exactly how many employees there were four years ago, how many are there today. How many additional employees in some companies are fired workers, and how many new workers have been employed after this care programme. That would be very interesting, and if you don't know these exact data please find the find of the State Audit Office, so read exactly how many they've hired in these institutions, they've identified exactly the people. Therefore, I would like to discuss only with exact data, and we would be defeated for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1287	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1288	Dear colleague Maric, two minutes, I'm looking fast on the Internet, but two minutes is not enough for me to find. The Minister of Administration, Mr Arsen Bauk, has both verbally and in writing responded to what you have now said in the archives of the Croatian Parliament, which is available on the Internet both to me and to you, and to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the number is clearly stated and the ministries are clearly mentioned. Since you asked me to specify which state bodies, state administrative organisations, institutions and funds associated with the Republic of Croatia have reduced their number of employees, and to reduce the number of employees means in total ratio. If you had a 100 four years ago, you're 80 today. It doesn't matter if you've cut by 25, so let's say that some of them retired and hired five new ones, then for the purposes of this reply to the replica, I'm going to name two such institutions. One is the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. I think it's hundreds of people, and the other institution is the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. For everything else, let me remember not to know so many data but there are Google, there are pages of the Croatian Parliament, you will soon find it. And if you don't, that's why we have an information commissioner, to ensure that those who were obliged to provide you with that information are the same and that's why we let her do her job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1289	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1290	Thank you, Mr. President. I apologize first to my colleagues and colleagues in the Parliament for giving you a line to a member of my club, but I have to, sometimes I have to do it. Namely, you said and I'm afraid it's a black time for democracy in front of us because of everything that's going on and the hostage crisis in the Ban Courts. So you said that the minister was silent. No, he didn't shut up, he threatened. So he said everyone who writes about his case will sue publishers and journalists and some columns are already banned, but all happiness exists on the Internet so we can read them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1291	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, I would ask again for the dignity of this House to stay away from the hard words. The hostage crisis we know is a hostage crisis, it's a matter of terrorism, etc. I'd like us to stay away from those hard words. The next will be a replica of the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I listened very carefully to the presentation of my colleagues, and one part, one part of my colleague's problem, the coat of arms, pointed out well. He mentioned that there was a minister who disobeyed the questions of journalists, who does not answer the questions of the public, who does not provide data regarding queries, whose ministry does not provide any documentation related to what is being asked. And there, counterpart Grbin pointed out well what the former defence minister, Mr. Kotromanovic, did. When asked who paid for a private plane to Lošinj, he's not responding. When a journalist asks him if he can say anything closer about that flight on a private plane, then he asks a reporter, and it's like I'm asking you now who paid you for lunch. For a few weeks, he asked several bile questions from journalists, on several direct questions asked by the minister who was standing in front of the camera, then the minister has no answer. On the issues of journalists from various newsrooms, the ministry responds to the ministry's failure to pay the bill point. So, my colleague Grbin rightly demonstrated in his presentation that the minister should not behave, when we are already talking about the right to access information, and he is right, and I support him here for pointing out this example to former Minister Kotromanovic that anyone who is acting in public duty should not behave and who should provide accurate information.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1293	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1294	I would like to thank Mr. President and thank my colleague Mesic. But first I'll tell you yesterday I paid for lunch myself, today if I see a colleague of Arsen Bauk I'll try to scratch on him, I doubt I'll make it, but it's a good try. And the example you set is very good and the example you cited shows the state's functioning and shows why we need an information commissioner and why we need our agency or why we need our Committee to prevent conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1295	You pick up the microphone, you probably won't get what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1296	My apologies, I got a little carried away. Had there not been a system of right to access information, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia would not have been obliged to answer the request it had been asked. The system's working, and the DOD said we didn't pay. On the basis of this information, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests initiated a procedure. I personally hold, as I believe the majority of both colleagues and Croatian citizens, that the defence minister has made a grave mistake. I believe the Secretary of Defense has made a grave mistake. The defence minister will also be dismissed for this reason, which has already been initiated on the same day that it was launched against the president of the Republic of Croatia for tax evasion, the defence minister and I believe the president of the Republic will be punished for his actions. However, the defence minister has done a lot of good things. He raised the combat preparedness of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to a very high level, and on the other hand here I did not arrive before that defence minister reduced the number of employees in the Ministry of Defence by 812 as his colleague at the Ministry of Interior reduced the number of employees by 665, in finance by 424, in state offices by county by 284 employees etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1297	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1298	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with Article 238 of our Rules of Procedure, you were obliged to give notice to your colleagues about the faceless lie he gave in this House. Mrs Grabar-Kitarovic is not subject to tax evasion proceedings. You as a lawyer and as the former president of our Constitution committee should know that. But it's not good for a colleague of the coat of arms to insult below every level. I think we'll be worth as much as we respect our own institutions of this country. I don't think day-to-day political insult and politics is worth demeaning state institutions. I'd like to ask you nicely to find a document that says so. The way you SDPs interpret it, look at the Income Tax Act, and you'll see it's not that. But I'm just saying, Mr. President, you should have given him a warning. ... colleague Tomić [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1299	Please don't throw away first.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1300	Comrade Tomic, what's the problem? What are you nervous about? Well, there's no need for anxiety in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1301	I'm not going to tell my colleague about the Reb's warning even though he said something that isn't true. It's not good here to tell the eclectic lies and I'm asking you to refrain from it. I'm not quick on warnings like my predecessor, and I don't want to warn people if it's not really necessary, but I ask you all once again for the dignity of this House and for the dignity of state institutions, and the president is a state institution, we can't say things that don't stand, which are not simply true. No matter what freedom of speech, no matter what immunity or anything else we can talk about right now. We would now move on to the next club representative. This is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1302	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Commissioner. Here on behalf of the HDZ Club, we would also like to refer to this proposal by the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information. It has already been pointed out several times, and two committees have thus concluded, both for information, information and media, and for the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and, in accordance with their discussions of the previous day, have adopted this Rules of Procedure which, in fact, aim to establish this new service. We could hear in replicas, it could also be heard in committee discussions, that the only question that may be asked may be an additional explanation, and it would be good for the Commissioner to explain in particular what kind of repercusion there is in further financial costs and related to the Budget of the Republic of Croatia that is being prepared. The fact is that many club representatives, and so did the HDZ Representatives Club, when reports were discussed in 2013, considered and considered that this condition must have certain financial opportunities and that it must have secured financial resources for work. It would have been good if that part had also been accompanied, therefore, by what many colleagues have replicated, so possible financial, financial increases if they had been accompanied by this work material then all doubt, doubts and all else whether they would be going to fill jobs from other state institutions, whether they would be going outsorcing, whether they would be going to new employment and so on. That move would have been resolved. Therefore, it is good to know the MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament a clear answer to that question. What the esteemed colleague Shucker and some other colleagues have set up regarding this financial framework. By preparing for this debate on the Rules of Procedure itself which does not have much to object to, of course, to take a good look at the archive materials of the Croatian Parliament about the discussions on the 2013 and 2014 reports and to see why this Rules of Procedure is too, it is a good thing to codify the work of the upcoming office where we still have virtually 6 thousand bodies that are bonds to provide information and to answer questions to any journalists, any public, any individuals, any associations, and that almost 40% of the latest reports still do not comply with this Law on the right to access information. I have to say that Mrs. Commissioner has had cases in the past that she should have given an opinion that she was saying out of her mind. And that is, for example, the situation di on multiple issues of parliamentary representatives or club representatives in the Croatian Parliament could not be answered by the leading people of individual institutions. For example, Mr. Director of Croatian Radio Television Mr. Radman was pursued, repeatedly asked and questioned for several months about salary levels. That is what the Commissioner gave the opinion that the gentleman was obliged to provide this information, and even when the information came, it was not the final information we wanted to hear because it was not shown in those information. Imagine when you have an institution public, public media service that is obliged to provide accurate information to the public of the Republic of Croatia and the first one does not adhere to the law that your institution cares about. We can write the Rules of Procedure perfectly, we can form two, three or four new services within it, we can also increase the resources for the office but we are already falling on the first obstacle. If each of you colleagues and colleagues are obliged to hand over the property card with the amount of their receipts and stand before the Croatian public then imagine on which exam we fall when months of neither the competent office nor the parliamentary representatives can get an answer to the question of what the salaries of leading structures on Croatian radio and how many annexes have been issued and why. That's very worrying. I have to say that I hope that in the future and it will be better, I believe that it will be better not to experience any more situations for journalists to, say, complain to parliamentarians that some of the ministries that we are adding to the very core of those who should be providing information to either journalists or associations, whether they fully deny these things to the interested public or give such pies, answers as it did to Mr. Kotromanović's Ministry of Defence when someone asks him who paid the way then you get the answer and the MORH didn't pay that trip, who did? Finally, he was questioned by the minister and not by the Ministry of Defence's public relations service. We've had more interesting cases, it's a famous case when Mr. Maras was found in the United States. You know probably this very successful route from San Francisco, Las Vegas and Los Angeles where Mr. Maras allegedly arranged to record co-productions in the Republic of Croatia. A few months have passed and there has yet to be an exact answer as to how much funds from his ministry's budget has been spent on the trip. Regardless of this proposed course Rules of Procedure and regardless of the increasing interest of any citizen, any institutions, any media, any associations for the use of your office services, I am afraid we have not yet achieved the right effect. It is likely that there will be more speeches when we discuss the report, but it will certainly be, but all the documents that we are making any amendments to the law, any rules of procedure should be directed at that very purpose. Accordingly, the HDZ Club will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1303	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Joseph Lek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1304	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mesic, we have as many negative examples as you want in Croatia and yours, on my part and unfortunately in Croatia's democratic past and history. For whatever you want in democratic standards, we in Croatia have negative examples. And there is no problem that you have instructed them, however, but I warn you that one of the more important constitutional obligations of the Croatian Parliament is monitoring the work of the Government and other public officials responsible for the Croatian Parliament and one of these functions is achieved through the Commissioner for Information. She is a representative or that institution is a representative and Croatian Parliament and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If we were to, God forbid we were to discuss greater amounts than 100,000 kunas a year, so if we were to spend a reasonable amount of time in the 130 billion debate on how much the budget would be spent, we would only have to discuss the budget for about 3.4 months. That's not possible. Therefore, the assessment of whether it is necessary to provide organisationally and materially with the Institute and the Information Commissioner's institution should not be disputed in the Croatian Parliament because the institution performs one of the functions of the Croatian Parliament. That is why all the bad examples from the past are actually in favour of strengthening the Commissioner, in favour of strengthening the Commissioner because our goal, as representatives of Croatian citizens, is to allow citizens to control us too because we will have to give them our faith, ask for their trust in some of the next elections, and one way is for the Commissioner to do her job on behalf of us and on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to enable her to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1305	Thank you for answering the line, distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1306	Thank you. I agree with this part that you have read and I agree with you in that section on the importance of the absolute work of the office led by the Commissioner, the Commissioner for Information. The examples I've given are so descriptive and significant that it's why I listed them regardless of the bad examples in history. But these were so significant and so interesting and descriptive that that's why I led them because here's what's going on in the past might be moving in memory, in the memory of an individual and this was very clear. I agree that the Commissioner is in some way if I can interpret well the tool of the Parliament's work in a certain direction. And then you will surely understand the frustration and dissatisfaction of a single parliamentary representative who for months cannot get an answer to his inquiry. So for more than a year, it was known to wait for the official request of the parliamentary representative to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the banal fact of who has the right to the official card and the official car. More than a year. After 4 rushes, so these are situations where we can set up an office, and what I wanted to point out, promise funds, raise employees, but if we fall for such banal situations, then the office can have 200 people. What will rushes write along with those parliamentary deputies who rush to answer their parliamentary question for more than a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1307	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the individual, and the distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1308	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the honourable Commissioner for Information. For a long time in Croatia, the principle that what was secret and what should be kept secret was public and what was left public was hidden and remained secret. We have passed the Law on the right to access information and thus have brought ourselves into line with the European acquis. Also established by the Institute of Commissioners for, as an independent body, the Commissioner for Information whose task is to protect and monitor and promote the Constitution guaranteed the right to access information. The right to access information is a democratic right of citizens and an important means of ensuring the rule of law and good governance of all levels of the body of government. It is also a preventive tool to combat corruption that strengthens the openness of work and on the other hand narrows the scope of abuse of public bodies, incentivising legality and regularity in action. That is why such tasks as Commissioners have been given under the law of the Information Commissioner stand before every repressive apparatus in the fight against corruption. It stands in front of the institutions themselves, especially both above and before the police and before the state's attorney and before the courts. Because when her work is good then and when you invest enough money it's the best way to reduce all those funds for all the other institutions because we also know in medicine, these doctors, there's a lot of you from all parties best know, that prevention is the best way to treat. What, though, happens regularly? When an institution is established by any state, but whose task is to raise funds from citizens there is no dilemma at all that funds are needed, that people are needed, that a building is needed. However, when an institution is established which is in favour of citizens to protect their rights, they face major problems in political and economic terms. Well, there's a question here, and there's an immediate question of savings. When the financial police established all possible tax offices, no one asked the question of savings, but every time it comes to institutions that protect citizens' rights, then there are no funds, and even when we approve the budget for the work of the State's Attorney's office and courts, and especially the Commissioner for Information in our case, the Commissioner for Information. Is that some kind of paradox? No, that's how we expose ourselves to our political will towards these institutions, we've established them just so orderly, and then we don't give them adequate resources. However, thanks to not only to the law but primarily to the personal work and engagement of the commissioner who took office during the past government and such a way of working, it must have contributed to Croatia's international assessment, regardless of which it is not yet highly ranked, but it is no longer a corrupt country. It's a big, big success. Only examples are made by Slovenia, which is as small as 30 employees in Croatia. Their information commissioner has 30 employees. Our Commissioner is 8. The budget of the Slovenian Information Commissioner is 6 and a half million euros. To be honest, of course his job is, or his job is connected, he has powers together, protection of personal data, but still. We do, we've approved a budget of 300,000 kuna. Therefore, by means of these means, whether it is possible for colleagues and colleagues to fulfil all the tasks that the commissioners are in charge, in a legal duty, which is to carry out second-degree proceedings in the cases of access to information, re-use of information, inspection, supervision of law enforcement, establishing international cooperation and cooperation with European Union bodies, and domestic professional cooperation and cooperation with public authorities and the establishment of public and promoting the right to access to information, proposing and implementing programmes for the right to access information, analytical tasks aimed at monitoring the implementation of the law. Is all this possible to do? I also think that the Committee on the Constitution, here with only one vote abstentioned or against, has made it clear that it is necessary to approve the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner in order to operate and achieve in full all the powers and tasks given to it by the Constitution and by law. Also, here is a colleague from Slovenia, the information commissioner has even the power to tap into all classified data. We often also see this from the reports, last report from the Commissioner, how difficult this job was and how difficult it was with its engagement, applying a public test that prevailed over some things that were often covered by a cloak or classified data or some business secrets. How the Government will declare itself precisely in relation to the Rules of Procedure and will we wait for that declaration to be seen and how most will be determined, in fact, will show transparently what she thinks about openness, good governance, the transparency of her actions not only of her own, but also of how she might in her own personal work encourage exactly this way of working and at lower levels. I can truly say here that Croatia is blessed with the very fact that it has such a person Mrs. Ana Maria Musa whose expertise and moral integrity cannot be overshadowed by anyone and the most evil in power or by an ordinary citizen. But what can some do, and we must not let them? I can do that without bringing her in, because I can't question her expertise and moral integrity. I can simply deny her funds. Now we'll see how the ruling one behaves.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1309	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1310	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Antičević Marinović, we have spent a long time in this House and many topics are open. I personally advocate, I do not enter the commissioner's expertise or the decision of the new Croatian government. I accept that the Rules of Procedure should be adopted and that it should definitely be if it is our obligation. It is not good for us to accept and make commitments regarding our EU membership without ensuring the minimum conditions for the action of the people in charge of certain areas. I also believe that this area of the right to access information is quite misused in our country. And that's where I hope you're sharing my opinion because it's going through everything and everything. It has nothing to do with the Commissioner, but it has to do with different groups. So under this right of access to information, it can be concluded that sometimes people end up hiding behind this right neither guilty nor obliged on some front page of the media. Once someone pulls you apart, you no longer have a chance to wash yourself than you are the way it appears. Either black or white. And as far as the funds are concerned, I was against it when most of your government was budgeting. Let's say the Department of Justice lost two years ago without 800 million kuna. How are we going to pursue a legal system that is functional, efficient, all the reforms we've been working for together if there's no funds. If we're going to go to savings, then we need to record the state situation and not take it where we expect it to move. There is no movement if our courtrooms look like stables, if the judges do not have adequate conditions, if every year the state's attorney here at the Croatian Assembly gives his report and says that there is not enough human capacity, that there is not enough information equipment, that the system has become obsolete, that they are looking for new employment and there is no approval. What, then, is our debate if we do not contribute as Parliament to change it? These are the tasks ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1311	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1312	We make such a contribution, and we are obliged to make such a contribution. My colleague, I agree with you wherever there is a right and abuse, and that the Commissioner is facing and making a great deal of effort, taking a lot of time and resources to combat abuse, therefore. But what you last said, I especially agree with that. In fact, this government presents itself as a thrifty government, and at that exact time parallel while it's being declared still that the thrifty government has two government members over, we have the means of insurance as protected persons for 2 more persons and families, what we didn't have before. And here we'd be saving. Therefore, there are some things, institutions and their work where investment in them is saving and this is another waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1313	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1314	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear MPs, here's listening to the presentation on this subject. It seems to me that the pots have been mixed up a little bit. So it turns out that the Patriot coalition has been in power in the past tense because now you've completely turned things upside down. So this is about the introduction of the Commissioner for Information, it's about reaching democratic standards. It certainly strengthens transparency and we absolutely support its work, we want to improve it. However, my predecessors show from the presentation that his work is supported not only by funding but also by respecting the Commissioner for Information. And it is evident from everything that in the past time he has not been respected. Because we had the inability not to receive answers within a year from the state institutions that you were headed to confirm that this institution had no proper respect. Therefore, Commissioners' powers are also supported by actions, not just by finances. In any case, this government has just been established and normally it takes time for both budgets and funds to be laid down. You too have been able to start and serve in the past, and you have not. So let us do the job. It is certain that the rights of the institution of the Information Commissioner will not be reduced but can only grow in the future. In this sense, our club will support this, and abuse the issue of adopting the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Commissioners for Information and Turning Thesis as if we are discussing the HDZ relationship now, therefore it is completely inappropriate. Therefore, deal with why you did not support the work of the Commissioner for Information, and many examples testify.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1315	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1316	You say colleague let us work. We'll let you work and we'll give you support to work. But to return things and make things better, we won't leave you alone because it's our constitutional and legal task, and our political task. We are the ones who have passed the Law on the right to access information, we are the ones who have introduced the institution of the Commissioner for Information. We are the ones who, just during our term of office, see now the results of not our personal assessments of ourselves because we all think that we are more valuable and that we have done more than the objective international organisation Transparency International. Read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1317	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1318	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ingrid, you said in your debate and raised concern for the work of the Commissioner for Information, and I appreciate and support it. And I like that attitude of yours. And I would agree if you hadn't mentioned your ex-government. Because your government's position is contrary to your attitude. Please remember or open an interview with the Commissioner from a time ago when she said during that former government of yours, quote: "I have no basic working conditions. I don't have an official car, we don't have cell phones. Our working conditions are unbearable. We have five employees who have to come to work sick. The institution is on its knees. The title was an institution on its knees. That's your government's concern for the Commissioner, but you probably didn't read it, but I'm glad you're talking like that. When you said the government was your savings, it was stingy to the Commissioner because it was your government that reduced budgets in 2015 in the 2016 projections. 35,000 kunas were projected to be less cost. You know what it means for Commissioner 35,000 kunas less budget funds. So it's disabled in the work. But unfortunately, or you didn't have any influence with your position on the government by exempting your responsibility, but don't mention your government, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1319	The distinguished representative Anticevic-Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1320	Never diminish my responsibility. I felt responsible, and I remember those headlines, and that was exactly what you were saying. And we've been reacting to just us MPs, we've increased a little 10% in the budget of those funds. Now we're going to see, so at the beginning you're calling and going back, this is the government that's progressive, which isn't going to turn back. So even with such funds, these are the results that Croatia no longer belongs to corrupt countries, raised several, to several levels. But you see, dear fellow, as you say so yesterday, the government is wasting electricity, wasting water, spending 14 hours discussing one person, a very simple matter headed by Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic, who taught us lessons here, not understanding at all what parliamentary life is when the government is being debated, that he said that his company was so discussing where it would have come from. Well, now I ask and ask and you ask because you're closer there ask him where his company known would end up if she discussed her employee like that?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1321	I'd just like to pray that we all stick to daily work and what's the point of the agenda. And the next one will be the individual debate of the distinguished representative, Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1322	Your Honor, I think that all of us in this House should unanimously adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information simply because it is a single civilizational Usus, a common good, public interest, strengthening the mechanism and instruments of democracy. Objections that say that it sucks, so, of course, every thing and then democracy costs. But if yesterday we had a debate where we agreed that we should financially support the Homeland War Documentation Centre and its research, the Mostar Office, etc., I finally advocated it, then surely nothing less is worth even operationally far more important is to support the Commissioner for Information and these demands. I would only briefly warn telegraphically of a few points which were brought forth by Commissioners in 2014, which are key problems, which are actually key problems in the functioning of our democracy. The refusal by the public authorities to act under the Law on the right to access information, the lack of knowledge of the law and thus the violation of their provisions, the poor awareness of citizens of their rights and capabilities, the uncoordinated and insufficiently elaborated provisions of other regulations are primarily referred to here as the secrecy of data, business secrets, etc. Croatia quotes very low on all international transparency charts. Here we are a little bit better at corruption, sorry we're not better at corruption than we are at fighting corruption, but this remains a problem. And the conclusion of all that, there's these things numbered I'm just really telegraphing. It says the weak capacity of the Information Commissioner's office is one of the key reasons why more significant shifts in the exercise of the right to access and re-use of information that it still does not have. In other words, the right to access information prevents abuses and every government, each government is naturally prone to manipulation, abuse, corruption. Here we heard here he was right, those who objected to Minister Kotromanovic, but it seems to me that this government is going very talentedly to Montenegro, Karahasanbegovic and the others. So that's something to keep in mind when we talk about it. And also make sure that the Commission, or the Commissioner for Information, is a parliamentary body, if we can say so, and then here we should naturally point to possible problems but the money cannot be an excuse that is a symbolic sum and actually force the Government in its interest to support this proposal of the Rules of Procedure. And you would conclude the words are usually said not someone in power because he's the smartest, but is the smartest because he's in power. Well, then, any authority and that mind of power should be tempered and one of the ways in which that authority is self-willed is exactly the work of the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1323	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected vice president of Robert Podlonjak's home.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1324	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected Commissioner for Information today could be misunderstood that we are discussing the report on the work of the Commissioner for the past year, which is not the case. That report will be discussed very soon. Therefore, today we do not discuss and evaluate the work of the Commissioner in the past period and there have been such discussions. Today is the subject of confirmation of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, given that you have received a report in which you saw so from a colleague of the coat of arms that I was abstention at the board's session and that the vast majority or actually all the other members voted for confirmation allow me to tell you something why I was abstentioned. First of all, it's an institution I find extremely important. If you look just a little bit by googl around the right to access information you will see that I have been very much in favour of setting up the institution first for many years, that I have exhibited very much, written scientific papers and that I am one of those who are probably in the group very much responsible for what this institution was founded and I absolutely support it extremely, and I believe that it is very important in strengthening democracy and transparency in Croatian society. So it's absolutely undeniable and I don't think there's anyone in this House who's not going to advocate for that institution that's proven and in this short time as it works, so just over two years. I personally, the right to access information used extremely often locally and as a city councilman, I think for a time I was the person who used the most access to information from anyone else in my city. And this is especially for the pursuit of information that was secret, protected from various intellectual property rights, business secrets, etc.... I was often forced to sue individuals who did not want to disclose certain information. And it's well-known. Therefore, when we talk about the Commissioner and the Institute of the Rights of Access to Information, it is absolutely not disputed that we are all for that institution and for it to strengthen. However, it was a debate. We have a new Rules of Procedure that only comes to us a year after the Parliament has confirmed its previous Rules of Procedure. What changed in a year? Certain amendments to the law but in terms of strengthening certain administrative powers of the office. What's most important in the Information Commissioner's office is two services. Services related to strengthening, protecting the right to access information and the part relating to strengthening the capacity of all information officers, strengthening the institution in all units of local and regional (regional) self-government. And in that part, the Commissioner's office needs to be strengthened in particular. It is clear that overnight this office could not be strengthened when you create an institution actually from nothing that has no employees, which has no administrative capacity, of course it is in a situation where you have to save in the budget very hard. I certainly would not want to accuse the earlier government that, in the end, it is also responsible for the former assembly of the Parliament which founded the institution of Commissioners and which has gradually moved towards strengthening the institution. Of course, she could not have fully formed the service, that today she certainly does not have the prescribed number of servants. We would especially like to have more officers in the office in charge of strengthening the right to access information, especially those inspectors dealing with the protection of rights and indirect inspection. Probably all those places aren't filled. I suppose only somewhere in 2015 are the first inspectors employed because lastly, I have not yet had a report available for 2014 of these inspectors in the service. At this point, there is not even a chosen two service leaders who have been formed so far. However, this proposal by the Rules of Procedure, which should be laid down in my opinion, is not about strengthening the institution of the Information Commissioner in that essential sense of protecting the right to access information. The establishment of a general service does not, in my opinion, make a significant contribution. In the conditions of very limited resources in the state budget, I felt it was more important to strengthen those other two services that were primarily formed to strengthen the protection of the right to access information. In my view, this would primarily mean filling all the places of inspectors that will strengthen that institute on the ground, which will carry out inspection surveillance, which, if necessary and sanctioning those bodies of those authorities which, in a certain sense, do not comply with the law. Unfortunately, there are still those who do not even deliver their reports and that the part relating to general affairs is less important. I think that on the Committee on the Constitution, the Commissioner told us that at this point, there is not even a person in the position of the head of the monitoring and promotion of the right to access information. So one of those two services that are currently set up. I think that should be a priority. And if you have limited budget resources then it would be more important to provide funds for that person, the head of that service, for some additional inspectors, and it would be less important to set up a service for general jobs. That's the only thing we're talking about when it comes to this Rules of Procedure and its confirmation. So I would if I were in a position earlier to fill in the position of the head of the monitoring and promotion of the right to access information rather than set up a service for general affairs and appoint the head of the service and the persons who will work for me in financial and accounting affairs. These jobs are still being done, they have to be done because we have a body of public authority. But these jobs are now running a certain accounting and accounting service. For a small number of officials, someone mentioned eight, I think the commissioner's board said there were eleven. For this small number of people, you do not need to have a special accounting service. These jobs are still being done, but through a certain service. This is the only difference between us on the board not about the need of the institution, the quality of work and the general right to access information. Only my debate went in the direction of strengthening these crucial aspects of the protection of the right to access information, this which actually makes cor business, and that it is absolutely unnecessary to set up a service that will carry out financial and bookkeeping tasks now performed by a special service. Even before the government intended, there was no need in certain sectors to form their own services, but as you said at the time that they could be outsourced. There's actually a similar example here for a small office that has a dozen employees. That's the only thing that makes us different, and that's the only thing that divides us into confirming this Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1325	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Andrija Mikulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1326	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so I hold that before we discuss the right to access information, I think it is important to say what information is. Therefore, that is one information or record or set of documents that have bodies with public authority. But anyway, no matter what type of information it was, that information must be publicly available from those bodies of public authority, in the units of local administration and self-government, the authorities of the state administration. I would say and regardless of any information we don't have to ask for but they must be publicly and transparently published on the pages of each of these bodies. The basic prerequisite for mutual communication is accurate reporting and information delivery. Consistency and continuity in informing all users should be a basic principle, and the Constitution guarantees us the right to access information. I must say, here in the City Assembly as a representative of the city of Zagreb I can tell you that things work very well and well. So, within all scheduled deadlines, the requested information is being delivered to us. I'm just saying this as a principle. But I'd like to ask you, will this year finally withdraw funds from the funds on this subject? To what purpose will we spend public money? We've had, and we've heard from previous discussions when we ask who's paying certain flights to the government today, there's no answer for ministers. Well, for the sake of the principle that I stand for, and the public and the transparency of information, all those who seek it, I mean, of course, citizens, that information would have to be obtained. It's not good that these communication channels are breaking up, so as soon as you're looking for an answer, you have a question for something, and there's no answer. Then people are prone to a variety of thinking, a variety of different conclusions that may ultimately not stand every time, but the basic principle is openness, transparency as far as information is concerned. So it should be without any avoidance, difficulty and blocking access to any information. We can discuss legal responsibility, but first of all we have a moral obligation to tell the part of the interested user and give him information. In previous discussions, it was said that someone once stood up for this office to be more funds in the budget. So I'll tell you this office today counts, it's scheduled by systematizing 22 employees, it counts 8 if that information is correct. Budget million and 300 grand or two million, okay. How many predecessors cared about this part and how important it was to them that they reduced the budget for 400 kuna in 2015. The projection in 2016 is 35,000 kunas less, that I don't speak 2017 probably but it won't be possible for someone's happiness, someone's grief to come true. It's probably going off, 'cause that's not gonna happen and it can't be allowed. Some said that, some colleagues respected that the black time was coming for the media. No, exactly the opposite. The black time for the media is over. There comes an open, free, if you really want a sunny democratic atmosphere that will certainly be better and better quality than it was in terms of the media. On how and how it worked from those on the budget and should have provided information on request. I think 20 controls have been carried out so far that some measures have been taken. And of course, as previously said, I personally as well as the club will support this proposal because I think it is good, quality and that it should be absolutely supported for the sake of timely and professional performance. In particular, as an independent body in order to effectively protect users of the right to access information.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1327	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleagues who have responded to the replica, I only remind once again the subject of this point is to confirm the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information. The replica was first reported by distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1328	In order to have some service, you must have the means for that service. I think that this Rules of Procedure should be adopted in the first place for our sake, and not for the EU. You said you'd cut the funding, and you didn't say how much. This office spends about 2 million kunas a year. He's got eight regular employees, right? The purpose of this Rules of Procedure is to expand the work or activity of the entire Republic of Croatia to protect citizens from abuse of the position of the authorities of individual government bodies, individual political entities and ultimately solve the problem of corruption. These latest reports from Europe do not include corrupt countries. It also contributes to the establishment of this institution and its activity. In order for it to be able to do so, it must have the means to do so. Try and find in the new budget a means of working the institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1329	The distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1330	My dear colleague, I don't think you heard what I was saying. I said here that you cut the funds for 2015. The projections for 2016 and 2017 look at what they are to you, the fat minuses compared to what they were. Well, you had a chance and a time to fix it all. Why didn't you do it? So we all know the purpose of the right to access information. It's just a question of whether it's been done or not. According to the records and the data we got, I said 20 surveillances were done with measures. I don't know if we understand what that means. You had a colleague, Mesic, who told you that for over a year there was a response to the right to access information from individual institutions. Now I'm asking you, was that really good? Definitely not. And we will certainly try never to do so again than to give that information to those who ask for it within the legal time limits.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1331	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1332	My dear colleague, at one point, you said that the sun is coming and beautiful days are coming. Unfortunately, however, given these Black clouds that have already been over us for two days, I'm afraid we're not all going to tear each other apart. But slowly, we'll see. But I didn't answer for it. I answered because you and a lot of predecessors inspired me at one point because when we talk about the availability of data and transparency somehow we all stay here in Zagreb and at 20 ministries. No one has ever thought at least in the debates that this is a very large, complex and complicated state in which we have over if I am not mistaken 500 units of local administration and self-government that are very much and absolutely in the control of our commissioner and the office that we are talking about, completely. In the same way as all the ministries. The various examples presented here in one way or another, which were in principle a kind of political bickering on the one hand and on the other, were to show how it works in Zagreb. But I assure you that in the central state of the ministries and all these bodies in Zagreb things about the right to access information still and well stand for what it all looks like together in the rest of the country. In doing so, I would not want to look bad and say that someone systematically obstructs law enforcement in one way or another, although of course there are such things. I think it is a key problem in the education of people who run our local administrations and self-government across the country and that it is necessary, and this is my proposal for you for the next year and for the next term of office, to see in some way through European funds or however public administration that it is really working on education of leading members, management people in the system of local administration and self-government to understand the importance and importance of implementing this law and to understand in principle how important it is for citizens to receive information in due time. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1333	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1334	When you mention the clouds, it's a good thing they're broken and they're not the ones they've been for the past four years anymore. That's what the Croatian people said. You've got four years, you're gonna be training, you're here, so if you're gonna be better, somebody's gonna recognize you. I suggest you don't act like you did because Prime Minister Oreshkovic told you how he feels about your way of working. It's on the first part, if you knew something you'd show. And as for this second act, I'm sorry, I'm going to speak up another time, obviously you're hearing weaker on this side. The third sentence in my presentation was the unit of local administration and self-government. If you mean the 560, and otherwise 6 thousand debtors you have who must and belong to that part to give access, they are obliged to give information. I've told you before, so support to my colleague, support to my office, and I'm sure he'll be able to show you in the future how it's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1335	A fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1336	Dear Mr President, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a 15-minute recess regarding Mr Croatian Defence Minister Mr Montenegro with the behaviour of the Government and the Prime Minister in this case, and with the fact that this will require, that is to say, a procedure of voting on the trust of the Croatian government member concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1337	Okay. You agree with that, it's a matter of agreement, of course you have the right to do it right now, to finish these replicas, and maybe we still have the replicas, so let's get it over with. You got it. Okay. The next replica is distinguished representatives of Karoline Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1338	Thank you, Mr. President. I will do the same about this weather forecast that my colleague Mikulić was talking about. So I was inspired by this sunny weather that you tell my colleague Mikulic is now coming through the new HDZ government, the MOST and their partners. You as chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media certainly know, I hope you know, I am convinced that the policy, the editorial policy of the media does not lead to the Croatian Parliament, is not being held in the centres of political parties even though we witnessed at the time of your former HDZ president Sanader's former government that the spokesman of the then HDZ called and appeared in actual talk shows on Croatian television and doctored and tried to actually direct the course of the debate. But I don't want to talk about it right now. What it looks like is your sunny time or the sunny time for the media and for us other citizens and citizens who don't share your worldview we saw the other day when the notorious Bujanec that our esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament of the Croatian Parliament of Tepeš actually said I would occupy the Agency for Electronic Media as an independent regulatory body and he performed a performance that I don't know how to call but a direct attack on freedom of the media, on freedom of speech and on the institutions of the Republic. Is that your policy, Mr. Mikulic? Is your policy what we have seen already trying to do, and that is that they are already trying to put pressure on Mr. Hasanbegovic's new culture minister, by Mrs. Željka Markic, who appeared here on behalf of the family and the other day to send an open letter to Mr. Hasanbegovic, in which he was told that I was actually ordering whom, in the next period, the Ministry of Culture when it comes to non-profit media to provide financial support and in which he is actually instructing him how to lead this cultural inu politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1339	Thank you, dear colleague Leakovic. Not only have you exceeded significant time, but you're talking about a subject that has absolutely nothing to do with this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1340	You could've interrupted me, Mr. President, you didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1341	Now I've interrupted you, and I suggest you speak of something that has nothing to do with this subject at all. I don't know if he wants to answer that, distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1342	Dear colleagues, editorial policy is not our goal as it was for you in your past term and for your party chief. I suggest we discuss content, but you keep going back to something that's not content. You may have some message that you need to go somewhere else and discuss it. I wouldn't, I don't think it's time or place to talk about a fellow Bujanco here. But since you are already inviting me to know if I know what the committee I am chairing is doing, then I will instruct you to have written what the committee is doing, and then you would not ask such a question because you would know what level of problem the Croatian Parliament and MPs should deal with it. And I will remind you and recommend to you when it comes to the media to remember your former prime minister who is no longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1343	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1344	You say fellow Mikulić doesn't come dark times in the media, but dark times have passed, dawns of a new day, new light, new sun with your government. Already, colleague Leakovic tried to explain to you that the editorial policy in certain media is not leading in either the Parliament or the Government, it does not regulate them, it does not define them politics, but politics can determine something else, it can cause the atmosphere of fear, it can cause the atmosphere of the lynch and thus block both the work of the media and the work of agencies such as the Council for Electronic Media when 5,000 noises led by the new vice president of our Parliament carried out the collective rape of Mrs Mirjana Rakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1345	I'd warn you if you didn't use words like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1346	You won't interrupt me, I answer, I replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1347	I ask you nicely not to use such words in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1348	I'll use the words my constituents authorized me to use, not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1349	No, you won't use words like that in this House. I warn you not to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1350	Testimony, which can cause this terror of fear, this threat is your case Sanja Modric whose column is censored in the New List. And why is she censored? She writes about the banana prime minister in the banana state and says: "His right and left hand Karamarko and Petrov could have made his job somewhat easier by pushing only decent people without extremist receivers and noisers. They could have, but they didn't.". Well, of course the New List, the editor didn't dare write this down. Why? Because he feared these 5,000 people of yours would come before him. That's how the newspapers are arranged, that's how the editorial policy is determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1351	So, fellow Stazic, first of all, you used words that were inappropriate. Second, you as a longtime member of this House know very well that you have violated Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of this House speak of a subject that was not at all now. It's in the replica of anything you don't talk about the 10th thing. So I'm asking you not to do it in the future. Because it had nothing to do with it but I don't know if he wants to answer the honourable representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1352	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic, I said on several occasions, I'll say it a little louder, thank God the dark times are over, and that's where we'll all agree. So here is this way and this way of your communication speaks of you personally and not of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I repeat, whoever was talking about editorial policy here, so it was up to you yesterday at Iblero's Square, gentlemen. But you'll have to get used to that model not working anymore. And don't God ever come back. You're always going back in time. So at the session when the discussion of the Croatian government, about supporting Croatian ministers, you called out, individuals called representatives of the Croatian Parliament to fascists. Is that the freedom of speech you're talking about? Is that the part you've been talking about all along, and the part you stand for? Well, you wanted with your discussions, gentlemen... I'm asking you, President of the Parliament, if you can protect me from these throws because I don't think this is a level. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1353	First of all, I'm praying that we don't throw ourselves off the bench and, secondly, stick to the subject. Unfortunately, it fits past the subject because the replica was completely past the subject. I'm asking you in the future to stick to all the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1354	Two sentences We advocate the flow of absolute information, of transparent work, and this is not the style and the way I want to communicate. [[The President's incursion: Here you go.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1355	Thank you very much. But we will now return after this break and these statements of certain clubs to what we have been dealing with, although we seem to be dealing with everything more than really by confirming the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information, so now will have the opportunity to say something in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1357	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here we have today had opportunities to hear from fellow MPs communicating with each other Croatian institutions. I must say that I also came across the first such information during the campaign president when, in time after one meeting, President Josipovic said that his office on one point we were dealing with had asked for the ministry's opinion and had never received it. I couldn't believe at the time that it was possible for one institution, a very high, member of the government, not to respond to another institution of the Office of the President of the State. However, after hearing today from fellow Pupovac and other colleagues here that other institutions in this country such as the Attorney's Office or such as HRT or some third institution, and above all this applies to institutions at local level, municipal firms, cities, municipalities are not responding to citizens' questions. It clearly shows that there are, in fact, the greatest violations of the right to access information. What damage was done as economically, what health, how many people had major health problems and because of the nervous system and heart condition because the institutions in Croatia had failed. Many and who will make up for this damage, and when? I'll tell you a personal experience. When the police were about to hand me a memo, it was not in any way surprising to me, since I had many dealings with them in my activist activities. And 9, 10 times before I gave them all my generals, address, phone number, e-mail, and so on. But it's the tenth time, they couldn't find me and I ask you there at the station I guess he was the boss of the shift as if you couldn't get to my number, here you go to Google you'll find him in a few seconds, I gave it to you 10 times before at 10 other stations, you can find him. All the journalists in Croatia have it, how come you couldn't find it? He tells me, and we don't exchange information with other police stations. I was in shock, I couldn't believe it. That's what I'm saying to him. That's why criminals are running away from you. He fought me back, so they don't just run away because of it. That's what made me sick. Ever since I heard the experiences others in the Croatian Parliament have had, institutions do not respond to each other. Obviously, there are Pharaohs in some institutions, and these are mentioned here by the institutions and many others, the Pharaohs who think they are God-given and that they do not have to obey the laws and that with the money they are given they can do whatever they want and that they do not respond to anyone. I therefore also call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the members of this House and the entire Croatian public to take good care of who they give money to and for what they give money for, because it is their money first and foremost. That money must not end up in the hands of these Pharaohs I mentioned. Everything I've said doesn't apply to this office that we're discussing today and to the Rules of Procedure. In principle, the Living Wall will also support this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1358	Thank you very much. And the final debate is that of the distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1359	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Commissioner, I envy you. I envy you because I see you here today getting full support from both sides. At least there's talk about the agenda point of President-in-Office's horror. I haven't heard one word about your proposed Rules of Procedure. It's mostly about everything else. The president warns us to get back on the subject from time to time, as far as we can see without success. The debate has passed, so off topic. The parliamentary majority warns that the former government has been very stingy towards your office, not rational but just stingy. That word was used and you don't have enough resources. We expect a budget soon. I will keep an eye on what this new government will propose for your office, and if there is no significant increase in funds, I will remind my colleague Mikulić of today's debate, as well as all HDZ colleagues. The majority also warns that the former government ministers failed to fulfil their obligation and did not give information to the public as provided by the law. I don't mean to defend them, I think it's inadmissible. I think they should have been punished, because breaking the law is absolutely unacceptable. On the other hand, my colleague, Pedja Grbin, attacked the president completely outside the topic, President Grabar-Kitarovic, that she had taxed. I don't intend to defend Peja Grbin, but I don't intend to defend the president. I'll just read if you'll allow me to quote Madam President. She says, "I want you to have money," and it's about the campaign money she normally sent to the account, she paid off the HDZ. "I want these money to go to charity, to be donated to the needy." She explained Grabar Kitarovic and continued "if they were paid from my account, 40% of income tax would be paid." He's finished reading. So it wasn't 40% of the income tax because the money wasn't paid from the president's account, it was transferred to the HDZ account. So, no income tax is paid as the law provides, so the tax has been taxed. It's also said that you're not teamed up enough, that you have the right to 22 employees, and you only have eight. I'm monitoring the government's work today, a government session through the portal, almost live surveillance. There is no minister who has not announced new employment at today's cabinet session, there is no minister. I wonder how the old government could with fewer officials, and she could, and this new one can't, but they think she's hiring people. I don't know if they'll all be from Metkovic or maybe someone else will be. But ministers are looking for employment. Take advantage of this possibility, Mrs. Musa, take this opportunity, so if I may seek out the ministers of new employment, so can you. You certainly need them more than they do. This new employment policy is fully in line with the promised reforms on the reduction of the state administration that it has promised, too. It's a patriotic coalition, but it's also a MOST. I expect that those promises will be fulfilled as well as a statement certified by a public notary. What may be most important in this debate, and in this debate over the agenda point, no Commissioner has questioned any point, not a single point in your intended Rules of Procedure, which means that this Rules of Procedure is good because if it were not good, someone would already turn to it. And that may be a strong incentive for you to continue your work. And even when your resources are increased and you're allowed to hire all 22 people you're supposed to be working on will be great for you. I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1360	Thank you very much. We have one replica, two pardons, three replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1361	Comrade Stazic, it is your right to say as counsel as you wish. But you have no right to be false. You don't have the right as a representative who took an oath here to say someone's tax evasion. You simply don't have the right to do that because if something was done in public, then it's no secret. The second thing, if that's true what you're saying it's a transaction done, it's all transferred to associations and the IRS had to react. You have a report from the State Audit who reviewed the business of political parties, the opinion on the financial business of the HDZ is unconditional. But what I would like to say is that Mrs Grabar-Kitarovic gave all the money she received from the state budget to those who needed it. Unlike your candidate who didn't do it. But I'm going to ask you my best friend, Stazic, for the dignity of this High House, not to say anything that is not true. It's not true that someone's hidden something, it's simply not true. Because the transaction was public. Therefore, if the Tax Administration considers that a tax has to be paid and the tax is charged. And the other thing, you often sell here moral jokes, don't you think that this money was given to those who really needed it and needed it? Another thing if you don't think that's how it's supposed to work we're going to change the law and define how presidential candidates who, after all, Mrs Grabar-Kitarovic was HDZ candidate and I don't see what's controversial about it? Well, you've made such a mess as you are now, but the institutions of the state have done nothing. And that means it's not true. That you were unfortunately telling the lie not to say the hard word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1362	The honourable representative Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1363	I'm not running any haranga against anyone. I quoted what Mrs. President said here. So I'll say it again: "I want these money to go to humanitarian purposes, to be donated to the needy," Grabar-Kitarovic explained and continued: "If they had been paid from my account, 40% of the income tax would have been paid." She didn't want to pay 40% of the income tax, she didn't want the money to go to the state budget where it belongs, so she transferred the money to the HDZ account. Which might also not have been disputed if HDZ had decided further on them. But she didn't, she made up her mind as if they were in her account. ... How do I know that? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I know that from the public because she boasted. Whenever she gave the money somewhere, she said here's the money. So this is about one act of this charity, so the president is a benefactor at a foreign expense, at the expense of the state. It's like the state doesn't know who they need, like the state wouldn't know how to deploy that money. So that's one patriotism in HDZ's way, and that's that every possible way of trying to avoid paying taxes. Well, that's the same thing we're asking for Blacky to change, same thing. A man will not pay taxes to the state he loves, which he loves. And the president won't pay taxes on the income of the state he's leading, which is the president. It is a unique case in the world, but Croatia is unique in the world because it has HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1364	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1365	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Stazić and you and I know very well that the president did nothing illegal in the process and that he is not a tax evasioner. That's clear. It's now done for you to incriminate the president in a certain way. By sticking to your logic, it would be concluded that by you, tax evasion is a person who has 5 children because he pays less taxes and less income tax than he who doesn't have any children. It's about sticking to your logic at the same level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1366	The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1367	It has nothing to do with a person who has five children. Your comparison is completely inappropriate. But it would be such an appropriate comparison, do you think that some SDP guy who has to pay some income tax because he makes income to avoid paying that tax would pay the SDP. Because it was made by the president, nothing else. And let's imagine that not all members of the SDP pay income tax but to pay that money to the SDP, that's how all HDZ members act, that's how all HNS members do it. Would that be justified for you? Look, for me, it's kind of freakish. And even though it's not like you're defending it, it's kind of nakaradic. So what would happen if 40% of the income tax was paid if the law ordered it? So what would happen? Well, it's expected from the president, it's expected. Well, I'm not sorry she split that money, I'm not sorry. She could have even asked for a change, she couldn't, but she could have asked you to ask me to amend the law. We could have done that, too. But you can't, if the law says you have to pay 40% on income tax so I can transfer that money to the party and avoid it. But you defend it, you approve, the SDP won't act like it, we won't do it, and if some SDP guy did it, I'd attack him in this House, to avoid paying income taxes. But the difference between SDP and HDZ is therefore patriotism, as I said, patriotism in HDZ's way, so you love the state to pay her taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1368	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was brought up by a respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1369	Article 237 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the This is one of the equative examples when a representative in the Croatian Parliament lies about the laws. So Mr. Stazic repeated several times something that is not true. Because if this were what he says, then state institutions would react. However, she has a lie if you repeat it a hundred times becomes true, but you can repeat a thousand times as far as Madame President is concerned, it won't become true, so try as hard as you want. And where did you spend your money, where did your candidate spend his money?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1370	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1371	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I would like to ask you one thing in the future, to make it impossible for your colleague Shucker to give a speech after his injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1372	What article was injured? Hey, buddy, let's go make a deal. I am aware that this is the place of political competition, which is why Parliament exists, but let's try to be parliamentary. This whole discussion today, 95%, was not about the subject at all. Unfortunately, there have been truths here that we all know are false, talk about all sorts of topics except the subject to be spoken of. Let us not be surprised, then, when the public sees us as they see us. Political competition is the purpose of the Parliament, but political competition at a certain level and where it is appropriate both there and on issues under discussion. We've been talking all morning about things that have nothing to do with it or 95% have nothing to do with the confirmation of the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information. I am truly asking you for your sake, for all of us to keep to the integrity of the Parliament, not to speak here clearly of the truth and to stick to the subject. Thank you very much. There's still a colleague named Bilaver. Here's to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with you that we should talk about topics that are on the agenda, but I must answer the actual pranks that are coming from Mr. Stazic. Mr. Stazic is obviously a problem for you that the President of the Republic of Croatia is fulfilling its promise from an election campaign where she will remind you that all the money she will receive from the state will be given for humanitarian purposes. It seems to you that the pre-election promises are being fulfilled because you are not particularly in the last term used to keeping it. I remind you the money was given, the president could have had the money she wanted, but she decided to give the entire amount, donate to associations, humanitarian associations dealing with children, needs and others, which are also very important for mentioning territorially distributed throughout the Republic. So I remind you not to be false, but to simply accept that we now have a president and we will also have a government that keeps its promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1374	The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1375	I don't know if you have any problems understanding what you're told? 'Cause look, I don't mind if the president distributes it to whoever she thinks she should, and she could have done it, and when she promised, she should have done it, but from her tax account. You're saying she kept her promise, so she split it, and then she didn't split it, she didn't share it, she split it to HDZ, and then, from the HDZ account, it was further made necessary. Well, that's the catch, so how do you not understand? Well, that's a nine-year-old kid who gets it. It's not the same if it shares it with its account or the HDZ account. When dividing from his account he must pay taxes like any other citizen, when he shares with the HDZ account he does not have to pay taxes. She took advantage of that possibility not to pay her taxes. So because it's hard to figure it out? Read the laws again, read what the president said. I have no intention of attacking her, which I don't care what she does. I'm just warning that this is the way your patriotism doesn't pay what needs to be paid to the state. I don't know how many more HDZs. But well everyone loves the country in their own way, everyone loves it in their own way. Someone loves her so she lives fair enough to pay the state taxes, and someone loves her so she doesn't pay. What do I do to him, I can't judge someone's way of love. Love is individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1376	After all that was said, Dr Anamari Musa, Commissioner for Information, was the least talked about today, and it was obvious that many were completely irrelevant to what should be done and how the Office of Commissioners for Information should be done. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1377	I thank you, so here's a quick look at some of the things that were brought out in the debate. I am pleased that so many MPs have participated, and I hope that it will be an opportunity for us to submit our annual report to discuss the subject of the right to access information again. The basic question that has been raised about this Rules of Procedure is whether it is really necessary to set up a service for general affairs, it seems to me that there were most stories about it. And do you know what that's going to have to do with the budget? Well, I'd just say three key things about that question. It is, above all, necessary to establish a service for general affairs because every body of state administration, every body and public authority, every organisation in the public sector should meet the obligations of the Budget Act, fiscal responsibility, civil servants, archival material, archives, office business etc., etc., that I do not now, no matter how or whether they are carried out. These jobs are also done now that each of the employees has some work to do. Of course, it's not in accordance with the law. Since two years here we have been struggling with the organization of offices and the financing of offices, we are now trying to correct it with the help of this body that I am returning to the question of the law has passed the Law on the right to access information. It has previously adopted the Constitution and constitutional provision which has laid down the right to access information as the Constitution guaranteed the right and also brings the same state budget. So on that side, I don't see any problems, given that the Rules of Procedure are organisational regulations, the procedural regulation is not, or the act is not a budget regulation. When the budget is discussed, of course depending on the possibilities, I hope this time more, it will be possible to meet all those obligations that they write in the law and which they write in that same Rules of Procedure. So that's what the law requires. Another thing that seems to me to worry you more, does this mean that once the Rules of Procedure is adopted and confirmed in this House and published in the National Journal, it means that the Commissioner will push herself to spend funds from the state budget and hire her to think that she has everything that every institution has. Well, the Commissioner for Information has been from the first day of her work and with her mission that she has tried, i.e. I tried to make the office work effectively and in accordance with the principles of excellence and I think I did it within what was possible, realistically possible. There are currently eight people employed in the office, all of which are high-level professional equipment from the two with the master's. We don't have a secretary, we don't have a car, we don't have a driver, we don't have other government officials except me, unlike all the other institutions. And even if that service were to be established in half the number that is predicted, which is 8, because it is in accordance with the Internal Design Principles Regulation and I cannot establish a service without or another type of organisational unit because it simply says in the regulations, we have to respect them, half of that service would have a salary as one state official average, not to appoint them. So I don't think this is really about the key issue. And what's key to the budget is only positive. It is pointed out here that the role of Commissioner for Information Prevention is. You wouldn't believe it, and you don't even know it because we can't report to the public every day and bury media space with press conferences, how many public authorities just check in with us, before someone asks them if they're obliged to give up any documents and we do it without procedures and we don't seduce into any statistics etc.. And every day there's a lot going on and there's a lot of things that everybody who uses this institute sees, and unfortunately there's still a little bit of them because we don't have the opportunity for people or the means to inform the public so much because it costs, is it, to publish a press release, to cost it, to make it cost it, to organize a price conference, all that costs. So when everyone knows they have to answer and the MPs have to answer, then our mission will be accomplished and on that side we are working on it and we hope to have your help in doing so. However, what is even more important is that we are obliged to implement the European Union Directive. I think it is not yet more important, it is equally important to allow all the information that the public sector has and owns to be used for economic development. So the role of this office is not only to give citizens their right to information which is the number one role, the role is to say the value that is somehow not used in the public sector to those who know about it and that is the private sector primarily IT industry to make something useful from it. From apps to smartphones, computer solutions to various, etc., so that in some ways it contributes. So our role is to create preconditions, to contribute and that is the implications of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1378	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the next point. Of course, we will conclude the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met. And now we continue to decide on the points. So we have the first Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information, the confirmation of that Rules of Procedure. The applicant for the Rules of Procedure is the Commissioner for Information, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting in favour of the decision to approve the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information. Please vote. The vote is over. 137 votes for, no abstentions, no objection. It's a great universe, so we have found that the decision taken unanimously is in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1380	And we'll move on to the next point. These are actually four sub-points: -a/ Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds d.d.; b/ Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Erste d.o.o. the management company of compulsory and voluntary pension funds.; c/ Report on the work of the AZ Mandatory Pension Funds for 2014. A year.; d/ Report on the work of PBZ pension funds Croatia Insurance; Peace funds submitted reports pursuant to Article 150. Mandatory pension fund law. Do the representatives of the applicant wish to further explain the reports? Yeah. The first will be Damir Grbavac, the esteemed president of the Raiffeissen Pension Society administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1381	Dear President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I am honored to be able to address this House of the High because we are doing it for the first time under the new law. As my presentation is first on the agenda I will say first something in general about the business of pension funds in 2014 and in general so that we do not repeat ourselves in our exhibitions with more or less the same problem. The presentation of these reports is a little late but simply not our fault, and perhaps it is good to get familiar with this problem at the beginning of the new assembly. But soon our report will be here for 2015, so it's due in two months. The debate will probably be a little early, I hope this time. For our business in 2014 it is generally particularly important to adopt and implement, apply the new Pension Funds Act, compulsory pension funds and complete new legislation that regulates the operations of pension funds, and this report is one result of that law. The law also brings a number of other good and positive changes and newspapers. The most important of them is to introduce instead of one three different portfolios, i.e. a different mandatory pension fund of different risk profiles and each pension society is obliged to offer these three pension funds to its members. Let me put it this way more risky than they are, or one that has a higher risk profile and is expected that these pension funds will simultaneously achieve a greater contribution to our younger members, and that is the most conservative for those who are ahead of retirement, so that means my generation. Furthermore, the law raises organisational and professional conditions that must be met by management companies. The emphasis here is of course on managing pension funds portfolios, but also three independent risk management functions, a monitoring function of compliance with regulations and internal control functions and also sublegal acts pay particular attention to conflict management policies and ensuring business independence and decision-making. The role and responsibility of the Supervisory Boards is also raised to one level that is significantly higher than the Law on Commercial Companies alone. Furthermore, restrictions and quantitative investment limits have also been changed, allowing for investment in significant domestic and infrastructure projects, as well as greater entry into the issuer's share structure, means companies, which also means a more significant impact in corporate governance. Now something about offerings. The average contributions of category B pension funds, which are the follow-up of those earlier mandatory pension funds, have already had one of their history since 2002. They stood at 11.36% high in 2014 and 5.80% or about 3.5% real. These average long-term contributions are the contribution of the Peace Funds to Europe and are significantly higher, approximately double or even slightly higher than expected and projected at the start of the pension reform. What is of course interesting is also the cost of asset management and are often mentioned. Total management costs amounted to 0.51% annually and were again among the lowest in Europe, and the most significant of these costs for pension companies' management fees was 0.45%. At the beginning, it was 1.2% and this new law prescribed a further reduction in these fees, so today in 2016 our fee is 0.19% and will decrease by 7% annually until it reaches 0.7%. Total earnings from compulsory pension funds amounted to $ 6.5 billion. In order to avoid confusion, this increased the status of funds in personal accounts, meaning the personal accounts of members, and this is their personal property, and profits from the beginning of work to the end of 2014 amounted to 18.9 billion kuna. At the end of 2015, this goes up to 25 billion kuna. In the past period, we have been open to investment in domestic securities, but unfortunately in 2014 only one initial public offering of shares occurred, but in 2015 we invested in the capital increase of Podravka, Zagreb Stock Exchange, Luka Rijeka, Croatian Post Bank, Tanker's sailing of the new generation. In order for mandatory pension funds to achieve their full contribution to the sustainability of the pension system and to achieve an adequate pension, it is necessary to do what has not been done in the future, and this was envisaged in the start of the pension reform, which is to increase the rate of contribution to the Second pension pillar. This is general information about fund operations. And now I'm going to say a little bit about the funds under Raiffeisen's mandatory and voluntary retirement society. The total value of the assets on the management of our society, the compulsory pension funds without volunteers amounted to 20.22 billion kuna, and the vast majority of it was in the category B fund which was also the successor of the only old Raiffeisen compulsory pension fund. I believe that our members, I believe that there are some among you here who can be satisfied with the results achieved in 2014 because in 2014 a profit of 12.36% and since it was a year of deflation was actually a real contribution of almost 13%, close to 13%, and the average annual contribution from the beginning of work to the end of the fourteenth was 5.9% and real 3.49%. The total earnings made in 2014 amounted to 2.14 billion kuna. I say again the profits we made for our members, and from the beginning of the work to the end of 2014, that was 6.4 billion kuna. Contribution made for a little more than 4 months of business, i.e. management of these new pension funds. For Fund A, it was 4.37% and for Fund B 4.2%. So it's not analized it's just as nominally as it's been achieved in those 4 months and slightly more. At the end of 2014, we had 1327 members and property of only 93.8 million kuna. In the B fund, which is the largest, we had 19.6 billion kuna, which is 3.44% of all the category B pension funds, and the number of members was 518 251. In Fund C, we had 5441 members and 539 million kuna. Unlike category A funds whose member becomes only voluntary in category C funds, all of our members who are 5 years ahead of the retirement legal period, of course everyone who wants to. Due to the fact that older members still have higher balances in the accounts, Fund C will be charged and increased much faster than this Fund A. The detailed contribution of business is presented in our financial reports which are in support of this basic report. In addition to the results achieved, I mean good results for our members, we believe that in our society we have successfully implemented the new legislation, but that job is not finished, of course. Both the legislation and the rules of the profession require continued verification, analysis and improvement of procedures and procedures for the management of pension funds. After us is another year, 2015, in which solid results have been restored but we will not talk about it now, next time we will talk about it when we report to this House. I hope for something shorter so that these numbers are a little bit fresher and more current. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1382	Next, Petar Vlaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1383	The Honorable Chairman of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is an honor and a pleasure to present to this meeting the work and business of Erste Blue Mandatory Pension Funds for 2014. Our company Erste d.o.o. which I am headed except with 3 compulsory pension funds also manages with 4 voluntary pension funds. And the theme of today's normal exposure is the work of mandatory pension funds for 2014. In 2014, Erste's blue compulsory pension funds had a total of 264 529 members, with 46.8% women and 53.2 men, and the average age of members was 37.6 years. So it's a relatively young population. The market share by the number of members of our mandatory pension funds amounted to 15.51% while the total assets amounted to 8 billion and 799 million kuna and of which the employers paid 6 billion and 399 million kuna from the end of 2014, while the total earnings amounted to 2 billion and 404 million kuna. As you know at the end of 2014 or in the second half of 2014, except for the existing mandatory pension fund, all members had the opportunity to choose two additional pension funds, and the funds were renamed Class A, B and C. With the class being the most dynamic class B funds of measured risk and measured yield, and C funds are funds for those oldest, those 5 years before retirement and all others who are extremely reluctant to accept the risk. Out of the total number of members I already mentioned at the end of 2014. 2049 members were in Fund C while there were 709 members in Fund A. The Fund A, which was intended for the youngest members and those prone to more risky investment but normal and higher expected contribution at the end of 2014, had 48.7 million kuna of assets, and the contribution of the fund in that year since its founding was 5.16% by the end of the year. The highest assets in Fund A were invested in the Republic of Croatia, 76.4%, then in the EU and US countries, and individually by securities were the highest in Croatian government bonds of 52%, in Croatian shares 21%, in shares of companies from other countries in total 20%. The category B fund, which was the largest fund, had 70% invested in government bonds, 11% had invested in Croatian shares while 7.5% had invested in foreign shares and another 7% had invested in ETF covering the same majority of the stock market. The total contribution from the establishment until the end of 2014 was 6.03%. That was an average contribution. And the real contribution after the deduction of inflation was 3,62%, which also mentioned by a colleague of the Grbavac before, is more important than the averages achieved by most pension funds around the world and much more than expected at the beginning of the reform to be real contributions. The third fund, category C fund intended for the oldest members prior to retirement and for those who do not accept the risks of its specificity, is that at least 90% of the assets must be invested in kuna instruments and must not be invested in equity securities. The fund had all the expensive assets at the end of 2014. 172.4 million kuna and made a contribution of 3.24%. Here's how much that would be. Perhaps in the end, just to mention, we like all other pension funds are ready to invest in Croatian companies, we are ready to invest in Croatian projects, especially infrastructure projects, we hope that this will be more in the future than ever before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1384	Dinko Novoselek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1385	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament I am Dinko Novoselec, chairman of the AZ Obligatory Pension Society Management, and in short I will present to you a report from my Fund for 2014 trying to repeat myself in the part where the report on my fund matches the report from other funds. For starters, I would like to say that I am extremely pleased that for the first time I have the opportunity to present AZ mandatory pension funds in front of this high house. I think it's a very good practice, I say hello. I would like to say that this only emphasises one obvious fact that mandatory pension funds, although private institutions are significant in public function, so much so and so much because of this fact, we present our financial reports to you. Therefore, members of the AZ compulsory pension funds made extremely high contributions in 2014. Our largest category B fund, which had about 605,000 members at the end of 2014, made an annual contribution of 11.37% and our members increased their assets in the account in that year by 2.6 billion kuna, not counting payments. So that's just the amount of money that was added to the personal accounts in that year on the basis of a good investment of the fund's assets. From the beginning of the work, from mid-2002 to the end of 2014 the contribution of the fund was 6,05%, so that is the contribution that includes, from which all the fees and all the costs that may have been charged to it have been excluded. When considering the inflation rate according to the State Statistics Institute data, that is to say, the real contribution of the one reduced for inflation was about 3.6%, as was the case with other pension funds. At the end of 2014, AZ's compulsory pension fund amounted to 25.8 billion kuna, 84% of which were invested in the Republic of Croatia and 70% in Croatian government bonds. Investment in shares accounted for slightly less than 20% of the total assets of the fund. I would add perhaps not entirely as a consequence of both our wishes but to a good extent and the consequences of various market and regulatory constraints. Of foreign investments, a significant part of the assets was invested in US-based publishers primarily, but also in Slovenia and Israel. The most significant part of the stock portfolio is sectorally related to companies dealing with pharmaceuticals and consumer goods. In the currency structure, more than 50% of the fund's assets are invested in kuna, kuna instruments while the rest is dominantly related to the euro and slightly less to US dollars. The AZ mandatory pension funds of category A and C are those introduced and started in 2014 only in the summer of 2014. At the end of the year, there were 7 321 members. In just over 4 months of work, the AZ Mandatory Fund category A achieved a contribution of 4.06% and the AZ Mandatory Pension Fund category C 1.77%. So it was one third of the year, not the whole period. The total assets of the Fund A at the end of the year amounted to 164 million kuna, of which 86% of the assets were invested in domestic assets. As the fund only started working that year, it did not actually achieve its target portfolio structure because it had only 4 months behind it and during 2015, the share of shares in that fund meant that there were some legal expected amounts. At the end of 2014, AZ’s compulsory pension fund category C amounted to 623 million kuna, almost all of which were invested in domestic assets 96%. According to the limits, Fund C must not invest in debt values, therefore there are no shares in the equity securities. Finally, in 2014 the year we are talking about in the European and Croatian economies showed only the first signs of recovery, but the contributions of our funds were extremely high far above average and if I am not wrong, if we look at the history of pension funds in its size. Only the first year was something higher. In total, we made more than 2.6 billion kuna for our members in 2014 and we hope that such trends will leave you in the future and thank you so much for your attention and we are available for answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1386	Thank you. Deep Squishy is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1387	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen parliamentary representatives of the Company for the Management of Mandatory Pension Funds PBZ Croatia Insurance during 2014... with 3 compulsory pension funds as well as with my colleagues different categories of risk according to legal provisions and restrictions. On 31.12.2014 there were 303 678 members in all three funds with a total asset of 10.65 billion kuna. To our members, we made the following contributions in Fund A from the establishment of this fund 21.8.2014 to 31.12.2014. In fact, we made a nominal contribution of 6.39%, which was adjusted for inflation by a real contribution of 6.61%), namely inflation was negative in 2014. In Fund B 10.20% was a nominal contribution in 2014, i.e. a real contribution of 10.42, which was an average annual contribution to the last 3 years of 8.20% and a realistic average annual contribution of 6,61% respectively. And from the beginning of 2002, the average annual contribution to members is 5.10%. In Fund C from the establishment of that fund, the same as for Fund A from 21.8.2014 to 31.12 achieved a nominal contribution of 2.99%, which was adjusted for inflation made by a real contribution of 3.19%. With such contributions in 2014 we earned our members a total of 958.85 million kuna. Clean earnings of members after all fees are denied and of course no contribution. On 31.12.2014, the assets in the largest B category were invested 81% in the assets of domestic issuers of which 63% in... The Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 24% of the assets were invested in shares of Croatian foreign stock companies. In category A 51% of the assets were invested in bonds issued by the Republic of Croatia. 7% in the corporate bonds of domestic issuers and about 37% in shares of domestic and foreign stock companies. The assets of category C category C under the law were invested exclusively in bonds and instruments of monetary markets. Of the more important activities, we can mention participation in the recapitalisations of the companies Granolio and Đuro Đaković, and in 2015 as mentioned, there were significantly more of these events and our funds totalled around 240 million kuna in... tanker sailing Next Generation, Podravka, Rijeka port, Croatian Post Bank and Zagreb Stock Exchange. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the end of 2014, PBZ Croatia's insurance funds had a total of $1.48 billion invested in shares of Croatian stock companies. In March 2014, we also paid legal provisions, i.e. to the 1st column 722 million members regulated under special regulations, i.e. military personnel, police officers and the like. In conclusion, assessing the work of our funds and the benefits we make to our members if we make a comparison with the work of pension funds in our similar countries, as my colleagues also pointed out, the average real annual contributions we have made to our members since the beginning of work are greater than the contributions that are... The pension funds of most European countries achieved by their members. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With regard to the fees paid to us by the members, they are 0.8% prescribed for the entry fee for each payment and another 0.45% of the management fee to be reduced each year. With this cost structure, our total cost price for our members is about 0.5% which is significantly lower than the benefits charged by pension funds in our comparable countries. For 2016, our pension funds are ready to participate in all projects of interest for our economy that can benefit our members. In the recapitalisations of stock companies, infrastructure projects, energy projects, privatisations. We hope that these projects will be as many as possible, certainly more than they have been in the past. Because the existence or absence of such projects has a crucial impact on the possible activities of pension funds or the structure of their portfolios. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1388	Thank you. Here's what we've done with the opening part. We'll continue the debate at 3:00 after the break. So break till 3:00. It's 1:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1389	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Now we're going to discuss it. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Silvano Hrelja, HSU, the Independent List of Stipe Petrina, first applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1390	Dear Vice President, honourable promoters, respected colleagues and colleagues. It would be better if we had discussed this early this morning because of the public's interest, because there's a lot of controversy about mandatory pension funds, about the second pension column, and this would be a unique opportunity to face arguments about this issue. But what it's like, here we are. Welcome everyone to the debate, get as much involved as possible to answer as many questions or unknowns as possible, that no one is talking about it, because it's extremely serious stuff. First, I want to answer why we are even discussing this issue in this House today. I only have to return you back to 2014 when the Last Amendment to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds was last amended, when mandatory pension funds were paid to sub-portheles, that HSU intervened in the adoption of this law with one amendment under which compulsory pension funds are once a year obliged to report to the Croatian Parliament on their business. We thought it was their obligation and if, I mean, everyone can argue because it's private societies, banks, therefore private companies and no other societies have such a commitment. However, here these companies, i.e. these four pension fund management companies, are working on a project designed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia back in 1998, so 18 years ago where the application of the pension reform in the second pillar began in 2002 and are doing public work. So they are working according to the rules laid down by the Republic of Croatia and doing public work. They work for the citizens of Croatia, for a million, more than a million and 700 thousand pensioners, and I hope that we agree that this is enough reason for these funds that do such an important job for future pensioners to the citizens of Croatia to submit a report once a year to this High House. The second thing that I'd like to take advantage of intro to this story is the opportunity of a dear colleague and a colleague, I'd like to ask you if you've entered the amount of your pension savings into your property when you fill out your property card every under 54 years. It's about your personal account, it's about the money paid, it's about the contributions that they've been delivering over 14 years, or raising pension funds. It is about your personal property that no one can take away from the citizens of Croatia without them asking questions. If someone dares and such ideas are heard, it's a new nationalization. I think this society is much more mature than such a move. We may have a disagreement between the professional public about the future of these funds, we may have a disagreement between social groups in our country, we may have a generational disagreement not because we couldn't figure out what the problem is, but what everyone is looking at in our society. And with the position of selfishness, we may be willing to destroy the future of young generations rather than give them a chance. That's why there's good debate on this subject. Now I expect a good debate in 5, 6, 7 months when the report is in front of this High House for 2015. So we're talking about this 66 billion report, we're talking about 6.5 billion contributions in 2014 to accounts of more than a million and 700 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We are talking about 320 million costs paid by pension fund management companies, of which 80 million immediately went to co-finance REGOS, HANFA, indirect and FINA. So we need to fully shed light on this situation in order to judge whether something is right or wrong. So there are 14 years of savings in individual accounts of Croatian citizens. And we're getting a chance to sort of not know what to do with it. We create such an atmosphere in the country. I assure you, dear colleagues and colleagues, if our neighbours of the Slovenians were in this situation, that they would have 5 billion euros compared to their size, not like 10 of us in pension funds to make a very good use of them. If no foreign bank had rescheduled the Slovenian bank. So, I guess Podravka would never buy a grain. Croatia's insurance would probably never buy Triglav or own Triglav. The Zagreb Stock Exchange would probably never own the Ljubljana Stock Exchange either. That sounds nice, doesn't it? But what I'm talking about is the truth. So we did it and they wouldn't let us have 5 billion savings in pension funds. That raises the question of whether we know how to use it qualityfully. It also says here in all the reports, in all the discussions on this topic it says that but we didn't use it in economic growth. In order for pension funds to invest in economic projects, someone must offer good projects with long-term financing, with a stable and secure return. They can't and can't invest pension funds in something that's risky. They compete with the financial industry and their impact is measured how much they have made for their members. To be clear, I'm not a pension fund lawyer here, I'm here as an agent and president of HSU, but I'm not and I'll never advocate the interests of just one group of pensioners, but also those pensioners who will be in 30 years. At the time when in 30 years we have 2 pensioners per 1 worker will we then have a VAT 50% to pay our pensions or we will allow people to be spared by investing, through the development of the economy, through infrastructure projects that these and all future governments have to design create this savings and create their security for their pension. These are my dear challenges. So it's no problem whether we know or not we know problems II. A retirement stake, we know them all. The key question is whether we know the advantages and how we can use it for the benefit of the current and future generations of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The key dilemma is whether the post-saving mind will be constructive after 14 years of saving or be destructive, whether we have the patience to talk reasonedly or we will look for solutions to progress. Do we have the strength to find the best solutions? It is also a question of whether the present generation can touch on the hope, right and property of future pensioners, those who started working today, started working yesterday, or will do so tomorrow. I would also like to point out or refer to a dilemma that is present in public that II. The pillar endangers the pillar of generation solidarity, i.e. pension pillar I, or that it threatens the state budget. The second pension column is certainly not an extenuating circumstance for the state budget, but it also does not question it. By eliminating the potential, I hope no one thinks about it, by abolishing II. The current pensioners would not get a raise of any kuna. It's about 1% of the total amount of money that's in cash everything else is in securities, bonds, shares, financial records. Therefore, speak to II. The pillar endangers pillar I of generation solidarity is a bit pretentious. I can only say knowing the three-stage pension system and how it is imagined to be these three retirement pillars, and especially these two I and II. not at all two competing pillars. They don't do competition to each other. They're actually complementary. Where one stops, the other starts. There is also a space for joint action and there are errors that have been corrected, which have been corrected and in legislation that determines the first pillar and second pillar because it has proved that the reform has introduced considerable injustices into the pension system and inequality, and for the pension reform important that it must respect the constitutional principle, the principle of equality. So, of course, there is also a question of pension savings security. Everyone says it's in the papers if it fails, listen, there could be a meteorite attack on Earth, and what do we do now, what do we do with it? If that's what we're going to think, but look at you in the banks of the state guaranteeing it 100 thousand euros for the equivalent, 100 thousand euros for your savings. Above that if you have no guarantee. Here, even in 40 years more than 100,000 euros can be collected, your savings in the second pension column are secured. If it fails, God does not give one of these mandatory pension fund management companies, so it does not touch your pension savings, i.e. pension savings of 1 million and 700 thousand future pensioners. The funds have their depositary, so they have a position where they have a warehouse, where they put all their securities. In the event that banks, they are banks, in case the depositary bank fails those financial instruments are not subject to bankruptcy. So we could discuss some sophisticated ways of destroying these documents now and at this point unknown to us or some elemental disasters, but for these things security definitely does not exist. And I can say that the second pension column is one of the safest, best-guarded funds, these are the funds of the Republic of Croatia. It should be said that the same thing to point out that we have a public debt problem of 280 billion kuna, that's quite a bit of a stretching data. However, one data is much more likely, i.e. more verifiable, and that is how much in Croatia do we have in total individual savings? So in the banks of Croatia's citizens, bank deposits have 190 billion kuna plus 75 billion in the second pension column. So with more than 90% of individual savings, we cover public debt. That we should imagine ourselves and ask whether we have enough creativity to once through retirement savings, and the second time we also hire the savings of citizens, citizens will invest in something that, in something that makes sense, is in something that brings contributions because each of us in our own backyard, in our family, can count on what is worth it or what is not worth it. I am also available for replicas and for a good debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1391	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1392	You're telling your colleague that taking away, or freezing savings from the second pillar, would be a new nationalization. I believe that this is a very dangerous idea and that it would not only be nationalisation, but literally the kidnapping that our pensioners have experienced in 90 years and now they are not even planning to wait for them to retire, but now their savings as future pensioners intend to kidnap, or at least hear voices in this regard. And that's why we really need to talk about it so it doesn't happen. And what is this money going to do? Move into current consumption, directly to the salaries of new employees because as we have today had the opportunity to see that there is no minister who does not seek new employment. And the question is really right after what happens next? Will the new government then, after such a move, freeze or hijack savings, deposit the citizens and allow them a possible equivalent of 50 euros to be taken daily?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1393	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1394	Comrade Ingrid, I thank you for your replica because you gave me another chance to say something more about this. Of course these are dangerous claims that should be done, but I think everyone is wise to give advice out of a position that is not too much to him, either him or his children. That should be considered very well when it comes to possible termination because that would really mean nationalisation or kidnapping as you said. However, we must be very careful and from the position of the announcement of freezing the second pension pillar because it can actually generate, it is not difficult to implement, it is not difficult to implement the amendments to the law, you can do so, there is no longer what remains of the mandatory pension funds to them, they continue to spin but you have no new payments. However, it pulls one other position, then you place the pensioners in the first pension column in an unequal position. In that case, you must also amend the Pension Insurance Act in which you must give all citizens who have no more payments in the second column for years of payments only in the first degree an allowance of 27%, as all those who are now going to retire have. As our citizens have this supplement, I'm sorry, they don't have to be our citizens, they have to be our pensioners who have an internship for 10 years, for example. in Croatia, for 30 years in Germany they have achieved the 27% supplement regardless of whether it was 10 years ago or 10 years ago. So we already have an inequality and the freezing would create an even greater inequality among the first pillar's pensioners, which means that eventually we would, if we made such a decision, create a greater cost in the future than we have now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1395	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1396	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Hrelja. As you said in the introduction, there are many obstacles to this topic and you said that no one can take as well as nationalize or freeze the funds invested in these pension funds. However, I would like to draw your attention to that right in public, i.e. In some social groups, there is, above all, an opinion in pension societies that the second pension column threatens the first pension column due to the absence of 4.5 to 5.2 billion kuna plus 2.5 billion kuna on government bonds. This totals $7.8 billion a year and that amount is the stone around the neck of the state budget. And if it wasn't for the state budget, it wouldn't be in the excessive deficit zone. However, the witnesses are that certain reforms have been announced which are just about to be abolished by this second pension pillar, and I agree with you completely that we will question those generations that will retire in 20 or 30 years and are regularly investing in these funds to depriving them or to put them in a standstill in some way. I expect that the reforms that have been announced will provide a higher pension, a better standard for our pensioners and, above all, by strengthening pension insurance based on generation solidarity. But I also expect the pension system to develop according to examples of good practice. Here's the prime minister who came to us from Canada who must be one of the social states and that just by not cutting down, but by a new way, he's going to increase exactly that pension pillar of intergenerational solidarity. But we're also against ending this way through pension funds just because of the younger ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1397	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1398	Dear fellow Tulio and I am very grateful to you for this question, but I would like to try your replica, or your replica, but I would like to try to answer you with one question. All are now causing a problem of about 5 billion that went to individual citizens' accounts during the year, not the first pension column, and this is indeed a heavy burden for the budget as well as 2.5 billion kunas of interest paid on bonds that pension funds took, so they sold to the state, gave money and took bonds, and they are paid approximately 6% of them on bonds. But I'm asking you if it would be better if the state paid that interest of 2.5 billion kuna a year to the German or American bank, or if it were better for those interest to go to the contribution of millions and 700 thousand members of mandatory pension funds. I think it's better if that interest goes to our citizens than to some foreign banks. Secondly, everyone around it is making a problem about those 5 billion and no one is causing a problem for us to spend 8 billion dollars on 170 thousand pensioners under special regulations, 7 on them, and another for 205,000 lowest pensions another billion kuna. So that's what in the first degree generation solidarity isn't covered by contributions over the years. Or to be correct 60% is but 40% of it isn't covered by contributions, it's a direct budget cost. Here we know why we pay 5 billion less. To ensure future generations of such a pension. I'm not sure generation solidarity can give out pensions when we have two pensioners on one worker. I'm sorry about the overrun.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1399	The third replica is the distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1400	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague Hrelja, here I am now going to be repeating myself, and colleagues before me were talking about such an actual second pillar. Namely, through your discussion on several occasions you mentioned that there are doubts in the public which we know about the second property column but what she said more strongly was that it was doubled and waisted. Therefore, my replica would say more in terms of one question or clarifications sent to you in order to make this debate more clear to the interested public. And especially should be an interested younger generation. So I'd like to ask you first of all to allow me, first of all, one of my questions, one of my own, to say an observation or a finding, the fact that the security of investment in another pension column is hard to talk about, because the funds don't exactly give me some arguments. What you have is a bug and, for example, where the funds are invested, and some that are not there. So, it would be good and instructive to hear from you what you think is the security of second pensioners' assets precisely because in public lately it has been particularly highlighted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1401	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1402	I have most of the time answered the question of security, so the security of capitalised savings in the second pension column. But you gave me one incentive to say that safety can be greater. But we can, we have to look up to developed Scandinavian countries, etc. And we need to open up the premises to invest these mandatory pension funds. So we really need to give good projects. Who says we can't do this in a state-debted position, which is very much now the current management of public debt, i.e. the desire to deprive Croatia. Who says that in exchange for bonds, pension funds can't take stock of companies, but those that are on the market and who make a profit. No one's gonna take that company and they can't take it, one pension fund can't be taken for the people they work for. For this million and 700 thousand citizens must not take stock unless it is on the stock market or on all those criteria. And of course it can even be if it's on the stock market, if it falls down, what if it doesn't make him a profit? So he either has to make a profit through interest on the bond or through profit in business. So that's the essence of the story. And that's why it can't be run by anyone, but it has to be so thoughtfully and systematically run the policies of investing pension funds. But again, for the sake of security, the state is invited to design quality long-term projects and create the interest of pension funds to enter into investments and develop the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1403	Thank you. Next up for the debate, Ivan Shuker, HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen directors of mandatory pension funds, colleagues and colleagues. So in order to discuss this subject, we need to get into history a little bit. First of all, why 2014 was installed in the legal provision that mandatory pension funds submitted this report. It is precisely because parliamentary representatives, and through them the Croatian public gets full insight into the system. However, what I want to say. So these reports were made professionally, but professionally for one entirely different group of people, for supervisory committees, for administrations, for financial markets. However, what was intended to be achieved here in the Assembly, unfortunately, we do not have this in these reports, which is to get one full piece of information, because in principle these gentlemen here were supposed to offer us an answer today why these pension funds are justified, what is the safety of Croatian citizens in this money. So a series of other data. And I sincerely hope that when we discuss the 2015 report in two and a half months we will get one of those complete reports. Because look, these notes along with the financial report, we can see it on the web pages, etc. And frankly speaking probably very few colleagues have read that report, although I say it is technical and looking at the professional side made excellent. It's not there, I can't say there's some kind of objection. However, given what the intention and purpose was to build on legal obligations to submit this report, I believe that this report should look different, although frankly speaking to me there is one piece of information in all four reports which I particularly personally enjoy, which is that from 2004 to 2007, the only period in the history of the Croatian state when public debt is reduced by the share of public debt in the gross domestic product. It's written in all four materials here and that's a fact and that's the answer to all those who talk about some kind of catastrophic thing. Now let's get to the system. So in history, so to speak, the Croatian state has three periods in terms of this legal area, which regulates pensions, which have cost the Croatian state extremely expensive because of certain experiments. One is the famous unpaid pension and debt to pensioners who are currently costing the Croatian state more than 40 billion kuna. That's the truth, that's the information you can check. The other is that careless provision in the law, depending on which date you retired. In the end, when people began to receive pensions, those who had left a month later worked in the same office, on the same jobs, and they received 200 or 300 kuna, and even some smaller pensions. And that's why it had to be intervened into the law to even it out. That's the second group of pensioners. So, this reform of the pension system in the Republic of Croatia is a World Bank project that began in '98. A year with the assumption that it starts with 5%, to end with 10% within 5, 6, 7 or 8 years. However, after practically 13 years of application of this law, we remained in isolation for the second pillar of retirement at 5% instead of being 10%. Now something, colleagues and colleagues, we have in Croatia today when we look at the competitiveness of extremely high loads of work, so the price of working with pension and health contributions. And that may be the greatest minus that we all remember when we talk about the competitiveness of work. So that's one side of the medal black. when we talk about the competitiveness of work. So that's one side of the medal black. The other side, when we look at what is financed from the budget of these funds, regardless of why we are extremely reduced competitiveness creates a deficit for the state budget of 20 billion kuna. 17,5 billion kuna pension fund and 2.5 billion kuna health fund. That's exactly it. So at this point, we have a minus 17.5 billion of what is collected and what is paid for pensions. The second pillar of retirement if all goes well in some future times, let's assume that the story is static this amount of 37 billion in the state budget should begin to decrease. Because there will be more and more of those who will receive part of the pension from the second pillar and not a full pension in 100% of the amount of the 1st pillar. So these are facts that we simply cannot ignore when we talk about this problem. The other thing, according to the law and intentions of this pension reform, is that it should have helped develop the financial market in the Republic of Croatia. Whether or not this happened or we can't talk now is or not, but because of the legal provision somewhere around 70% of the total property of mandatory pension funds is in government bonds. And that's something that guarantees safety. It might be interesting here, given that this is the first report, and since the time of the economic crisis is mentioned in 2010, to say how many pension funds in Croatia have been lost during the economic crisis. In my knowledge, since I was Minister of Finance at the time, it was somewhere between a billion and a half and two billion kunas. Also, some investments that were very risky have proved to be risky have led to a reduction in certain revenues. That's all you need to see in this together. However, if we implemented a pension reform and I think there was a political consensus on both the left and right about the pension reform. What do we have in Croatia today? We have a million and 250 thousand pensioners, a million and 320 employees and when out of these millions and 320 employees we turn down about 250 thousand who receive salaries from the state budget and 40, 50 grand who receive salaries from the budget of the local self-government units, that's 300 thousand and we get to the so-called. The real sector then we have a million employees working for a million and 250 thousand pensioners somewhere. And the ratio is not 1 to the 1.1, but the ratio is unfortunately 0.8 versus 1. Why? Because these 300,000 of their salaries are financed from the exact same cash register as pensions. Because we 17,5 billion kuna pension needs are financed from tax revenue or debt. Because that 13-billion-dollar deficit, the 14-state budget, we can't locate him that much has gone to retirement, so much has gone to this. But simply a debt, actually that delta on pensions is the biggest. However, the biggest tragedy, it is Croatia's biggest problem, and it is that at this point about 800,000 pensioners have a pension under 3,000 kuna. And that's the biggest problem of our pension system. Well, we can fight here anyway. Now look, if out of these 75 billion 53, 54 billion in government bonds are practically these pension funds already invested in the state in a certain way. They bought state securities, the state didn't, whether they bought them directly when there was a release or later bought it on the market is irrelevant. On the other hand, they entered some commercial companies. And now that we're talking about various transactions and what we really want in Croatia. First of all, do we want a strong national bank in Croatia? But not a strong national bank because someone would dictate that loans would be shared but simply owned by Croatia. Well, if that's what we want, with HBOR, which is a special story. HBOR is an export investment bank that is not a classical bank and then it is logical to ask the question why has the Post office bank been in the level where no one has made an offer to invest in it for years? Why did Croatia's insurance go the way she left, why didn't pension funds invest in this together? And after all, what kind of monetization, what kind of this, what kind of thing? So no one is defending pension funds from making a certain offer to enter one part of the Croatian roads and Croatian highways because it is owned by Croatian citizens. And get into the control system and lift the efficiency of management. Well, no one's defending anyone. If we talked about these pension funds being the generator of financial market development. However, what does the financial market in the Republic of Croatia look like today? What does the Zagreb Stock Exchange look like? What is the larger transaction since the privatisation of practically 30 and how many percent of HT shares? These are all small shops and practically real stock trade in Croatia does not exist. And then the logical thing is that something that shouldn't be a subject of politics, but exclusively of profession, because it's about living people, and most importantly, it's about numbers that jump dizzy if you do them wrong, and that's why I did mention at first how much money was spent to pay back the pensioners, so it's going to happen with something else. That we understand the failed story with II. The pillar tomorrow is the cost of the state budget no matter what anyone says. Because you citizens simply have to secure a minimum pension whether you have collected it or not, whether they have paid it like this or not. You gave them that law. Because in 2002, those under the age of 40 had no choice. They're told you have to go to II. The pension rate, and those over 40 years of age, are given the possibility that you can continue as old or you want to join II. Retirement rate. Therefore, if the state has imposed something, then if a certain disturbance occurs tomorrow, then the state must bear the costs. So I say let's look at the ideal story, what I've already said, and that's that this second pillar of retirement tomorrow should be the main one to say the cost-cutting generator, that's more than ten years away when the first major group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who started to pay into the second pillar of retirement start getting pensions one piece from the first part of the second then the cost won't be what it is. So that's something that's definitely a fact. And we've had a chance to see that over the past 2.5 years 6 billion have been taken from the second pillar of retirement, taken to cover spending in the state budget. However, those 6 billion are the cost of some future time because these people will have to pay a full pension when they retire. And we were the money that was supposed to come out of the second pillar, from the second pillar to the first pillar of retirement practically spent now. But then my colleagues on my left didn't look at this problem this way. That's why colleagues and colleagues think it's been too long, and that's 13 years to play with this project today, but I expect from these gentlemen of the day here who repeat technically have offered an excellent report that in the third month offers us a report that the MPs will understand. And that's that, just to list a few parameters, what is the total assets of the fund, what is the income, how many are certain risk investments where the funds have lost? Because in the end, when you go to the world to sell government bonds, 80% of these bonds buy you pension funds all over the world, because pension funds are the only funds at this point that have a continuous flow of money. The world market at this point is flooded with cheap capital and I understand that investing in the state bonds of the Republic of Croatia at this point is a beautiful gift to keep money. Because when you can't place the money, you still have to pay someone to keep, place and Croatia at 4.5.5%, that's a nice reward. That's what's happening on the world market right now. And what I'm gonna end up with, when it comes to finance, we can't send bad messages out. Because when we send bad messages then we are treated like we don't know what we're going to do, we're treated to make the financial market unstable, that we're going to make public finances unstable, and then let's not be surprised what our risk coefficient is at this point 275 to 325, and the Slovenians are 75 or translated into plain folk language, so that means when you go in debt to Croatian businessmen and Croatian citizens and we all pay 2.5% more expensive money at the beginning than our competitors pay it. So you take on a job where you earn 2, 3 or 4% if you pay your capital 2.5% of the percentage points than your competitor how can you compete with them on the market in general? Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this report because it is technically, there are no things we did not expect, but I repeat, in the third month, we expect a very different report to offer us concrete data because we can come to this data here and perhaps with your visions and projections in which these mandatory pension funds should be developed. Because at the end of the day, 1 million and 700 thousand of our citizens are currently saving about 75 billion kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1405	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1406	Dear colleague Shuker, I agree with most of your exposure, but a few technical details have burned my ear. Of course, the future report that should be should not be justified whether pension funds are necessary or not because it is part of a pension reform that we passed 18 years ago. If we're going to ask for an excuse every time in the report, I mean, if we're going to keep asking each other questions, it means we're not safe to walk this way we're walking. Of course, the report could not be defined by amendment to the law, but it is good that the report first came before the Croatian Parliament. As far as form and content are concerned, we can arrange it, I think that the gentlemen will understand both from your words and from this debate what else is needed and how pension funds are, how they do business and all these risks. Of course, I have to tell you that I am proud of those 40 billion because if there were no Croatian party of pensioners, the pensioners would never get them because they would not simply have anyone to look for. Whether it's a debt recovery or it's a 4 to 27% supplement. And, of course, no one argues that there have been no difficulties in these 14 years and that anything can be better and better and better and that it has been an extremely bad year. And just another addition to which we must agree that only now have we realized that there are pensions under special regulations that will not have a long period of savings and that one pension under special regulations excludes pension under general rules, and a two-stage or three-stage pension is a pension under general rules not according to a special regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1407	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1408	The second pillar of the pension and general pension system of the Republic of Croatia for ordinary people is one major unknown. So people left because they had to. Let's face it, let's not pretend we don't know what this is about. And precisely, the intention to change the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds from liberalising their ability to invest the funds we said we must also submit reports to the Croatian Parliament for the simple reason that education is helped primarily in people who are little in years. And then probably these stories wouldn't be what they are. Long-term pensioners, don't take on something you're not. 15 billion is the repayment of that debt and this rest is the interest that will be paid on that amount, those 6% plus 100 kuna that was passed in the beginning of 2000, that was when counterpart Vidovic was the minister of social care and we later installed it on a pension basis and that from the annual cost of 120 million came today at the annual cost of a billion and 400, so I said that this growth since it is a large number of things can be very dangerous and that this topic simply does not suffer politics. But I repeat what we do, everyone here needs to be a big problem, that's what I've told you a million people who work and a million 250 thousand pensioners and 800 thousand of our fellow citizens who have pensions below 3,000 or 250 thousand of our fellow citizens who have pensions below 2,000 kuna. These are real problems, and I think we should talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1409	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HSLS BUZ Club, the esteemed representative of Milivo Spik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1410	Dear Chairman, dear fellow rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the 14th year how this second pension column works and you'd say some of it's been running for pensioners and future pensioners, honey and milk. This report comes with some little delay, but what's there is, we assume this next one will be subject to a little deeper discussion. A colleague of the Hrelja says we should talk when talking about the second pension column with arguments, excellent. So all the time, when it's mentioned that something should be done, that something's wrong with the second pillar, then opponents of it always call for one thing and it's not your right to touch it, it's someone's personal, so private property. So let me start with that. Is the amount that's on the individual account in the second pension column of person A, his personal, so his private property? If we say that private property is something that a person has unlimitedly available and then we say that these assets that are held on any person are not his private property. And neither can that person at any time with the amount that's due on his behalf with that money have as much as you normally have if you have a foreign exchange, liquid and any other account. How did it come to be the first and second retirement pillars? So the only wetlands in this whole story is that someone by administrative means is 20% deposit in a pension column that was then the first to split 15% and the rest in the first pillar and 5% goes into the second pension column. As good as it is and what effect it gives, we see now after 14 years in the fact that almost no one who has retired has used mostly, so it is rare that individuals who have asked that some of the pensions are also received from the second pension column. They have already asked for the nominal amount to be transformed into the first pension column because their pension is better quality. So obviously there's something wrong with it. On the other hand, at this point, there is now no irrefutable fact that the second pension pillar of Croatia as a state only on the basis of investment in bonds costs about 2 billion kunas each year, approximately, if 4% of the yield per year, what, at 50 billion,... But it costs. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] At the same time, by this 5 billion as much as possible, how much is going to go into the second pension column each year is increasing public debt in such a way that Croatia must be in debt for the same amount each year. On the one hand, those who have money in the second pension column are paid interest. Someone's gonna say yes, so we pay for it, no, because it's about banks that are owned by foreign property, so we can't say it's ours. When that cost, someone has to pay for it, we add what the state needs to condemn because every year it's said somewhere around $16, 17 billion is missing to pay off pensions, the state has to be in debt. For those five billion again if it's 5 or 6% of the interest we're going to pay again a large sum. When we add each other together, it turns out that for 1 kuna in the second pension column we pay almost 2 kuna, it costs us 2 kunas. Which of these benefits, and who has it? Except those who manage compulsory pension funds because to ask those who pay then they would certainly never have made certain investments such as some mandatory pension funds by investing in the capitalisation of Petrochemy in Optim Telekom shares or various other companies that are currently worth 10 times less. Have you ever heard or heard of any of those who receive an annual report or can see how much in their account in the second pension column has been reported to have lost that year? It's not. There's no such thing. Besides HANFA and management, of course, mandatory pension funds. Which of the interested people has any potential to influence, control, or anything when we talk about these means? There's no one here. Someone says that if they touch the second pension column, it'll be nationalization. Of what? If we have just concluded that all these funds are administrative, they are technically based on someone's name and last name. But that's how we all do it, and when it comes to the first pillar of retirement, each individual pays his pension, goes to retirement, it's a calculation of the basis and payment as it is in the second pillar. So something that has never been owned by an individual in a way that he can't possibly be taken away from it. If we say that at this time only one political option of retirement preferences, which is the Croatian Party of Retired People defends this way of functioning of the second pension pillar, and that all other relevant factors on this retirement scene are against it explicate the Union of Retired Croatians, the Mother of Retired Croatians, we bloc of pensioners together, then it is obviously either about the interest of a particular group to protect the interest of someone else or simply is one option right, and everyone else is wrong. Because let's not forget, every year more and more people come in or out of the first retirement column is getting smaller and smaller. And the irrefutable fact is that because of this 5%, the first pillar has less and that is one of the reasons why often different politicians say that pensioners are parasites, because there is no money. And then these others say that now we have a second pillar, so it's going to be an individual savings, so it's going to be a bigger pension. But when we say that in 10, 20, 30 or 40 years when someone tells me that at this point they're going to be behind it and they're going to guarantee something then we're free to go back to what decade and ask, so didn't anyone guarantee it before? So how did we get into the situation we came into? There are more answers on a series of these questions. But one thing is certain, in the best accounts there in the year 2060, Croatia will pay almost 2% of GDP in the second pillar, while from the second pillar of pensions will be paid 1.6. So almost 25% less than the payment. At the same time, Croatia will be in debt for almost 1,000 billion if someone was counting and will pay annual interest hypothetically 40 billion kuna. If we open the question whether in some other countries this is similar to the pension fund system, that is, the second pillar. How many more of those countries that introduced it and did not introduce it with their own will were forced by those who could. And almost everyone either gave up on the second pension column or made significant changes because they saw that it was simply not good. Does this second pension column affect public debt? Well, if you look at the side of these economists like this, he'll say no, the second pillar has nothing to do with public debt. But when we say it's due to the fact that that amount instead of the first goes into the second, yes, because we generate it. At this moment, these 70 billion kunas that are in the second pension column that are in the first, so in the budget Croatia would be in a much better position in some of the tasks. You wouldn't probably be in this position if it was on the verge of being trash, when we talk about the debt rating. And then finally, which of this entire operation and this whole process in the second pension column has the most benefits? Banks and bankers. What do pensioners have? Because after one period, when you draw a line as much as it costs, so how much of it remains, then the fact is that somewhere around a quarter of these funds stays with the bank through various fees and similar things. So someone says that about 1,500 kuna costs comes in 4,000 and some kuna that stays in the column. And then we heard the story that it would be good if the funding from the second pension stake were invested in some things. Yeah, if it were up to us, but it doesn't ask us. We don't manage them, and we don't have any influence on where the money from the second pension stake will be invested. Because if we were asked, and we were the owners, I wouldn't agree in madness to buy shares of Petrochemy or Optime Telecom or some company that, which is very interesting, a bank that controls a mandatory pension fund has given a big loan. And now that company can't repay credit, it goes bankrupt, it's going to fail. What is happening, interestingly and not rare, is that the mandatory pension fund owned by that bank buys those shares, and knows that there will be nothing of it, and then the closed circle returns loans to banks and banks in this way solves those risk payments. And whose damage? At the expense of those who think they have big money in the second pension column and they're rich and they're not, because there's no such information here we don't see. At this point and on behalf of our club, but also on behalf of the Block, the pensioners together as President of the Block of Retired People together do not advocate and prejudge any solutions but the fact is that at this point, the way we have organized and the way it works and the way that you use II. The pension column requires a very serious debate and one serious solution as far as possible. The fact is that this is not how it works, and all those who insist that it's someone's private property should tell everyone I repeat this and it's especially important that it's not true. This is the main challenge, and this is largely being called upon by all those who oppose any reform II. Retirement pillar. Because they say someone's taking yours. That's not true! What yours never was can't be taken from you. And it's clear to the citizens that that's the case. So at this point, I think this would be enough, but I believe that in a few months we will have a much more serious debate when we come out here with data that is currently out of time but there are a lot of interesting data and a lot of questions especially for people in charge of compulsory pension funds about some investments and about the results of these investments and why no one has absolutely no information or will, by all accounts, have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1411	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1412	Well, almost the whole exposure could be denied but I'm going to stick to some details and some strange claims. I can admit that ten years ago, I may have been influenced by this kind of thinking, but that's why I sat down, studied the whole system how it works, asked people, talked, cleaned up pictures and came up with some clear picture of how mandatory pension funds work, which is there plus, which is minus. And of course nobody's talking about it being something ideal, but it is, so saving citizens is private property with delayed availability. You can say what you want is to protect the citizens from themselves. Because you can do whatever you want with your pension savings on the basis of a life-saving policy, you come in voluntarily, you can go out voluntarily, you can win, you can lose whatever you want. This is a state project where everyone under the age of 40 in 2002 went into savings for their pension. The state has to knock it down for it, it'll have a delayed cost tomorrow. And, of course, I appreciate my friend and the Retired Union and the Retired Association, but he was always the only one right, the one who knew. And lastly, it's not correct of you to talk about pensioners being parasites. I beg you, you have said so in your own words. These are the people who have the most property, who are the most thrift, who created everything that we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1413	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Milivo Spik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1414	It is clear that you are trying to guard and protect your definition of private property, but the fact is that at no point from now on, so as long as you want no one at all can have the resources in II. A pension stake that's run on his name in a way that says ok, transfer that money to my current account. He can't. So private property is clear what it is. here it is not true, it is based on the name and last name but no person with it can dispose of it except at any time and the one going into retirement can say that I would like to take that amount on my behalf in II. transfer the pension column to the I. pension column because I have a better, better pension. But in terms of being available, how you define that someone's property can't, you know. So it's not the property of an individual in a way that it can take and dispose.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1415	Let's move on with the debate. Next is the distinguished representative Nancy Tyreli of Croatian Labourists – Labour Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1416	I thank Mr. Vice President, the respected directors of pension funds, colleagues and colleagues. After these discussions we can conclude one thing, he's right about a colleague named Hrelja when he's talking about private property and he's right about Mr. Spika. This is private property with delayed availability, so we can't deal with it right now. Here we are, as Parliamentarians, also a mandatory balance in our pension fund to enter in the property card precisely because we can't have that property at this time, but can't afford it until we retire. It's at least an interpretation of the Commission's decision on conflict of interest. By 2002, therefore, we had this system of intergenerational solidarity and because of the poor demographic structure of the population, but also an extremely unfavourable ratio of employees and pensioners, so a World Bank experiment on II was accepted. the voluntary pension fund, or the second pillar, and the transfer of one part of the pension system to the individual capitalised savings system has begun. The arguments presented at this time were also about the fact that the funds raised in the second pension fund would be used for the development of the economy, for the favourable lending of the economy, for the financial market, however, is not so. It was also said that in time the first pension column would decrease by 15%, and the second pension column of 5% of the elevators that did not also happen. At this moment in Croatia, among the users, i.e. the owners of these funds, which are citizens, those who have their assets deposited inside are almost the same division as here in this assembly and in these several discussions we have now heard. However, how to answer quality questions that have been raised before us and that require quality answers. The profession is divided, we have recently seen and read in the media. What I expected in these reports was exactly that. So that the reports are shown in the following way, so how much money is paid into the fund, out of these funds paid to REGOS, how many HANFAs, how much is, what are the costs of the companies that manage these funds, which are, therefore, the form of these costs, how much of that money has been collected to the salaries of the people that these 125 seem to me employees have these companies that manage the funds if I'm not all wrong together. So these are the data that may have been given in this report. Another piece of information that should have been given to me as well as one projection, let's call it so for all the citizens who are paying into the fund how much is paid in this fund, in these years, and how much is that pension? So we have that information, too. We do not now know from that second pension fund how much the amount paid per individual and how much was therefore some basis or income on which it was paid so that citizens could calculate something themselves. We can do some projections, but it's a question of what projections, or what parameters they'd put in there. Around that second pillar, there's a lot of controversy and questions about what opportunities are being asked? We've got a few of them. We've heard that the second pillar can be frozen, if we freeze these 75 billion kunas inside and let them in, we release 5 billion kunas for pensions because it would no longer be paid into the second pillar, and then the claims of the state based on pension payments would be lower. We can play it the way it is, we can lift the second pension column or we can give the citizens the opportunity to decide for themselves that the second pension column is really voluntary and not mandatory because now it is, we call it voluntary and in fact it is mandatory because we have therefore committed it by law. What's going on, so citizens who are paying into pension funds 87% seems to me that I read somewhere in these reports is the placement of funds on government bonds and I think 13% on foreign bonds. Citizens are paying their money into another pension fund, these funds are managed by companies owned by foreign banks, these same companies give loans to the Croatian state to pay their pensions because there is not enough money to pay for pensions based on generational solidarity, the state pays these same foreign banks interest and therefore would like to make sure in the next report when it comes to 2015. I was trying to get out of the financial reports but so 125 employees, revenues in 2014, more than 360 million kuna, paid bonuses to members of the administration and employees of nearly 9 million kuna and earned profits somewhere around 172 million kuna. That's the data I think we should be standing exactly the same in your reports. In order for the second pension pillar to be profitable, a number of times has been talked about a particular simulation that says that some 35 years should be minimally paid in that second pension column, the salary must be at least 7 thousand kuna and that the contribution must be at least 5%. The real contribution I think we're reading is now 3,06 or something, 3.6 real yield. So all this stuff that your colleagues used to say goes on the trail. Who, or savings, can give us a better answer than the value of the second pension stake, and is it worth it from those who manage the money in that second pension stake? I think that's exactly what you are, that you can give, to put together certain projections, I think you should do a quality public discussion of the profession and you to give real and accurate data and that based on these data the waist can then say its own, that the citizens also say their own. And finally make a decision whether or not we need a second pillar at this point. The problem that's been happening to us for decades is that we don't have the patience to wait for something to end. So we're entering certain projects and I think there's a particular project and this second pension column. We're doing it in some short or medium-term time of about 10, 12, 13, 14 years, and we're 40 years old. So these are projections that I think everybody deserves, to say so much pay, so many years of work experience expected retirement so much. That's something when we volunteer for a third pension column, we usually get it somehow. This is where we keep that information secret, they're gone. Although that second pension column is really as good as we claim it is, I'm not an expert and I don't know whether or not it is, so I'd like to hear some of the answers. If this second pension column is really so good for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia then... the space and opportunity for citizens to decide whether they want something good or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another question that bothers me all the time is that if we talk about 75 billion accumulated funds and talk about companies that manage pension funds, why is there not a single Croatian bank, more specifically the Croatian Post Bank, which has a fund for the second pension column? Why are the owners and those 75 billion kunas just foreign banks? Why should we give only foreign banks the possibility to be in charge of the Republic of Croatia? 87% of the national, Croatian government bonds we listen to and receive on our noses every day that our Croatian rating is in the trash, does this mean that our citizens' funds are also in the other pension column if they are bought with them, or 87% of government bonds? I've just raised some questions here, but it's not just my questions, so these are the questions of all those who in that second pension column are spared and forced and they have to because the law has told them that they have to if they're younger than 40 years old. So we have to do math, it's clear to everyone, and as long as we don't make the right math, and as long as we don't tell us what the yield is and how much anyone who pays in the second pension column expects to be his pension after a certain number of years of retirement, we'll have this kind of debate. We'll have misunderstandings of the profession, we'll have individual debates where we'll think that we who speak are the smartest. And here I call upon you, therefore, that on the next report for 2015 which you must submit, you may indeed take care of some of these indicators that would be very good to see, not only for our parliamentary representatives but therefore because of all those who are in the second pension column that they know exactly what they can plan for, what can I expect. The Labourists will accept these reports because here they are properly done but as fellow Shuker said, we can see them on the web. Those who are interested in reading many things from them, however, are not reports that would give the many Croatian citizens or users of the second pension column the answers they really need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1417	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Millivio Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1418	Dear colleagues. You say and talk about the delayed availability of someone's property from the second pillar. There is no specific availability, there is no availability, because you will never be free to dispose of these resources. Never then. So there's no delayed availability. Something that's yours is what you have right now. And one interesting thing, if a 30-year-old insurance guy were to set out in the second column with a gross salary of about 3,000 kuna, then after 30 years and 65 years of life from the second pillar, he would have that part of the pension somewhere around 220 kuna, that's 10% of this church's average pension that the pensioners are now receiving. And you need to get stuck with an eye simple mathematical one difference, which is that the total amount you're paying in the fund is 25%, so you have 15 in the first, 5 in the second. But in 100% when you put it, it's 25% and you have 10% of total pensions. So that's one thing. And the other, one very simple question. Why don't I put that 5% into government bonds. Why do I need the bank to take a commission? Why wouldn't I have the right to invest in government bonds without a bank commission and everything's fine. Then it would be my private property, and I would have it in my possession. But it doesn't, it doesn't work that way. The second pillar is designed for someone else to take the money, not for the benefit of a future pensioner. That's the fact. So this is only designed because it is one product of the bank, a financial product from which only the banking system will benefit, unfortunately the pensioners will not. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1419	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1420	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Spick for the replica. If it's true that you claim we'll never have the resources we have in the second pillar, then it's a serious theft, and you need these doubts if you think they're right and you need to report to someone that they're starting to act as soon as possible. Why don't you have the right to me or anyone who pays in the second pillar to invest in certain shares of that 5% or possibly pay that 5% into the third voluntary pension column so that we know what we have. I think someone already said in the debates because we're protecting the citizens. Because it is difficult for a citizen with a minimum salary or salary to single out three, four or five thousand kunas to invest in the stock or to single out those 5% to pay a monthly or quarterly or half-yearly or annual rent for a third pension insurance because his salary is not enough for him to survive the whole month. Therefore, it is one protection. What we've been asking all along and what I'd like to get an answer is exactly what you said in the end. Which of these benefits? That's why we're looking for a particular simulation, which is why we're looking for a specification of the cost of a society that manages it. If you pay the rewards to members of the administration, employees, if it is paid in million funds, it comes from some accumulated means, so from the 0.45 or how much. If you still take external consultants and external experts who tell you how and where to invest, then these are all the costs for which the owner of these money companies have the right to know where to spend. Here's what I'd like to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1421	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1422	Dear fellow Tirelli, I must tell you some information that you have asked as a question in your presentation. Therefore, mandatory pension funds do not pay pensions, they are paid by a pension insurance company that is the only Raiffeisen pension insurance company in the Republic of Croatia. In 2010, there were over 3,000 pension payments from the second pillar. They were very small because of the shortness of savings, and most of the people who were in that status paid into the second pension column voluntarily. At that time, it was amended to allow those who were then retired to step out of the second pension column to exchange their assets for increased rights, to make an addition of 27% to their pension because it was to exercise a more favourable right. That right has 90,000 more who have volunteered to retire, and they are not yet retired, which is just about to retire. They will have the right to decide, trade their assets for increased rights the day they retire. That's all those who were over 40 in 2002 and less than 50 years old. Secondly, the owners of 75 billion kuna are not banks but Croatian citizens. So the banks aren't the owners of anything. Banks have profits because they own these pension fund management companies and these 320 billion. What's pure profit from these societies is the profits of their owners. 75 billion kuna, their owners are citizens of the Republic of Croatia in individual accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1423	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1424	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues for the replica, and I thank you also by warning me that they are paying off a retired insurance company. I know they're not making funds. I know they're keeping company. We only have one thing. But when you talk about banks, I know that banks aren't the owners of 75 billion, but I also know that these foreign banks, through companies that manage funds, make a certain profit. And that's what I warned you about, and I think we understand each other very simply. What we want, what we want and what I said it would be good for our citizens who have those 75, who own these 75 billion kunas, to know that these 125 people in the societies that manage their assets are spending that part of the money that's being made out of their contributions. Here's the only question I wanted, the one I want to get an answer to, and who I think they want to get it to all those who pay their money in the second pension column. And I think that's the kind of transparency that funds like to boast that a citizen has the right to see how much money he has, how much money he's making, how much money he's expected, and all that stands for. But it's also transparency and this second part of the medal that I'd like to say in the end is now a very transparent business of the fund, and so is business society in a way that we see where certain funds are spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1425	Thank you. There's an individual debate coming up. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1426	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, we will be able to continue this where we are about to stop because I will try to give as much information as possible in my individual debate on details as possible to better understand the system. I'm not a lawyer again, and I don't want to be a lawyer for mandatory pension funds. They have to defend themselves, they have to give all the reports that ultimately we ask or conclude and I don't intend to speak on their behalf either, but I think I have the right to defend my views no matter how different they are from, say, a million and 200 thousand present pensioners. Because we're not talking about current pensioners here, we're talking about pensioners who are just about to become and will be in the future. That's what we're talking about. And on the 9th point, we will discuss when it comes to the agenda, or when we are here soon, probably the second week about pillar I and the current pensioners. So that's the difference. Now, I wish these people were set up here, if they were put up by the government, this, that, but that's not how it works. These people are presidents of pension fund management companies, they have to have proper licenses, they have to work on certain global financial criteria and they have different principles of their profits. Their earnings, of course, should be linked to the profit of compulsory pension funds. It would be inappropriate for her to be unconnected to profit. But the fact is, we're gonna have to talk about two things here, put it on the scale. 6.5 billion dollars in citizens' accounts compared to 320 million kunas in total costs. That's what they cut off the entry fees and everything else. Of these 320 million 240 remains for them for their expenses. Look, we can ask them to give it to us but it's their own private stories, whether it's worth it or not, whether it's a profit or not. This job, someone for a salary of 12,000 kuna, is not going to work for you. You have to be aware of that, both of you and me and everyone else. So of course there's a big risk, there's also a big responsibility. Of course the wages are much higher. And we're not discussing here the presidents of the administration appointed by the government or the ministry or anyone. They were appointed by their owners to manage and fertilize funds. How many will they pay? They will decide. We can find out this information that's available to us. Let's not think that we have to have everything under control and that we have to understand everything. As a member of a fund, you get an annual report as to how much your contributions are. You can inform yourself in another fund, you can cross if the offerings there are different. For the first time for free, the second time has a price. You can choose between years of age under portfolios whether more risky or less risky. We're talking about what happened here today. to the financial industry, although I think it's the financial sector, in a way we're saying it's only for young and future generations, but I can tell you that I've met a lot of pensioners whose banks have offered in the conversation whether they want to have a simple savings savings of 2% of interest, or whether they're going to give their savings to investment funds with a higher risk, a lower risk and a higher contribution with a possibility, so it's not the kind of savings that they have to commit, etc. And I'm pleasantly surprised how many people listen to the advice of the bank and it's in this story that we're discussing today. Investment funds are nothing more than these. Only these operate under a special law, they are part of the pension system and the investment is part of the financial system pure. Both are under the supervision of the HANFA regulator. So of course we can find 100 remarks on different details. But look if I said earlier in the club exposure that our citizens have 190 billion kuna savings, when you divide it into 4 million and 400,000 citizens, then they've spent their entire lives collecting an average of 43,000 kuna savings. These millions and 700 thousand people who save in II. In 14 years, the pillar collected an average of 42,851 kuna of savings. Is that a bad job? I don't know, but it's an analysis job. It's a job that we need to study it with care not to get a flat rate. Of course you have to go into detail, we have to go to an individual level. We know reliably that savings in II. It doesn't pay off with the low-income ones because these are the low-income contributions of this 5% and ultimately it won't be a big pension. But again I return you to my presentation on behalf of the club, the first and second pillars are complementary two pillars of the same system, the same pension system. Where one starts, the other ends or where one has a problem must be the first. So in the future, both systems will jointly define minimum incomes. If it is less than from the second pillar, of course the state will have to intervene, of course it will have to intervene and pay its mistakes for the mass payment of the lowest salaries and part of the wages below the table. Of course they'll have to intervene. The state can't run away from responsibility even in that case. And I'm talking about II. I don't talk to the pension column in a way that everything in the future will be idyllic. People won't, we'll have problems, but we'll solve them. I know that some solutions are difficult, as counterpart Schuker says, those 40 billion are difficult for the budget of all these 12 years to pay in total, it's hard. But it's part of the debt, part of the constitutional principle of equality between our citizens, that our pensioners can't have someone who retired three months later have a 10% lower pension. It's a question of fairness, the constitutional principle of equality. So we're serious and responsible people, and we're not going to solve all the problems with this report, so maybe we'll just open them up. There will be a need for intervention in laws and mandatory pension funds as well as for intervention of the Pension Insurance Act, so that basic law to ensure such social security in the time to come. Are we the good weather forecasters that are coming? We don't know what's gonna happen, but we'll have to face it when it comes. So it's better to have something than not to have anything in that story. If we wait for the time to come empty pockets, then we will be much harder than if we have something that we can maneuver or steer. I'll cut it short, my mouth is a little dry already, I'm talking a lot, but that's what I wanted to say, so we're going through the replicas to build on this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1427	Thank you. We have three replicas. She's the first law-abiding representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1428	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Hrelja, I really have nothing against the president of the administration, the company that sits here in front of us, however, but I also believe that those whose money these gentlemen manage have the right to obtain some information. That's all I said... That they must give information to those whose money they so manage. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's all I said. And I really don't see any reason for you to get so mad at it because I have nothing against them. The other thing is, you said we shouldn't be evaluating and that we had to study and analyze well. That's exactly what I said in my debate on behalf of the club and asked us not to rush, not to express our views, unargumented because we're making a big mess in a 16-year-old as it says. So from the whole crowd at the end we know even less, and since you matter as far as I hear and see you know very well, I suggest that you, as president of the Croatian Pensions Party, make one quality public debate with the gentlemen, with all those who pay in the second pension column. To create a nice scheme where we will get a lot of answers and try to answer as many questions as possible of our citizens and of all those who are interested. The third thing you said with low wages doesn't pay for the second pension column and that's what's worrying. You mentioned the gray economy and that's what's worrying. So that's the data where we have to do the analysis and that's what I said to make it good in the reports to see. What are the incomes that are in the plus, which are the receipts that are due to which pensions are going to be minus?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1429	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1430	Dear colleague Tyrelli, I don't know if we know each other very well, I don't know where you get me to get mad, I speak a little more temperately like this, but there's really no anger, I'm ready to take part in an argument until morning. And yet I will not defend the representatives of the funds, but I will speak my mind. So they're working with what comes to them, so they're not looking for their clients, they're bound to have clients because the state has told all the younger... They don't spend, okay, since when there's a portfolio then they ask each other to do competition and look, okay they communicate but they don't, they don't negotiate savings in the second pension column individually. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's set up as a system. So it's set up as a system and there's no need for these actions. And secondly, look, we are now talking about the weaknesses of the system, the minimum salary or the minimum salary, and why is it paid and if something is paid under the table, and you know that there are gray economies, do you think that there are representatives of compulsory pension funds here, or management companies, that they are invited to point out to us representatives in the Croatian Parliament, or should we, in some other discussions and initiatives, submit it independently? And the third thing, there was and there will be two and three debates each year with the social partners, discussions at the meetings of the financial industry as they love each other, I say again to the financial sector, where you can if you want to know everything how everything works. I don't say I know everything yet, I don't even learn fat, and I keep finding out where I still lack knowledge. I'm no expert on these things, but I'm trying to understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1431	Thank you. The next replica, the distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1432	I didn't mean to replicate it because I'm having an individual discussion right now, but you've really gone too far, so I have to. You've become a bit subjective, excuse my impression. Even in some part, I feel like you're in a different way. I'm talking about the impression. You know what the hardest job is when you talk about bonuses and you need to pay them what income they make, you know serious people and serious economists who consider the hardest job in economic activity? Production activity exporting final products to the international market. It's the hardest job possible, why? Because they are the most exposed competitors on the market. When we talk about bonuses and high wages, which you justify, it is asked, the question is, how many fund managers are exposed to the market? How much effort did they make to get the job? How much are they at risk? 70% are investing in government bonds. The law has prescribed what they must do and they have a safe interest on government bonds. You're now saying that it's the most stressful job and that should be paid the most and depend on a successful contribution that they almost don't affect. Almost where they invested except in the bonds of the Republic of Croatia experienced most of the fiasco. And later on, I'll tell you what companies. So the more responsible business, the more complex business is exactly the FINA's of leading under these conditions legally arranged to do and which provides them with a secure fee of 3 billion kuna in these 11, 12 years, the more stressful the FINA is on the market and the more stressful it is to provide a salary than 3 billion kuna fees to pay for 95% of the employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1433	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1434	Dear colleague Maric, I may have given you reason to give your replica to my presentation, but you were talking about something I didn't say. Neither are they, that this is the most, I don't know the most risky and stressful job, nor did I consider them, so here the president is the management of the pension fund management company that my God is stressful to them every day, I don't know where you read it, or that I'm subjective to them. I'm trying best to clarify my views, I'm very tolerant of the debates of others, I'm only responding to what's in my ears and I don't agree with it. Of course, from you too, I have always respected you, and I will respect all that is supported by arguments and there is no dilemma. Our relationship doesn't change in that sense. I don't know, maybe I was speaking a little bit of a pre-emperamental thing, so maybe you got the impression that I was protecting someone here, I don't know why, and what possible interest. I also belong to that group that, when I get the pension conditions, will have to decide whether I want a pension under the general rules and a second pillar, or if I'm going to replace it for an increase in the law of the first pillar. Therefore, I have no reason to glorify one position or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1435	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Milivo Spik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1436	A colleague of Hrelja himself said publicly that because of the second pension stake, 70% of the pensioners will have fewer pensions, but that it is the first pillar. But two things fall into my ear and I have to mention them because two things a colleague of Hrelja pointed out, which is that the six point is something billion. And when we say that we have 70 and something in the second pension column, when we take 14 years to pay in the second pension column and they offer, there's no money. Not a bit, enough. And the other thing, my colleague Hrelja, as I don't know why, is using twice today information that says that we have 190 billion savings in Croatia. And who's saving it? Is that the 300 thousand unemployed? And there could be 350,000 blocked, and they must have saved something, like a billion. And maybe this million and 200,000 pensioners with two thousand kunas. And certainly hundreds of thousands of workers who work for the minimum wage and this average salary. And I would be very interested in this fact, 190 billion savings, how many people have, say, 80% of this amount. Don't make it happen in the end that there's enough fingers on these two hands. And then we boast that in Croatia it's not so bad, because we have 190 billion savings, hello, and public debt slightly larger than that, and what's now a problem, we match it. Let's not play with the data that we're going to start slowly pulling out those who've been bailing out. I don't think they'll like it. And against my colleagues here nothing, however, they are nice to me, I trust them, and if this law is passed 6+6 they will meet me on the first day of my term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1437	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1438	Dear fellow Spika, if you are not aware of this, the elections were on November 8th last year and there is no need for a pre-election campaign, we can freely and prove who is smarter or who is a dumber representative of Croatian pensioners. And all I know is that I got the support of 6 grand 154 preferential votes, that you and 131 have nothing to add or subtract. But I want to point out that as a fact of saving Croatian citizens because I know that Croatian citizens are valuable and yours is to analyze. I'm glad that it burned your ears, that you try to think about the fact and whether there is a solution to the Republic of Croatia as well as these 75 billion savings in the second pension column, or how you interpret it is a really big problem for the Republic of Croatia. I can't accept that that's the way it is. And never on this land which is a country of opposites this money has ever been and nowhere properly distributed by the principle of equalizers. There were always people who were saving more, who knew more, who knew how to turn money and there were those who gambled everything, blew it away, etc. So we can't really have personal responsibility for saving, and so can the second pension pillar when people decide how to spend it, on which deadline they'll take a pension, etc., that's not exactly what we can decide. I just know that around this story that we have ahead of us if we're creative, if we think we can get more pluses than a minus. If we destroy it then we no longer have any choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1439	Thank you. Next in an individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1440	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So when it comes to pension reform and the second pension pillar, then I must conclude that a huge 1,000-mile step has been made because after 13 years we have a chance to discuss these reports. And that's already a big deal. I hope there will be no here to discuss this report and the situation, and as circumstances are created media and here it turns out politically that heresy is to say that it is contrary to the main protagonists of that system. I don't judge anything in advance, but if it's a matter of taking care of a man, if it's a concern for old age, then I can't go ahead without fences and accept a legal solution that makes it impossible for the right to choose, and there's no right to choose. Even if they don't choose from these four pension funds, then they set it up themselves, they have to go where they want to go. The law came up with everything, but let's let the remaining arguments be, there was no value for alternatives and there was no choice of alternatives based on the value of alternatives. We only have one alternative. It has been shown that we need to discuss all the shortcomings in the legal solution and the functioning of mandatory pension funds, because it is irrefutable that certain shortcomings have been shown. But this does not mean that someone is against the second pension stake because they have observations and suggestions that it is not a legal solution and that the problem is in the functioning of these other pension pillars. A man is young in the hands of his parents, in maturity in his hands, and in the hands of a pension fund manager. That is why this is a very serious problem that we need to seriously discuss and talk about in a reasoned manner and analyze everything. When it comes to reports in all four reports, we are overwhelmed by the macro-economic environment in which pension funds operate. Well, it's known everywhere in any macroeconomic, whatever bulletin we take, we have a macroeconomic report. What's the CNB report? 70% of the macroeconomic environment. I'm interested in more content. We can learn everything from the report about the macroeconomic environment, but we can't find out the conditions and actually see the structure of the financial result, the structure. And in order to know that, a special report on all the realised and unrealised losses of investments in corporate and government debt securities is needed, and there is no such thing. It would be interesting to see how they valued investment in some corporations in Nexa Group, in Optima Telecom, in Dalekovod, in Ingra, and in Dalekvod was even one of these present and chairman of the Supervisory Board, and we know that all these companies failed and ended up in bankruptcy. Don't just answer me that you've written this in accordance with international accounting standards. The law prescribed that it be invested in government bonds, and those who manage 75 billion kuna, 70% of which are not government officials. Let's imagine who all government officials are, and those who run this kind of property aren't government officials. We trust our destiny throughout a third of our lives to people, and I'm not saying they're not capable, that they're not qualified, that they're not all but people we don't know anything about, that we don't know anything about, that we don't know about, that we don't know about qualifications, that they're qualified, that they're prone to, or what they have, or how much property they have, how much they have, how much they earn, what they spend, what they're used to. Otherwise, for state officials, it would be desirable to finally introduce one obligation to test on addiction because I no longer know who works in what institution, because some decisions are made that can be linked to addiction and with the highest state institutions. We have, we need proof of impunity, and we can't tell if anyone might be addicted to opiates and we're giving them that responsibility. And managers of compulsory pension funds, i.e. management companies, are a couple of excellence state officials according to the structure of their work and value and what they manage and what the purpose of that existence is. Imagine it's all in the hands of all the citizens of retirement. I was lucky, I may have made a mistake, so I didn't sign up for a second pension column, but I chose that it was a possibility that it might be the same separation on savings in a Croatian postal bank that I couldn't raise before I retired and that would systematically rise to death, and if something remains after death that my heirs could raise, I would choose that variant because I would be safer than I would otherwise be more prone to gambling, but we are not able to choose. Imagine changing the law, only those who have five years of experience in the management or the pension fund supervisory board can sit on the supervisory board. It means that no one can control it. It means they can control themselves. It's not a legal natural solution. All the funds don't run the same. From 2003 to 2015 we have all three funds are almost 6% yields 5.99, 5.98, 5.91. That means 0.5% or 1% and only one 5.11 fund. A whole period of 17% lower yields in one fund than in three others. The question to a serious man is why is that, and everyone invests, here's all 70 percent of the bonds. Obviously, not everyone spends the same. Obviously, not everyone behaves equally, that everyone equally invests in corporate bonds. But when we connect what fund it is with the companies in which it was invested, then there's some connection from the Metronette, the NEXE group, the Dalevode and the others. And it was known when they invested in these companies that they had already failed. Compensation 3 billion kuna from 2003 to 2015. Is it here to say that your fees are too high? 2.5 billion fees based on total assets and 500 million kunas of entry fee. 320 million kuna in one year alone, for 95 employees. I think it is, the need to amend the legal framework is imposed. If not imposed, although Mr. Hrelja says no one will work for 15 thousand kunas this job, it may not be for 15, but if we know that millions of kunas in management companies are spent on education, millions of kunas for representation, millions of kuna for marketing services, what did it take? Propagating investments in the bonds of the Republic of Croatia, what has the law prescribed? And we have no insight into any expense, but we just prescribed how much they must surely get. And one of the owners told one of the board members when he was banned from paying off bonuses because it was just about this company that did the worst business to cut him off with an axe. Imagine a dictionary in such serious problems. I think it's time for us all to seriously consider the state of pension funds and to take a serious public debate with arguments not only for others and against others, but some other pension column, in which form, how to manage it, who manages it, how to monitor and how much compensation to be, and in particular, legally regulate after death. Anyone with any understanding and more serious approaches to law-reading will see that this area is completely undefined, absolutely undefined and that everything is left to one side to decide whatever decision it makes is legally acceptable. But I don't think it's socially acceptable or of general interest. It didn't work out at all what happens to pensions when a man dies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1441	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1442	Well, dear colleague Maric, I really appreciate your way of dissectioning the whole issue, and that's good. It is good to publicly express dissatisfaction, be specific, and it is certain that any system can be upgraded and reassessed. And I'm glad you pointed out one part that's not well enough solved but I think if you agree with me, and I hope you agree that this property with a delay in availability then with that property you need to create assumptions that a man who saved up with and his family only use it in the event of death. So there are a lot of other situations if it doesn't go below some social minimum that you can allow someone to have their own property. I agree that there should be changes to the legislation in this direction. In this second part of possible failures, possible risks, look, I don't have that much knowledge here, but if you have any doubts, you know what the address is to address if anything is suspicious. What I just can't accept, look at these people here in front of us are people if you Google you'll find out everything about them and where they're born and what schools they've finished and what licenses they have and where they have specialization and everything. A lot more than our Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1443	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1444	It is not true that they know much more than about the Prime Minister, at least the Prime Minister had to submit the property card to the Committee for Conflict of Interest and detail there to record what both you and I and all, many, as many as 3,000 officials. But I'm just saying that we don't know anything about people whose fate is our third life. Not their qualifications. Well, there's a résumé on the Internet, but we don't know what they have, how they have, what they're used to, how they spend and what they spend. When you said it was somewhere for another address, wastelessness wasn't a punishable act. I'm not talking about a felony. ... Well, that's not it. I wasn't even talking about a felony. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The risk of investment is a risk of investment but there are different risks. No, I'm neither accusing anyone nor having the idea that someone did something punishable, I'm talking about other things. But I'm interested in how they trade and value government bonds. On which segment of Zagreb Stock Exchanges are traded and how many transactions the bond price is formed. But here's the answer, and I don't need an answer based on one transaction. But then it's non-transparent, then it's not marketable and you know what it's like? Then that's the deal. And I don't agree to that. And in that sense alone, I suggest that we think, open up the debate and see all the problems that we've found ourselves in because of a legal bad solution, not because of the need or need of that system. When the first payoffs come in 2025 let's do it before they come, so we don't wait for all the troubles to meet us then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1445	Thank you. Further in an individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1446	Dear Vice-President, honourable MPs, the representatives of the Most Independent Lists see the pension system as an extremely important topic, and we, in our economic programme, have promised the public that we will open a public debate on this very important issue. What this public debate will show is whether to freeze the second pension column, whether it needs to be abolished, or whether people should be allowed to decide voluntarily whether they will be inside or not, since then, but that public debate should be launched as soon as possible. And I am happy, for the first time in the Parliament, that the Parliament has for the first time the opportunity to discuss this, and that is a great progress on things, to discuss the things in which Croatia was one of the experimental rabbits in transition countries, and that is the pension system. Why is the pension system important? Well, in 1990, three workers worked for one pensioner, and today we heard 1.2 and even 0.8. We see that it's the alarm bell and that we have a deep crisis and a difficult patient called the pension system. More specifically, 35 billion needed funding for the annual payments of all pensions is missing about 17 billion. So we see that at the level of a year if there was nothing else, half the pensioners wouldn't get a pension at all. Now that you have a finding that the patient, that you have a chronic lack of 50% of the money, now this savings experiment in the second pension column sounds very interesting. This is where Dr. Maric listed a whole series of arguments that I support and some of them I thought and said, so I'm going to skip. But one thing you would say is two types of debate, one that respects arguments that is a scientific, professional debate, you check man and present. Another who has no arguments is then she's an ideological character or she comes out of a feeling so you appreciate someone, you love, you don't like them, you don't like them. So in this context it would really be very important that, I will ask my father whether it will be the next session in two, three months or to send a written request that mandatory pension funds be apparent about what their realised and unrealised gains are as well as losses. So structurally, let's see, because there are certain doubts here, and what we've heard from Dr. Marić is specific information or investment in certain companies, so let's see how successful these results really are or aren't, that we get means that this means that it's no longer being manipulated in public. So someone here said that the Croatian profession, the economic profession is divided into respect of the second pension pillar and pension system. Well, I wouldn't say it's divided because why, on the one hand, we have experts performing petitions in this let's say the debate. The expert is a scientist he's going to perform with arguments, not with a petition, right? So he objected to them why you didn't write petitions when the privatised banks, when Croatia's insurance was privatised, etc. That's when you kept your mouth shut. In this context, I personally believe that it is necessary to review the pension system, the current divisions on these pension pillars, and repeat whether they are frozen, abolished or given to people to make voluntary decisions? Here was the debate on whether the separation in the second retirement column was a savings? You see when the decision was made to even establish these pillars as I recall no one had the freedom to decide whether to save or not. The Parliament decided, you could only decide if you wanted to, you had to study in the second pension column, you could only decide which pension fund bonder and nothing more. So it was forced to do so, so why not have the right even after a parliamentary debate if it shows that it simply comes back. The SDP and the lady here from Zadar have a fantastic marketing performance to say beyond our means. I have to give you a round of applause now, it sounds great, but there's nothing behind it, actually you're cheating on the public, right? And now I'm going to tell you a few things. So we have forced, it's not even forced savings because saving is an act of goodwill to say yes or no. Mr. Spika said no one can afford that savings from us. And take a life insurance policy, if it's 20 years old, it's 20 years old, you get a major increase in the yield and you can buy a car, you can go ask a question, you can't do anything here. Then they say it's delayed means for the future to come into the future, so as far as the state budget is concerned, it's for the future and it's eternal. Now, what's interesting here, what if some mandatory pension fund fails? You see pension systems are in crisis, the crisis of pension funds has begun everywhere in the world, in the EU, which if it fails, who will calm down because there is growing turbulence, turbulence in international financial markets. It can be said that the second pension column is very expensive and the first pillar, I can prove it to you but in 10 minutes I can't, but I'm willing to participate and I'll participate in the discussions that are being organised. Well, you could say that's kind of the country's interest rate, if that's the case. Property, liabilities and pension funds in the state are bonds of about 55 billion kuna if I read it correctly. Now someone would say what it is, what property it is. It's bonds, it's debt in the hands of mandatory pension funds and gentlemen it's soap opera. You have a claim from a state that doesn't have half a pension to pay. Here in public, some people have problems with elemental logic. So the long state pays back the debt. I repeat to the debt of the state to pay back the debt and in 5 years, 6 we will have the property of demanding compulsory pension funds to the state at the level of one annual budget. On the other hand, or citizens, is that so. What else do you say about this? And now my friend Martinovic, a man who, lawyers, has great logic as well as engineers, tells me, Ivan, it's like the state has five billion guns a year with 5% in the branch office on Mark's square and then goes to headquarters to look for a 17 billion kuna loan, right? So much for that. Gentlemen, if we're going to have a scientific conversation, professionally why one of the Czechs didn't agree to this experiment at all, they didn't go into it at all. Why one Poland, it nationalised 37 billion euros, returned to the first, to intergenerational solidarity, why Hungary gave up, Slovakia, other countries are neither Slovenia nor Serbia, you understand, etc. In this context, we must therefore respect these arguments and practices that are from us. I'm glad I came to this Croatian Parliament, you saw recently when I brought this one out, so it's more difficult for me to have a burst of fire, isn't it? I'm glad we've opened this topic, it's already a major breakthrough that we're going to come up with in the debate, but I'm asking you an argument, not an ideological one, not an interesting one, which is what we're going to come up with. Retirement funds, so the people's army has been sent into retirement. All of what was a problem with unemployment through disability, early retirement was sent to the pension system, and now it came at a checkout. When we talk about the management of pension funds, it would be good to see if members of managers, whether they are in the system of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest or whether they are reporting to the Croatian public about their status because it is a very important thing. He said, "Dr. Maric, there are no representatives of Mr. Hrelja citizens in the supervisory committees, means closed circle, society, etc. And to tell you the truth, I'm running out of time. Only arguments, an expert scientific debate, if there is no such thing, then there is ignorance. And Goethe said that the most destructive knowledge was taken, and in Croatia there is a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1447	Thank you. We have five replicas. The first is Honorable representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1448	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Lovrinovic that some people say that the scientific and professional public is divided. I think even if it wasn't even divided, we just have those who want to discuss it and those who forbid to discuss it. Let's start from the facts, all countries are in transition in crisis but all except Croatia have briefly suspended, frozen payment until further notice in the second pension column. I won't say if it's good or bad, but I don't accept it's bad without an argument, or that it's good without an argument. And we haven't had any serious discussion and no argument as to why it's bad or why it's good. I encourage that I accept no one's position in advance without arguments. The public debate is normal but as soon as you appear in public with this idea petitions is a lack of discussion and a Stalinist method. And you can't be a scientist... who writes petitions and doesn't discuss... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then let's go back to the period after 1918, and we'll live in that environment and write petitions and trick the heads of those who think differently. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm about to hear against you crucify him, crucify him to the crowd shouting. Just because you opened the topic. But again, I'm saying, I don't agree with you guys maybe in something, but I agree that we need to discuss it and reach a conclusion that's good, which is bad. Says when... Buying the company, they'll invest 100m euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what if he doesn't? We don't have that. You asked the question, the pension fund could fail. Well, it can't fail. But what if it fails? We didn't define it. The need for definition is imposed and what if it happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1449	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1450	Well, now you're Dr. Crescent. Marić was well told, in fact I agree with you about this way of communicating with petitions, and I thought that period ended as when a half a year ago, they asked Professor Jakovcevic and I to move from the Faculty of Economics because we opened the story of Frank, or the behaviour of the Croatian National Bank. Gentlemen, the second pension column is a broken product similar to the Swiss franc. It would be good, and I remind those who will be doing a state budget for next year to take this account. Why? So all that remains is the second pension column, how can you ask this country for a 5% contribution that is in serious trouble, its economy in recession, how can you ask for 5%? So why aren't you asking for 2% so here it's absolutely clear. Well, after all, that offering is 10% how you'll be sure to get it when... in a sick economy like this that may not be able to pay off the principal, and we're saying, we look forward, people like children are looking forward to getting 5 or 10% of the donations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a big danger here. This directly affects the deficit of the state budget, directly affects the size of the public debt. And just one more sentence. Those who say it's an accounting operation and don't mind coming here, let them prove it to us, in front of the scientific professional public or on the board and here on the Croatian National Assembly, national interests should be defended here in this case of large populations and workers who single out and pensioners. Here we must make hungry decisions, but only on the basis of arguments. I'll fight for it. We at MOST are looking for an open debate without advance decisions, but that it is not a pressure that they are not petitions, because it is violence against profession and science.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1451	Thank you. Second Replicated representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1452	Mr. Lovrinović, as an introduction to the replica, I will tell you today exactly one month after the constitution of this House, for the first time I enjoy the discussion proudly that I am a parliamentary representative because this for the first time looks like one discussion as I imagined it, means open opinions, where people within a club Mr. Hrelja, Mrs. Tyrelli, Mr. Shuker, Mr. Špica may not have the same opinions, and they open that up. And I think that's the way together we should come across the arguments to some solutions. I personally considered the second pillar of retirement insurance to be one of the civilization's liquids to say it. So that was my belief to these arguments. Now that I hear that in fact these same money from the employer actually over a few intermediaries come back to that same country that they're paying, some have expenses with those intermediaries, they have and pay some interest because they're in charge of those amounts on the side doesn't seem like it anymore. I'm not an economic expert, but in any case, I'm glad we're going to find a better solution. What I'm going to do in my replica is actually ask one question to you that's dragging me through all of this. Is it even possible that, regardless of having only one pillar or two pillars without a higher birth rate, we have any sustainable solution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1453	Thank you for this excellent question. The demographic image of Croatia is corrupting, the pyramid has turned from this shape and it leads upside down. Therefore, it leads to the collapse of the pension system because it will not be a broad base that will earn meanings for the growing group above. Which is the only real way out of this will now sound like a phrase of strong growth of gross domestic product, production and that is demographic growth. We entered one zone of collapse because we saw that 1:2, let's say 1:1 it's an unsustainable pension system, gentlemen, and it can't be maintained by fog where the state will make money, charge interest and it's alone in the mud. So, gentlemen, it's soap opera.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1454	Thank you. The next distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1455	Dear fellow Lovrinović, we met for the first time in the negotiations with the Croatian coalition growing when the topic was and we said, I expressed my enthusiasm that we would open a public debate on the sustainability of the second pillar, the entire pension system, etc. At the same time, however, you place certain claims without a reasoned debate, and you point out some courts. That's not forbidden, but it's good to know who has the attitude, to make counter arguments when we're in an open and public discussion about it. What I wouldn't agree with is that petition is some kind of staleistic method. Well, petition is a democratic method. In these 25 years, I have signed at least thirty for various things to civil associations, unions, citizens, or civil associations, and what is the problem. Maybe it's some lack of arguments or a way to force the public through petitions to get attention. But I don't think it's some method that's not democratic anyway. I look forward to these discussions about the sustainability of the entire pension system, and especially the second pension column because as you say we have not one virtual, Mr. Bulj leave the man to listen, we don't have only one virtual system. There are others. And in first generation solidarity, isn't there a fund where money is saved and pension paid. It's about current transfers. All that is lacking from living work towards past work is compensated from tax revenues. So there's no dilemma. We have two virtual systems. So we have to approach each other in the same way. So, I'm looking forward to it, it'll certainly be an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1456	Replication response, esteemed Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1457	Here's what I'm looking forward to. Let's move on with the arguments. Mandatory pension funds are prescribed to invest one part and to invest in domestic foreign shares. If I read the reports correctly, then cumulatively somewhere around 10 billion kunas are invested in foreign stocks. Right? Maybe 9, 10, but I apologize if I make a mistake. Gentlemen, do you know how much that is? We could have made five Peljek bridges, so let the pension funds if they do that charge the bridge. They could have bought HAC, someone here said, I don't know who said it from the speaker, so let them charge, let them pay the toll. It's a debate, it's arguments, not like I like to say no hollow stories, that no one is offended, just so much to tell. And the second thing, the petition in scientific circles shows the insufficiency of the scientific force of ideas, it is a sign of weakness and therefore let's wake up in a crowd. Why? Let's hear from each other without hearing the voice of reason, but rather the voice of the crowd, that is, not to say a more solid word. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1458	The next replica is the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1459	Thank you. My colleague Lovrinović, I agree with you that there should be a serious debate on everything. '98. The year here in Parliament and I myself participated in this, a reform of the pension system was discussed because at that moment after the war, after privatisation, we suddenly had an inflow into the pension fund of 400 thousand people. With 600 grand from the early '90s on almost a million pensioners. And it had to be something. At that time, a very serious debate was held not only in the Croatian Parliament, many European countries at that time because of the ageing population, because of lower economic results opened the debate. I know there was a heated debate in the Italian Parliament and some other parliaments at the time. Then we decided it was the best solution to introduce three pillars, two mandatory and one optional, so everyone saves for themselves. There was talk of a deposit in II. Retirement column of 5%. That was fine for a start. But we didn't start either in '99, or in 2000, it seems to me 2001 or 2002. Shuker knows better than anyone. In 2002, we started paying. So cut this first retirement stake and pay 5 into the second. It's unsustainable to pay only 5% in II for 10 years. Retirement column. Count, 40 years times 5, 20% we'll only pay for pensions. Not enough. And if it turns out now that it's not good, we need to reopen the debate and I think we need to open a debate on a government programme that just wrote, we're going to stabilise the pension system. How, in what way?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1460	Replication response, Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1461	Well, Mrs. Zgrebec, you're a little bit familiar now, one true history of the political scene and the Parliament, and I really think I'll have a lot of things from you and learn as well as other colleagues and colleagues who have been here for a long time. The debate you well said in other economies it is constantly going on and it will last because it is an open problem. Why did you make such a decision then, why didn't the Czechs? Were they crazy? Why did the Hungarians bring and give up? Why did the Poles bring and give up? Why Serbs? Serbia has not entered at all. And a whole series of Baltic countries. So that part is missing. And when you said that 5% of you thought it was a little bit, it's weird to me that you didn't make a decision, you actually had to go like this, that all 20% is being paid in the second pillar with 5% interest on government bonds, and now you know how much pension funds would have now? It's a hell of a lot, and the country would have fallen apart a long time ago. Why? It's about the cameras. So, ladies and gentlemen, think about this logical problem, the soap opera I told you about. So, it's a clean soap opera where saving is, by forceful savings, expected from someone to earn, from pension funds, on whom? In a country that's seriously ill that can't practically get it back. It's a basic logical problem and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1462	Thank you. The last replica of the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1463	My dear colleague, until yesterday, you were crying over the sufferings of the citizens, and now to the very states. And now you have a very interesting thesis that is rightly unmarked, and that will certainly be one contribution to legal history and fatigue. You're saying the savings are in II. The pension fund is forced savings, and precisely because it's a forced savings, you say it's not even savings. That's a really interesting interpretation. And you say what a shame, that these could be the state or the individuals who were saving, who were separating in II. The pension column gives such interest to the state. So it's a verbal one I don't know what to call it, your salto mortal, how to rip off II. Retirement column. Well, if I do. Retirement column is no good, please dismember it and return what they have invested to the citizens. Because otherwise everything is equal to that bank robbery with a gun just worse. Because that's where we know what it's all about. This government had the only screening programme for pensions, pension funds, and said, or systems, we will stabilise the pension system. Well, now... Yeah, that's what it stands for. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What does that mean? He says the prime minister will ensure a better life for the citizens. Is the new government really gonna act like a worker bee or a bumblebee who's gonna take that little honey out of that pole?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1464	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1465	Mrs Antičević-Marinović... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1466	Please, no comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1467	I'm glad to hear you, you have a good diction, and you have a firm speech. Temperative or lack of arguments. Your speech impresses a man by exactly what I said and I like to listen to you, that's why. Because it's rare for a woman to speak with such firmness. However, I say the thin arguments are yours, and here I am receiving as I am these days receiving as a thunderbolt from all sides of the blow, I will receive yours, and therefore I shall be responsible and guilty of all that your party or earlier has led, so where we are. So here's what I'll accept when I've received it all. So I'm going to try these humble discussions and other economists to finally get to this, and I'm particularly happy, you see that we're starting to talk about it, and as soon as we start having a good conversation, we're already halfway through that we're gonna work something out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1468	Thank you. And finally Milivo Spika on behalf of the HSLS-BUZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1469	Thank you very much. Perhaps you should say that the discussion of the second pension stake, of pensions at no time, can neither be a subject nor any ideological debate. So it's something that we all need to think about, or we should tend to think logically. What's the key question in all of this, which is who puts a normal 5 kuna on the bank, I'm going to say 5% interest and at the same time goes into another loan or loan for the same 5 or 6% interest again. What kind of logic is that? So something's wrong. And we said, and the fact is that the second pension column, however someone said it wasn't voluntary, is as voluntary as the first, is the one that did the legal regulation as defined it. What's the point of this debate here, and I'm glad he woke up a little bit from his hibernation and his colleagues from HSU, say he hasn't said anything in four years. If he's talked this much on previous topics, then it's great, I'd be glad to talk about it here as much as possible. So what the goal of this debate here was for me at least that's as much as possible and in different ways, because we're not all looking at the same thing, informing the interested. Most people, and even those who, on the basis of the second pension stake of one day, will, of course, receive a pension, do not know at all the first from the second, the second from the third or these three from each other, have no idea what it is, and even when they stated whether they were going to go to combination A, B or C 90 in each pension column, and it seemed to me that over 5.6% did not answer anything. That doesn't mean people aren't interested, people aren't informed, so they don't know. And here's what's the main theme of whether it's someone's property, if we say that property is something that someone's not limited and free to have, then it's not and we can't talk about it in that context and it's not going to happen here, so there's no need to be afraid that now someone's going to kidnap something, and then there's going to be someone who's going to protect our poor citizens who now someone's going to rob. No one has any intention of robbing or taking but we intend to open the debate, to see the justification of the operation of the second pillar in this way, and maximumly using the profession, we are all here primarily representatives politically but when we get to it, maximumly engage in the profession, in all this together and find a solution that will be good for everyone. At this point, the fact is that this is the best solution for banks that are freely available, whose managers share incredible bonuses, which have absolutely no risk and whose funds come with an extraordinary thing to close down some of their bad placements. Because let's say PBZ Croatia's insurance had a little bit less or little more come on than 350,000 shares of Petrochemy. They paid 62 million kuna in 2013. Today those shares are worth 12 times less. Are they so bad experts that in 2013, they didn't know how Petrochemy would end and what would be with it, I don't believe. But it's not the worst thing that the bank manages to do just that so the bank might return some of its bad jobs that she couldn't normally pay back, the company fails and there's nothing. And finally to answer to my colleagues, Hrelja. If the number of preferential votes were a quality of argument or evidence of the quality of the argument or anything, then it would be an excellent thing. We were in the tenth constituency playing who less a... who more. So I won, so, our list was second in all of Croatia. And as for the competition, who's smarter and who's dumber, there's no competition. You know that the higher the IQ to make this game a smaller number of votes, of course. So I'm glad that this debate has opened up and I believe that we'll all be able to find another much better solution than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1470	Thank you. Next final debate of the HSU club Stipe Petrina, Silvano, the distinguished representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1471	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President Proposers, no matter how grateful I am to my fellow Spiki for waking me up from my years of sleep, I will continue to stick to my foreign currency that it is better than much and stupid. But we have to realize that the fragile knowledge in this area is, I'm not very keen on knowledge, I'm willing to face what I know about this and what I don't know about the knowledge of other people and the ignorance of other people and be an active participant in the learning process. I just know that we, by the assessment of the financial sector and the global criteria at this point, have a stable pension system as regards the second pillar because we have crossed 20% of GDP into savings in the second pillar, which is the criterion when a country has a stable pension system, individual capitalised savings, long-term promising. This is where one finds that someone has to control these people. The government is setting up the first man of HANFA, not being appointed by anyone else, the government, we don't decide in the Parliament. At any moment it may have control over what is happening in the industry, HANFA is the regulator, HANFA is therefore in some way, participating even in the assessment of legislative acts that come into the Croatian Parliament, so it does not make them but gives its opinion. So the system has control. My people, if it were as bad as we've heard here, then we'd be a real soap opera or I don't know what else, or a scam of Norwegian and Scandinavian pension funds. They are today the strongest institutional investors. We have something that we can freeze, bring down or we can make them out of them on this territory, if we have good projects, institutional investors. Let's let the story go that the values are in the papers, but if that's in my name, I can ask for it. In the first pillar, if this Reverend and the High House gives me a law that reduces 20% of my rights, I can't do anything, which is possible, what happened, which may or may not happen again tomorrow, will happen again. So, I can't classify myself in position or-or, knowing one system and another, I'm putting myself on the side of the i-i, the first pillar of generation solidarity and the second pillar, pension savings, capitalised pension savings. So we both need them, and it's like complementary systems not opposing systems. So in that position and from that position I'm going to perform. I don't see the difference why I'd be grateful to the old pensioners for whom we've done a lot in previous mandates, a full 40 billion additional rights. Of course, that's what the governments realised, but that the Croatian party of pensioners asked for it and proposed what to do. And I'm extremely proud of that. But I have no right to do anything for the benefit of a group of pensioners but I must think about those who left before '99. Retired and after '99. in retirement and those who will be retired in 20 years to receive a decent pension, this time from both pillars. And all those anomalies that will come, because the system is not perfect, we are invited to change them, to correct them, to change the laws, to tighten the controls, that it cannot come to what Mr. Lovrinović was even talking about, very rightly, but I disagree with the approach. Because this isn't really a soap opera, and the word soap opera is not an argument for this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1472	Thank you. It's over. On behalf of the applicant Petar Vlaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1473	Respecting the chairman, distinguished MPs. I'd have to say first that I just don't have to tell you some experience showing up in front of the Parliament, that's my first time, so don't mind me if there's a little awkwardness. And now I'd go straight up, I'd like to thank you for the suggestions, there were a lot of suggestions in store. I think it's very good to open a debate on the second pillar, to open a debate on future projected pensions from the second pillar. I think it's something that we don't know all by ourselves, we have calculations, we've done them. These calculations show in fact that for someone who enters the system today and will be 40 years in the combined first and second pillar has an average salary, that there will be a pension from the second pillar compared to that 25% of pensions being paid into the second pillar, 75% in the first pillar, that the pension from the second pillar will be important, significantly higher than those 25%. I wouldn't want to talk about the actual numbers right now, we have the calculations. However, I think that this should be considered more and more. As far as the first pillar itself is concerned, the average Croatian salary now amounts to about 7200 kn, you are going, the employment ratio and pensioners is 1.1 at this time. So the average Croat in total in the first and second pillar is paid together by 1440 kuna if 10% more are working 'let's say that 1560 to 1600 kuna covers today pensions that are on average 2400 kuna. So there's a G, there's a void. That gap will spread. Croatia has several problems. Here maybe, I'll just watch my vision, we follow a lot, talk a lot with managers of other pension funds in the world and with demographics etc., Croatia has several problems. The first problem is a very unfavourable ratio of employees and pensioners. Another problem is the birth rate that is extremely low, one of the lowest in Europe. The third problem remains more people from Croatia, the working-age population is moving out than it is moving in. And the fourth problem, the big problem is that we don't see how that could solve it all together. I think either way, whatever direction we're going to go that we're going to be more singled out for pensions in the future than we're going to be together today and that pensions are going to be there somewhere or even lower. Today the debate opens in the European Union that Western Europe has a much better proportion of pensioners, much better than Croatia. Today the debate is opening to encourage voluntary pension savings, fostering what they call... encouraging individual pension savings. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] There we are much ahead of them, the third pillar of individual savings, the Western Europe is only now going in that direction. Today it is about sustainability and the adequateness of future pensions. Now I'd like to reflect on what's been said, maybe explain some more, maybe some things that may have been incorrectly spoken out. Yes, in Eastern Europe, Poland partially retarded and transferred to the first pillar of savings from the second pillar. Hungary as a whole, Slovakia has not, the Czech Republic has not decided yet does not mean it will not go in that direction, the Baltic countries, Romania, Bulgaria is saving everything. What may be very important to us, too, for the future of Great Britain, was headed to the second pillar in 2011. The country that has the largest voluntary pension savings in Europe, except for the Netherlands where there are mandatory practically in the Netherlands, decided to introduce a combined system first and second pillars, they know why. Now I'm going to take a turn. I'm going to reflect on some things. You stop me when I have to, if I'm gonna be too slow. ... All right. [[You can't hear it.]] Where are the pension funds invested? Mrs. Ilic asked that question. I think we're very transparent here. We have to publish reports, we have to publish our biggest investment on our websites. Any member who asks us to do so can be explained by a much deeper portfolio structure. Furthermore, all investments of Croatian pension funds in Croatian companies have been published precisely on the SKD. It's pretty transparent. Maybe what we're wrong about not communicating with the public is what we're allowing. We've heard this a few times about criticism from members and we're getting ready both as an association and as an industry that we're going to be much more active in the future. Yes, we all think, we agree what Mr. Shucker stated first, that we should present a simpler report to the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Hrelja is the same thing. We agree, it's too complicated, we'll change that. But you must continue to know that these are the reports of Croatian pension funds. We don't hide the business of pension societies, pension companies are transparent. Financial reports shall be made public. There you can see exactly the structure of the income, you can see the structure of the expenditure. I'd like to explain about the company's business another let's say it's not a misunderstanding, it's a misunderstanding. We have a certain fee for managing 0.42%. It will fall at a rate of 7% every year to 0.3% in the future. It will likely be even lower later and an entry fee of 0.8%. That's all the income we have. If we hire consultants, if we hire auditors, if we pay marketing, if we pay bonuses, it goes from the incomes of a company that is administratively determined. So the more we spend, the less it remains for our owners, not our members. Members know exactly what the fees are, the fees can be checked are very, very low compared to competition in Europe and the world. About that. Next, what I said to increase the isolation to the second pillar. I think in the future we're going to spend more on pensions to have the same pensions that I'm pretty sure of. Risky investments, yes, there were. I believe it will be in the future. What is so far the fact that most of these investments were before the financial crisis broke out when companies such as Ingra, such as Dalekovod when they were pro-pulsive companies, businesses with business abroad. And it's just that there's been a crisis, it's just that these companies have collapsed. That's where we lost the money. But what we're also gonna say is not positive, but what's... It was a small part of the pension funds portfolio. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you can't talk about some systemicly high risk. But it was and it will certainly be, I hope to a very, very low degree. As for the offering, the offerings are very high. I'd be happy if they were like that in the future. I'm sure there'll be negative years, of which I can't guarantee right now, I'm sure of it. But generally on a due date, it's important that we have good yields that are at least one to two percent above inflation. We had it for now on average 3.62%. Says no one asked for a pension from the second pillar, that's Mr. Spica I think he said. I think to a lesser extent that, to some extent, they're not and for several reasons. First, they were mostly people who, for the good part, were women who went into early retirement, who had low salaries and who also had a protective supplement on first-degree pensions, which is not obtained from the combined first and second pillars. That is also what we think is an injustice that should be eliminated in the future. We think that behind the one with low wages that will save longer than 10 to 15 years that the combination of pensions from the first and second pillars will be favourable, i.e. pensions from the second pillar will be proportionally higher than it would be in the first pillar alone. But that's all the stuff you said. Let's open the debate, I think the most important thing in this whole story is that we're doing pension projections from the combined first and second systems, definitely. Now the controversy has opened, is the property in the second pillar a personal property? Legally viewed property in the second pillar is personal property, personal savings. This personal property cannot be withdrawn before retirement. But also that personal property can never be completed in any case. There are several differences very important from the pension of the 1st pillar, in the event of the death of a member of the fund while he is active if there is no right to a family pension, that property is inherited in cash. As for when a certain man retires, four retirement models are also chosen. It can be selected or only pension personal normal it is always life-long or so in case of death that same pension can be inherited by a spouse. So, practically a spouse can have a pension from either I or II. He gets his own plus more pension from the second pillar of the deceased's spouse. So that's the difference. The third thing you two in the second pillar should never retire. You can, I mean, I don't know who's gonna do it, but you don't have to, you leave that money to death, you die in deep old age, the property that's gonna be in II. The pension fund's pillar is also a matter of inheritance. There's a lot of positive stuff. In the management company's business, we said that, projections of pensions as well. Owners are foreign banks, most of the Croatian financial industry are owners of foreigners. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Personally, here I am now speaking on my own behalf, when I see where the trend is going in the financial industry, there will be less and less attractive business in Croatia. Unfortunately, there will be more and more lucrative jobs in Western Europe. It may not be in Vienna anymore, but it will be in Frankfurt, London or Paris, but it's simply a fact. We are happy that at least this industry that is relying on the good part and other industries to survive, to strengthen, that the number of employees has increased greatly, the regulation has been greatly strengthened. Also, a lot of attention must be given to conflicts of interest and investment in the sense of a good professional. So I think the regulator himself is getting tighter and tighter. I think surveillance is quality, it's going to be even more quality. In the same way as making funds, we have earned 25 billion kunas from 2002 until the end of last year. 6 billion kuna was a profit in 2014. It won't be like this every year, 2014 was very good. But we all made 25 billion kunas together. Next, what is our future, what do we want in the future? You said that we invest a lot abroad, we have a lot of bonds. You must know that by law we must have at least 50% of the property in state papers. In addition, in the largest funds, B funds, we can have a maximum of 40% of the assets in currencies other than kuna. So we are somehow forced to invest in Croatia. We do not consider Croatia a wasteland, we do not consider Croatian bonds as garbage. The fact is, the offerings are high. With structural reforms and only small shifts in the budget and budget I think that can change very quickly but we are not poets here. That's what we can get to right away, you say what if the pension fund fails? He can't fail. The Peace Fund can start to fail, if there are extremely bad yields something will happen, it will change the people who run it, it will no longer be the same management society, but will change the management society. It could ruin a pension society. If a pension society fails there is an exact procedure that happens, the pension fund is transferred to the management of another pension society. It's a very clear structure. And as far as our investments are concerned in the future, what we want, what we are calling for is that we are very interested in investing in infrastructure projects, in investing in energy, in investing in the privatisation process in major important Croatian companies. We're not the ones who create projects ourselves, we're the ones who support projects, but we need these projects to be presented, they have to be shown to us in the whole story. I think that's briefly it. I personally think that this reform, pension reform, is one of the best reforms in Croatia. That practically the only reform that was initiated by the Matesha government, a political system, had continued and had been implemented by Mr. Racan, and so far the options have supported it. I hope that in future after all the discussions, the second pension pillar will strengthen, that we will be growing factors in the growth of the Croatian economy and I think we can contribute a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1474	Thank you. Here's the deal with this. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 pm with the 5th Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2014. That would be the end of tonight's session. Thank you. Session adjourned at 17.59 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-28-0.u1475	We will now vote on pension fund work reports. Therefore, the first report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds d.d. (b) Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Erste d.o.o. the management company of compulsory and voluntary pension funds. Under c) Report on the work of the AZ Mandatory Pension Funds for 2014. Under d) Report on the work of pension funds PBZ Croatia insurance. Reporters are pension funds. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of pension funds managed by Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds d.d. is accepted. A report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Erste d.o.o. the management company of compulsory and voluntary pension funds. A report on the work of the AZ Mandatory Pension Funds for 2014 is hereby adopted. Report on the work of PBZ pension funds Croatia insurance for 2014 is hereby accepted. a year." Please vote. The vote is over. Of 119 total votes 103 is for, 16 abstentions. I therefore find that most of the votes were reached in the proposed text. That concludes the vote, and now we will return to our debate on the point we are discussing.
