ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4112	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs. On behalf of the home working body of the Committee on Economy, and on a proposal from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia yesterday, we discussed the proposal for the appointment of Ms. Martina Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to perform his duties and Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Only a change in the name of the ministry and Mr Goran Maric's role as Minister of State Property has taken place. It's the new Croatian government ministry. The board discussed the proposal, and with seven votes in favour and two votes abstentioned, so no one on the board was against, came up with a proposal. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4113	I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Economy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure on these proposals shall not be held at the plenary session. I stress that Article 252. The Rules of Procedure lays down that to show confidence to government members, a half majority of all MPs are required. I am voting on a proposal to show confidence to the science doctor Martini Dalic, vice-president of the government of the Republic of Croatia and to carry out the duties of the Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Please vote. The vote is over. With 80 votes for, 12 abstentions and 19 against, Martini Dalic's trust was expressed. ... Vice-Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the duties of Minister of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts. [[Applause.]] Congratulations. The next item is: - Proposed to show confidence to the science doctor Goran Maric for his duties as Minister of State Property. The motion is proposed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic. In accordance with Article 119 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were held at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. You've received a report from the board on the benches. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure on these proposals shall not be held at the plenary session. I stress that Article 252. The Rules of Procedure lays down that to show confidence to government members, a half majority of all MPs are required. I am voting on a proposal to show confidence to the science doctor Goran Maric for the duties of Minister of State Property. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 83 for, 17 abstentions and 12 against, have shown confidence in Goran Maric for his duties as Minister of State Property. Congratulations. ... I stress that the minister and minister have already sworn in as members of the government, since they have been members of the government so far. [[Applause.]] Dear Minister, dear Minister, I congratulate you on your trust, I want you to carry out an honorable and responsible duty successfully.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4117	President-in-Office, thank you. We're looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club. There was a particular initiative of a united discussion of these tax laws, we propose a break for the club for 20 minutes to try to agree with the other club presidents whether we can tie up some points for discussion and how much to agree on then.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4118	Thank you. Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4119	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I'm just asking you and the entire presidency not to change five minutes ago in the future. This isn't the first time, it's the tenth time, so the whole concept of the session, to get ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4120	Representative Sincic, I must answer that everything is done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and also at the time when the plenary session starts, there is the possibility of adding agenda points and you always have the opportunity to make an observation unless it suits you. Here you go, Mr. Demetlika. No, I don't. Excuse me. It's a 20-minute stop. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.30 HOURS]] Representative Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4122	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I suggest that since we've been to an extended Bureau meeting, that you inform fellow MPs and advocates of the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4123	Thank you. At a meeting of the extended presidency where representatives or presidents of all the clubs of MPs agreed that there would be a united debate on the tax laws package, in a way that the first day of the debate goes by clubs and for each club for 20 minutes, so that today the debate will only take place on the stand of the club representatives. The next day will be an individual debate also in a united way throughout the tax laws package. The third day will be the continuation of the individual debate and the final words of clubs for 10 minutes. So today, it will be 20 minutes of club position, day three final word for 10 minutes and all for a united discussion of the entire package of tax laws. Thank you to all the parliamentary representatives and all the club representatives. Of course, what I have to do right now and report. With this we will exhaust the first part of the constitutive session. We will continue with a new session on Wednesday next where the current morning will be. Now I'd like to get back to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4124	Mr. President, please, I have not heard how long an individual debate will take, given that we are individually discussing a total of 16 laws if I am not mistaken, and if that is 10 minutes, then it is far too little.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4125	What we have proposed lasts an individual debate all day long the following and also a continuation of the individual debate on the third day, so that the duration will be according to the Rules of Procedure unless it is also today at the wider Presidency a different proposal. If a different proposal is to be given, we can consider it, and if necessary, if the General Bureau agrees with the change, we can also correct it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4126	Well, I think it would be more logical for 15 minutes now that the content is so large.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4127	Thank you. Dear MPs and MPs, in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and in mutual agreement with the representatives of the Clubs of Representatives, we will continue to work on a joint discussion of the tax laws package. These are: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax, first reading, P.Z. Number 28, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, first reading, P.Z. Number 18, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions, first reading, P.Z. Number 19, 4. Proposal for a income tax law, first reading, P.Z. Number 23, 5. Proposal for a law on real estate tax, first reading, P.Z. Number 16, 6. Proposal for a law on local taxes, first reading, P.Z. No. 17, 7. Proposed tax administration law, first reading, P.Z. No. 22, 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscalisation in cash, first reading, P.Z. No. 25, 9. Proposal for a General Tax Code, first reading, P.Z. No. Twenty-four, ten. Proposal for a law on administrative cooperation in the field of tax, first reading, P.Z. No. 26, 11. Proposal for a law on administrative fees, first reading, P.Z. No. 29. 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax Advisory, first reading, P.Z. No. 30, 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, first reading, Proposal for a Law No. 27, 14. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, first reading, P.Z. No. 20, 15. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 21. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Minister Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4129	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Here is what we call a package ourselves, or a proposal of 15 legislative proposals concerning the tax system of the Republic of Croatia. I will initially take advantage of the opportunity and say a few things that are partly and many of us and all of us are well-known, but I still feel it is necessary to point out this because both the international community and the local public, both professional and general throughout and over the past years, points to certain illogical, uneconomy and imperfections if you want the Croatian tax system. Key analyses, key suggestions, key remarks concern above all the high tax burden, on the other hand quite complex and ultimately an expensive tax system that makes it impossible or very difficult for the tax administration to work and then even more important entrepreneurs and citizens. At the same time, too many different exemptions were identified, reliefs, all of which certainly had one good intention at the very moment of introduction and adoption but always asked whether the original task that was expected of it was finally established. It has also identified a very high level of tax instability, frequent changes in tax laws and regulations that actually create a sense of instability that prevents existing entrepreneurs and those new ones from taking investment and economic activities. These are ultimately the main reasons why such a large comprehensive reform project of the tax system started. Further segmentation and such approach to the tax system and tax reform would lead to further instability and ultimately imbalance of the tax system as a whole. With this in mind, and for this reason, I personally as Minister of Finance in the previous meeting of the Croatian Assembly and the Government, in accordance with my powers, have made a decision on the establishment of an expert working group that will ultimately work and worked on the analysis of the existing tax system, but also as a fruit and result, and an analysis to produce certain proposals, solutions, suggestions, ultimately all together that we have here today in front of us in the benches, that is, what we will be discussing for the next days and weeks. From the very beginning, the basic objectives of tax reform have been clearly set, which is primarily tax discharge for both entrepreneurs and citizens. It is one of the key elements of raising the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and as one important impulse of economic growth, as well as creating and opening new jobs, building a more socially fair tax system but ultimately and generally social order. A stable, sustainable and simple tax system is also one of the key elements that we have been leading since the very beginning in this big business. We cannot ignore either our tax administration and all those bodies that are closely linked to tax collection and all taxes to the state that in this way are cheaper and simplified procedures that will ultimately mean better service, tax administration and all related establishment units both the Ministry of Finance and other bodies of the state administration that will serve citizens and entrepreneurs and ultimately their own purpose, ultimately providing legal certainty, greater legal and tax security to taxpayers. And let me also say as Minister of Finance but also in general, taking into account fiscal opportunities and in no way questioning the fiscal sustainability of Croatian public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to consider, of course, the restriction of my opening presentation to present these 15 proposals of which are seven new legislative proposals, 8 are amendments and additions. In short lines I try to draw out what may be at this moment and at least, I will not say the most interesting but perhaps the most impressive series of changes but you know well, you have read the proposals, although within a very short time, but you have nevertheless seen there are a whole series of changes and comments which, of course, we will today in the context of discussions by clubs, and later in the context of an individual debate already in this reading process I am sure to identify and constructively discuss. We are starting with a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. The key definitions of course are redesigned and changes that occur mainly in the segment of the reduced value added tax rate of 13% where, according to this proposal, the following products and services go from 25% to 13%, i.e. children's car seats, electricity supply, public utility collection service, delivery of urn and leas, delivery of seedlings and seeds, delivery of fertilisers and pesticides and other agrochemical products and livestock food. At the same time, from 13% to 25%, or we can say that the reduced rate of 13% is no longer applied to services in catering, which includes food preparation services and the provision of food services to catering facilities, as well as the preparation and use of non-alcoholic beverages and beverages, wine and beer in these facilities, and the delivery of white cane sugar and sugar beet that is placed on the market in crystal form. There are several amendments that we propose and which are contained in this legislative proposal and for which, with the full implementation of course, with the vote of you or the Croatian Parliament, we should also get the previous consent for full implementation by the European Commission. That's what they're called. The rock clauses were still in force at the time when Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, when it joined formal membership or joined the EU formally. Therefore, above all, this refers to the deduction of the 50% pre-tax for purchase or rental and related services in passenger cars and other means of transport of which the value does not exceed 400,000 kuna, and the increase of the threshold for entering the VAT system from the existing 230 thousand to 300 thousand. In order for taxpayers entitled to a deduction of pre-taxes to increase liquidity on imports, the accounting category will apply exclusively to certain machines and devices, so we stimulate investment activity in this way. The second proposal is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax. The key change and the strongest message of this amendment law and supplementation is actually the reduction of the overall profit tax rate from 20% to 18%, with us recognising and I think that you will all recognise together that in the overall package of tax reform, there are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, craftsmen, agricultural producers of all those with annual turnovers up to 3 million kunas is particularly recognized and there are in some way a lot of stimulating measures for them and in that segment. In profit tax for them, so I repeat for this segment of the economy and entrepreneurs up to 3 million kunas of their annual profit tax rate would go to 12%. Tax relief for reinvested profits is abolished while relief for research and development and, of course, relief for the first group of assisted areas and the City of Vukovar at a reduced rate of 50%. The possibility of a flat-rate taxation of the economic activity of non-profit organisations is introduced, provided that they are not VAT bonds. There, among other things, is already in the first here in my presentation the first element where you see one link when we talk about comprehensive and comprehensive reform because certain adjustments in individual tax form have their own repercussions and have links to other tax forms. For small taxpayers, therefore, this up to 3 million kuna of annual turnover is again the possibility that, following the determination of accounting profits, they will carry out a correction of cash flows and establish a tax base according to the monetary principle. So that's what we think through these changes and additions gives total flexibility to these very small corporate taxpayers where they are now if we look from the segment of craftsmen at this point according to existing legal regulations they have the possibility of relying between income tax and profit tax. Now, at this point, they have full flexibility, so we're talking about situations and cases where for certain reasons that unfortunately we can't regulate by tax regulations, but let's just say they haven't been able to collect all their claims from the state right now gives them maximum flexibility. For these outstanding claims, they are not determined by accounting gains but are given the opportunity to determine their profits according to cash flow, or according to monetary principles, and ultimately does not create an additional press on what they have as a problem at that time. As a one-off measure in 2017, credit institutions are given the opportunity to establish as a tax recognition the amount of the write-offs, etc. Bad credits in English non-reforming loans shall be conducted and determined in accordance with the decision on the classification of non-balance sheet exposures by the credit institutions of the CNB. This write-off is given only during 2017, it is final and can ultimately be used in the form and in the sense of this law. So the key definition and the key term in that recognition is this term's final write-off. The procedure is simplified and the request is written down if it is small-value debts for all taxpayers because they are not only credit institutions and which have outstanding claims but also the number of Croatian entrepreneurs. In cases where certain payment measures are taken, the inability to collect shall be determined, of course. In particular, these are cases where the costs of running certain collection procedures were either through the exercise, either through bankruptcy and similar in the end, given the level of costs, end up being higher or more expensive than the claims themselves in the final process which are trying to collect. There is an increase in the amount of tax-recognized expenditure from the basis of the team and are being determined in the amount of 50% and one big thing that we personally consider in the Ministry of Finance is that it is also giving a very clear message that the Tax Administration and the Tax Administration and all services of the Ministry of Finance will strive to be among other things on the ground in the form of advisory services. Therefore, the possibility of concluding previous transfer pricing agreements is foreseen. Transfer prices are not only a problem for large Croatian entrepreneurs but also for a number of others who have several of their companies and related persons. And just in that way, more transparentally, we finally give a system of these prices. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, the minimum monthly basis for the calculation of the contribution with a minimum salary is harmonised in such a way that the coefficient for the calculation of the minimum monthly basis for the calculation of the contribution is increased from 0.35 to 0.38. Very important or one of the most important changes in this Law on Contributions is the category of second income. Therefore, the exemption and the possibility of non-payment of contributions to pension and health insurance, i.e. all categories of Croatian citizens who make the second income category according to this proposal, would be required to pay contributions to pension and health. However, we are acting stimulatingly on this category and these contributions are decreasing by 50%. So, pension insurance 10Z% and health 7 and a half. The proposed income tax law as the fourth in a series of proposals and you can see for yourself that they have not changed and complemented the amount of changes. We went with a whole new law. What is a key feature, therefore, is the basic personal deduction of the non-taxable part for all categories of Croatian citizens unrelated to which areas and which status is raised to 3800 kuna. They change, of course, the indirect and personal deduction coefficients for dependent members and mainly for children and through their changes, I think you will recognize yourself that it seems much more stimulating in terms of treating mostly families with children once, and then... Even more with two and three and so on, since they're cumulatively summing up amounts of personal deductions for children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is prescribed to establish income as an annual income and as a final income. Annual income includes income from non-performing work, income from independent activity, etc. Second income. Annual income shall be determined by way of the annual tax application or by a special procedure which the Tax Administration shall carry out under official duty. Annual tax rates are 24% up to an annual tax base of 210 000 kuna, which is at the monthly level of 17 and a half thousand, and 36% on the annual tax base above 210 thousand, or mentioned monthly 17 and a half. On the other hand, we have the category of final income. These are incomes from assets, capital and insurance which, on the basis of such income, cannot benefit from basic personal deductions, deductions for dependent members but are finally taxed at a rate of 12%, of course, increased by tax depending on the area in which that income is realised, or at which the taxpayer is. For pensioners and all taxpayers from assisted areas and areas of the city of Vukovar, income tax would be charged at the same rates and tax bases as I mentioned. However, the obligation would be reduced by 50% for pensioners and for all taxpayers in the assisted areas of the first category and the city of Vukovar. I have to make it very clear here, of course there will be a link in the Law on Finance and above all the Law on Local Taxes. Therefore, since the first day of working on this issue and the whole package of tax laws have not been neglected and the fact that it is the law, i.e. income from income tax is the original income of units of local and regional, or regional self-government. At this point we did not refer before the sixteenth proposal as a law, which is the Law on the financing of the unit of local and regional self-government that we will test in the coming weeks and months, it was created and a single formula was created. But given also one link with regional development and some other ministries, we will also make another additional and calculation and testing on criteria, the development index and ultimately come with such a proposal for application 1.1.2018. In the meantime, as a transitional solution in 2017, we will compensate and compensate for this loss of income from local and regional self-government units through direct transfers from the state budget, which in other words means that it is the state budget that bears all the burden of this tax reform and in this segment. Therefore, the message is also from this pay phone to all the leaders of the units of local and regional self-government that they can start and start, i.e. that some have already embarked on budget planning processes for 2017 based on the level and level of income income from income tax 2016. So there's no loss for them. The proposal for a law on real estate tax, the tax rate is reduced from 5% to 4%, a general rate with the right to withdraw from the payment of real estate tax for citizens who deal with their own housing issue by buying the property. But this time it only applies to those who buy so-called. used real estate. You know well that after our entry into the EU and after a transitional period of 1.1.2015, it is no longer possible to use this relief to buy new property at all. In view of the exchange of data between the Tax Administration and the public notebooks, the obligation to register traffic by taxpayers is lifted, and the tax is determined by official duty. The complaint declared on the tax ruling does not delay the execution of the solution. The belonging of this tax goes entirely to the bodies of local self-government, so the county. So the state gives up these 20% and given the reduction in the general rate from 5 to 4 that would practically mean a neutral effect for their budgets. The sixth law is the proposal for a law on local taxes. It is also a new law that we have fully singled out from the Law on the financing of units of local and regional and regional self-government. Therefore, the desire is to simplify and more transparently define what tax forms these are, which are the revenues of both cities and municipalities, as well as the county. Everything remains, of course, or most of it remains the same, but there are some changes, so let only the most important ones. Tax inheritances and gifts, registrations and rates are in line with the real estate tax, so the general rate from 5 to 4 and all of this that I was talking about is the exchange of data between the IRS and the public notebooks. Tax on road motor vehicles, from now on will be paid on registration of the vehicle. On the one hand, this ensures maximum charge in terms of this tax form, and ultimately simplifies the process not only for the tax administration of the county, but also for taxpayers. And today, we have the element of the administrative procedure in the registration of the vehicle, for example, the issue of the famous and famous green paper related to environmental protection. The tax on a company or name is abolished, and so on is introduced. one-sided real estate tax with effect 1.1.2018. Real estate tax is a substitut of the municipal fee existing, but with one specific correction, that, with the existing three criteria, these are squares, they are zoning if in the city or municipality there is this element and purpose, whether it is a residential or business purpose, there are two additional criteria, and these are age criteria and criteria of the state of the property itself. And by saying right away, if it weren't for our intensity in any way to spend additional resources and resources on just these two criteria, then that would ultimately mean a certain contradiction because we want to simplify the processes. What is also important to mention is the tax on holiday homes and monumental rent, the transformation of these taxes into this one-sided real estate tax. And a very important thing for units of local, regional (regional) self-government, so cities and municipalities, so the purpose of this tax is to be removed. The communal fee is to this day according to the existing laws dedicated revenue, it will no longer be as such. The proposal for a tax administration law aims to create the basis for the functioning of the Tax Administration as a single and independent administrative organisation within the Ministry of Finance, which in an economic and efficient way performs the tasks of its part-round. In the part of the implementation of supervisory activities, the need for the creation of a single establishment unit responsible for the control of tax fraud and the separation of those functions from the classical tax control procedures has been demonstrated. I think you will recognize both with this activity and with some others the idea that, in terms of the tax administration organisational scheme, and also with its horizontal, and also with a vertical connection that one additional stimulant in a more economical or ultimately more efficient and functional work of tax administration. The automation of procedures, the change of business with regard to citizens and the establishment of electrical communication with taxpayers will disbursement the business processes of the Tax Administration, and human resources will be redistributed to other major tax administrations, and in that part not only as a prerequisite for this tax reform, but I will stress as a prerequisite for any tax reform, and ultimately, if no tax changes are made, it is certain that the measurement of the taxpayer's tax force is certain. Therefore, effective and effective collection of tax revenues and all government fees to ultimately not only meet public finances' obligations and needs but ultimately have social and in-house justice and protect them naturally, orderly pay taxes. The eighth law is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on fiscalisation in cash. A fiscalisation obligation shall be introduced for taxpayers carrying out the activity from the sale of tickets or chips in passenger transport. However, there is a certain exception, such as the sale of tickets or chips in line local transport, and the sale of tickets or chips in air, rail and line coastal transport. This is one requirement that has come from the Association of Transporters to be taken into account that they need some time to adapt. Since 1.7.2017, it is one of the few and perhaps the only change to be made within the year, the possibility for the pausalists to issue accounts from the book of certified accounts is lifted, and for them the obligation of fiscalisation through the devices is introduced. In other words, we release and take into account the requirement and recommendation of this very category of taxpayers, but of course if they do not have to keep books then they must go into the fiscalisation system as such. The ninth is the proposal for a general tax law. It's also a new law. Instead of relative and absolute obsolescence, a single six-year-old deadline is prescribed. The act of aging bodies is required to keep an eye on their official duties. The tax administration shall carry out an annual system or system write-off of the debt for which, as of 1 January of the current year, an old payment entitlement has entered into force. Surveillance procedures will be conducted within three years. I will very clearly and responsibly say here that within the expert working group we have led on this particular topic a number of discussions and certainly there have been suggestions that even in this field a little more, I will not say more restrictively and constructively, but ultimately to make certain changes. We believe that this will help address the problem of further individence and the non-functional financial system in Croatia. Provisions on the delivery by electronic means shall be developed which has already been prescribed as mandatory for entrepreneurs. The 10th law is a proposal for a law on administrative cooperation in the field of tax. Here is a very short observation, therefore simply given our many obligations to comply with EU legislation and legislation and other international organisations, we separate this law from the general tax law and thus, in this particular law, we are ultimately doing these changes and alignments. So we're not going to be any more witnesses to numerous and frequent changes to the flat tax law, and that's ultimately the General Tax Law. Proposal for a law on administrative fees as the eleventh. Therefore, the existing law is not in line with the EU Internal Market Services Directive in part of the possibility of carrying out all procedures and thus paying administrative fees in all amounts electronically and remotely. The payment of administrative fees shall be subject to the prescribed invoice regardless of the amount of the administrative fee and, exceptionally, up to 100 kuna may be paid to state records. Since certain institutions have provided for payment of new administrative fees or new exemptions from the payment of administrative fees, changes to the applicable law are necessary since the applicable law has been in force since 1996, and given the number of amendments to the law are submitted as new. One of the most important changes, the tariff that has been passed so far as part of the law is now being changed in the government's regulation, and the fees from the jurisdiction of certain ministries will be edited and amended by regulations as a more flexible way. The 12th law is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Advisory Act. This is another one in a series of laws or elements concerning compliance with EU directives. The need to change therefore stemmed from a discrepancy with the 2006 directive on services on the internal market. Key changes are, the applicable law restricts tax advisers to exclusively natural persons or persons in public companies for this activity and amends the restriction of any legal form to provide these services. This law abolishes the restriction under which EU citizens can establish only a branch for tax advisory and not another form of headquarters. It will allow the introduction of electronic procedures for the submission of applications, the granting of approval, or solutions for the implementation of the activities of the Tax Advisory in the Republic of Croatia. Three laws are also part of the customs administration, the Ministry of Finance's customs service. These are the 13th Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Tax Act. I think you will recognize that in both this and the other laws of the customs department we also went not only to the partial tax charge and the corrections in terms of greater tax fairness but also mainly in terms of administrative discharge. A small distillery institute is introduced to which a reduced excise duty rate of 50% of the standard rate is applied, is a condition of annual production of 2.5 thousand liters of brandy. This is certainly a positive impact on the OPGs, on competitiveness and their sustainability, on farmers, cooperatives and generally of course employment in that segment. As regards administrative simplification, the obligation to submit an annual excise duty calculation form for small producers of strong alcoholic beverages shall be abolished. They total 41 thousand in Croatia. It facilitates the dispatch of wine to other EU Member States in the system of suspension of the payment of excise duties for small winemakers and, instead of small winemakers, administrative formalities will be carried out by the customs administration on their behalf. New tobacco products are introduced, i.e. excise duties on products such as e-fluids and new tobacco products such as heated tobacco products. The 14th Act amending and supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, modernising the motor vehicle taxation system in line with trends in the EU in order to make the system more efficient, predictable and simpler. The model exists in terms of a mixed taxation system according to which the specific tax is determined on the basis of a value and ecological criterion, noting that in these changes and additions, we are exclusively guided by the ecological criterion, i.e. carbon dioxide emissions, i.e. CO2. Through this law we tried also to be stimulating in terms of not only demographic renewal but to recognize the category of our fellow citizens, or families with more children. So we introduce a 50% reduction, or a 75% reduction in excise rates, a special tax on motor vehicles for those vehicles with 8 and 9 seats, certainly for, so we're talking about bigger families. As far as the last law is concerned, it is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act, it is on the trail of amendments concerning the tax administration itself, which is certainly a simplification of the process, a better vertical and horizontal link and ultimately a greater functionality and systematicity in the functioning of the customs service. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me here in the remaining minutes and a half to try to sum up all these 15 laws through their effects fiscally and macroeconomicly. So from the perspective of 2017 and from a static perspective, so what is this loss for the state budget, we're talking about when we sum up all of this together about the net effect of 2 billion kuna. The effect for Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs in terms of their discharge is also slightly higher than 2.5 billion because one part of the burden is naturally transferred to non-residents or foreigners in Croatia. However, what is also important to mention, from a static perspective, these figures are as the net effect of these 15 legal changes. We have done analyses taking into account, inter alia, the experience of other countries of relevant international institutions such as OECD, the World Economic Forum, the European Commission, the IMF and others, as well as the experience of some other countries that have made it very clear that the reduction and reduction of the tax burden by 1% in terms of GDP is increasing the rate of potential economic growth between 0.25 and 1% in the long term. In particular, the effect is stronger and more significant when we talk about tax discharges, mainly so-called. direct taxes, therefore, on income tax and profit, which we end up with these 15 legislative proposals and are aiming at the most. In Croatia, therefore, in 2017 we can talk about reducing the tax burden and tax revenue, the share of tax revenues in GDP by 0.6 which in other words, according to our multiplier analyses, both the first and the one induced, says that we are raising this proposal by changing and supplementing the long-term potential growth rate of the Croatian economy between 0.3 and 0.5. So I'm not just talking about the effect of 2017, I'm talking about every year. Croatia is currently at growth level, real growth between 2.5% and 3%, which is safe after 6 years of recession and falling economic activities more than welcome but I think we will all agree that this is not enough, for Croatia, for all of us together, for our citizens. We need growth rates of at least 3% and above, we need a much stronger potential growth rate that will generate new jobs and ultimately ensure sustainability not only for the macroeconomic but also for the stability of public finances. And the last word, I apologized, just one last word, so for 2017, the effects of these measures were estimated against nominal GDP between billions and 2.5 billion kuna. Compared to employment between 6.5 and 11.5 thousand new jobs and return effect on the budget between 400 and 800 million kuna. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4130	Thank you very much. Here's the minister you'll have a chance to explain a lot more because 15 replicas have been reported for your presentation. So let's take the turn. The first one is the distinguished representative of Ivan Willibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4131	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Maric, you spoke of encouraging demographic measures, so we have here, specifically in the first law, the Law on Value Added Tax, Article 38. So at the rate of 13%, VAT is charged on car seats. And imagine now, you have a seat that costs 4000 kuna, with the current VAT 25%, that's 5,000 kuna paid by the end-user, the parent, and now we cut it to 13%, that's going to be 4520 kuna. And now who can control or who can guarantee where these 480 kuna will end? The seller can leave the price of 5 thousand kuna and take this difference. So, if it's not better to go towards a tax return, you bring a bill that says you paid 5 grand, and we pay you back 480, you really feel that. Or at some coupons that exist in the countries of Europe. Because this is how this is formulated as a demographic measure for you, Mr. Minister, is on a large questionnaire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4132	Thank you. They'll answer with respect, will you respond immediately or all together? All the replicas together, all right. The following is the replica of the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, you have pointed out on several occasions that this is a full tax reform, unfortunately that is not the case. It seems more to me that it is one package of tax laws that only partially touches a whole Croatian society, and above all it is intended to help those who need it least are rich and capital in Croatian society. What makes me sad is that in your campaign, the main motive was credibility. Somehow credibility would also draw on the fact that this government should respect all the strategies adopted by the Croatian Parliament and brought by the Croatian government and you completely ignore the industrial strategy, the smart specialisation strategy without talking about denying the tourism strategy, which is totally unforgivable. So, the impact on tourism, on the caterers, is something that in no way suggests that this tax reform will produce something good. I can't believe your promises that aren't backed by hard evidence when you give up your pre-election promises every day. You pointed out the demographics, and second time you're giving up 1,000 euros for newborns. So how do you believe the promises you made here today that you'll make up for all the local self-government you're taking 2 billion? How do you believe that you will help the pensioners, young people when, for example, The pensioners have nothing to do with this reform, when you take away young people's relief from first real estate, which is certainly absolutely the opposite of your incentives for demographics. How do you explain that you eliminate tax reliefs on reinvested profits when it has proved to be crucial? And how to explain the abolition of the tax system rather than the return of services to HDZ donors.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4134	Replication response. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4135	Thank you very much. I'm going to do this replica, I was going to combine all the replicas, but I think I'd better answer it right now. So, the overall scope of tax reform, so each of us has its own judgment in the end, what they're going to say, is how they're going to observe. This is the biggest boredom since the introduction of the tax system into the Republic of Croatia, or a proposal for changes practically from the mid-90s. Fifteen legal regulations that you see, as you can see from my opening statements, I am sure that through the debate, it will be even more evident and clearer that it means this very comprehensiveness because many tax forms and tax laws touch each other. As regards the argument that you pointed out that someone particularly in this tax reform is recognised, that is to say, the idea was within the scope of tax, the possibility of tax redistribution in line with fiscal possibilities to distribute that discharge to as many Croatian citizens as possible. I have to point out and repeat here, so of 2 million 750 thousand Croatian citizens, 915 of them are currently not at all in income tax scissors. So these people, these citizens of ours with relatively lower and absolutely lower incomes and pensions, were not able to help differently but by cutting into, among other things, the value added tax system where we are going with a 25 to 13 reduction mainly for electricity and for the delivery of waste disposal, or for the disposal of waste, given that these are the categories of expenditure which are precisely those of our fellow citizens in their total monthly and annual expenditures represent where and where the larger item is. As for the last argument that you said, the Tax Bundesk, or an independent tax fraud agency, I think we'll talk a lot about it in the debate, but I still make it very clear that at this point there was never any intention of abolishing it, although in the hierarchical structure both the Ministry of Finance and the comparison with other state administration bodies it grows and, if necessary, it will not only be organised but also staffed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4136	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4137	Thank you, Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, distinguished guests, this tax reform in full that we will be discussing for the next few days can actually be called united by a great deception because it does not actually carry out those tasks which the applicant here had the opportunity to praise. In fact, he argued that this reform goes in favour of entrepreneurs and citizens, however, it primarily goes in favour of banks, slightly less in favour of entrepreneurs and almost nothing in favour of citizens as much as possible to the benefit of citizens. In this regard, it is sufficient to take a look at Article 12 of the profit tax, which shows that banks are allowed to write off their debts for 2015, which means that banks will be compensated for the losses generated by the conversion into Swiss francs and on the burden of taxpayers. In fact, banks claim completely falsely that they have suffered losses in the conversion and they have not, they have worked out, and now that cost wants to be transferred to the back of citizens, which is why it is already seen in the beginning that this is not about any reform, Mr Maric, but rather about a political agreement. You and the banks agreed to compensate them for the losses on my work and the work of all other honest citizens in this Republic. And therefore do not say that this tax reform is benefiting citizens. She's not going to their advantage. If it were to benefit you would not have introduced this legal article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4138	Thank you. Dear Minister Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4139	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, so Article 12, which you quote on profit tax, follows between the other and the recommendations that have been made by the European Commission, which both in the context of the debate and the preceding and the past Governments have, in fact, led to an integral part of our national reform programme that we have sent to Brussels and which has been recognised as constructive in many ways. Because unlike what you're saying, it helps credit institutions, it actually helps their debtors even more. Therefore, the measure proposed today, i.e. as proposed, i.e. credit institutions, i.e. banks, have claims on citizens and particularly on entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs have a relatively higher share of these so-called. non-payment of debts or non-payment of claims, poor loans from citizens. However, it means to banks the possibility of recognising tax-recognized expenditures, so the neutral effect in the case of write-offs, but it also requires them and means that it is a final write-off. In other words, credit institutions, i.e. banks from their balance sheets, permanently delete claims from their accounts and losses, but also Croatian citizens, Croatian entrepreneurs permanently delete their debts to credit institutions. They become free of these debts, they can start new business activities which, unlike today's opportunities under the existing legislative proposal if one of the debtors who has been blocked and who has taken certain business activities with the bank, made revenue, that revenue would already be made, or the bank would have made it. So this is how we talk about a one-time scale, but we are talking about the key words of the final writing both from the perspective of the financial reports of banks and also from the perspective of citizens and entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4140	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4141	Here, Mr. Minister, you suggest raising VAT rates in catering, which is definitely what we put Croatian tourism in an unequal position compared to competitive countries. I will be free to say that tourism is unfortunately for some only experience, for some way of living, and for the vast majority of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. By raising the VAT rate in the catering sector, it was not apparent that all those in the tourism sector had invested significant funds in raising standards and quality and services during the previous years when the VAT rate was reduced. We are definitely giving up the Tourism Development Strategy by this proposed measure and will slow down further investment and investment and directly affect the lack of development of continental tourism. What concerns me is the fundamental question do we actually understand what makes added value in tourism? They make people. By raising the VAT rate in catering, we did not take into account the negative impact on employment and this on all those young people who have a healthy attitude, who want to work and who have earned their work in a few months’ wages for the whole year. For example, like young people from Slavonia, but also other parts of the Republic of Croatia. We are full of mouths that we must do everything possible to keep our young ones from leaving the country, and we are doing the opposite to this measure, driving young people out of our own country. By raising the VAT rate in catering, we also did not take into account that once again, unfortunately the grey economy will grow again. Dear Mr. Minister, I offer a solution and a win-win solution to keep the rate at the same level, and that a solution that is required by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to pass a law on so-called. tourism land that unblocks unnecessary court disputes, defines land status, triggers investments, opens new jobs, generates new sources of revenue for the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4142	Thank you. Please, the Honorable Minister Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4143	Thank you very much. So, as for the reduced rate, i.e. the return of reduced rates for catering services to 25%, but again, I note, so that we don't have one false perception at first. So, in any case, neither these tax changes nor any of us members of the government as a whole deny the role, however, and the importance of tourism. This is why it is left among other things as a reduced rate for hotel accommodation, organised accommodation services. However, in catering and this element of price competitiveness that you point out, I am not sure that a Croatian citizen, of course, who has the opportunity to travel around Europe and around the world as well as strangers when coming to Croatia, is exclusively looking at what the VAT rate is for catering services. They look at the total price, whether that destination is the destination they want to go to and whether it is ultimately safe. That's the element. Croatia according to EUROSTAT data is currently the cheapest in the hotel and restaurant segment of the Mediterranean destination. So many talk about reduced rates in France, Italy. Croatia and Portugal are at 73.3 and 75.1 indices compared to the EU average of 100 while Italy, France, are at the 106 index. In other words, 30% more expensive than Croatia, as well as Greece and Turkey, which are about 5 to 10% more expensive. The price competitiveness is not a crucial factor, i.e. the price competitiveness of VAT is not that only and crucial factor. With these changes and additions, I am sure that the catering sector will also recognise two key specifics, which is reducing the costs for those not in the VAT system, the entry costs were the supply of electricity and the related instructions for those who are in the VAT system, this certainly means improved liquidity. More importantly, however, for the catering sector, it is precisely the demand party. By raising the income available, by raising the economic activity of the entire Croatian economy, one part of that available income and the total generated value will certainly end and return to the catering sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4144	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4145	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Maric. You may not listen to me, but at least it'll be easier for me to understand what I'm saying. So if you go through Slavonia then in smaller places you'll see people standing or sitting in front of the store, they're not waiting there for action prices but drinking beer and hanging out. It's just fate and it's such a picture in Slavonia. Every caterer in Slavonia is struggling to collect thousands of kunas daily so that he can exist at all. If we see the difference in VAT at a thousand kunas about right now, we say instead of 130 you're going to pay 250 kuna now that's one waiter's daily. In Slavonia, many young people are condemned to be waiters either in hospitality or in bauste, so as counterpart Sponza said earlier in the replica, if the hospitality on the Adriatic if they can't work there too they'll have to go outside. But let me turn the story around like this. Are you thinking about still having Slavonia if not in terms of VAT when I'm talking about hospitality, you're taking even more concrete measures to help these people and that they might survive there? And the other thing, when we talk about real estate tax, I agree with you, you said it would count on the same principle as the communal fee, that it would take the state and age of real estate. Okay, well, we can say this crazy thing right now, it's going to take an age and someone who lives in a castle, his real estate, and it's going to reduce the coefficient that's not exactly commendable, but what bothers me is, why is it that the local self-government units are excluded? Enter a coefficient which the unit of local self-government will be able to re-influence with the final price of real estate tax because it is only fair. We know that laws are passed for the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, but if Slavonia had its own assembly, if it were a region of some of these laws, they would never have passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4146	Thank you. The respected Minister Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4147	... Your question as to how you started and I must say locally a little bit, but of course without any regional differences, by the way. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] We had a constructive discussion a few days ago within the Assembly Committee on Tourism, led by the distinguished Greek representative, and I think we had a very good debate. And one of the participants and speakers said one thing well, so I repeat again without any regional differences, but among other things for the catering sector in Slavonia and throughout continental Croatia, among other things, it would be good to do one thing in some way, not to say agreement, national consensus or whatever we call it, so for the summer months if we go towards the sea, all those who thank God can afford it, so let's, of course, invite our fellow citizens from the coast and others, of course, to come to see Baranja, to see the Kutjeva vineyards, to see Zagorje castles, to see Plitvice Lakes etc. For Slavonia in terms of the region of category, in terms of citizens of fellow citizens and all of that, I think that you yourself have recognized that the Government programme is also absolutely recognized in the project Slavonia 2020, which means the orientation and great focus of individual bodies of the state administration, above all, the inability of European funds, but in some other elements. In this tax reform I think that precisely segments of Slavonia's economy are recognised by agricultural producers and I will point out that for the first time they are practically imputes of agricultural production going to a reduced VAT rate that will certainly facilitate mainly those who are not in the VAT system so those small agricultural producers are reducing costs. So that I don't lose time on your replica, as far as real estate taxes are concerned, I accept your arguments but they've just been taken into account. So the Association of Cities and the Association of municipalities participated among other things in this part of the simulations. So when we talk about the age criterion, it's not just about when it was built or when it was last adapted. So it could be some kind of apartment or house built in '56. or '67. the year, but if it is adapted in 2016, that criterion will be taken. So the simulation and all that was done on this unique property tax was done among other good parts of course and in agreement, that is, we took arguments and associations of cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4148	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4149	Thank you very much. Minister, as far as local self-government is concerned, you said the Law on Local Self-Government, i.e. these measures and effects to be for Vukovar and the first group for residents and for units of local self-government, but we must be aware that the Regional Development Act you are aware of, and we have recently discussed where groups from underdeveloped areas have no incentive, which have lost the funding that has been wrongly taken from them because of the still unclear criteria of 2014, 35 municipalities and cities have lost no means. The fact that compensation measures have not been taken in this year and that these areas are underdeveloped. I am interested in the effects on these local self-governments that also die out as Slavonia, which also remain empty areas, which do not have free textbooks, which do not have organised transports, which do not have jobs, which are in the back of the coast. It is Lika, Gorski Kotar, it is Zagorje, it is the Dalmatian Zagora and I am interested in the effects of these environments, local self-governments, and in particular whether there will be any compensation measures in this year because simply in Gorski kotar and those areas of local self-government there are not enough resources to clean snow. And briefly, it's not just agriculture is not just tourism, tourism, it's not good for people to leave Slavonia during the tourist season as young in the coast. We should be doing cattle. What are the effects of your reform on the final product of agricultural goods in the Republic of Croatia? Is tourism not going to be good if we don't bring the blue Adriatic and the green Slavonia together? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4150	Thank you. The respected Minister Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4151	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So, also the relevant and important subject that I have mentioned from the very first moment, since the first segment of the work on this tax reform, we have been taking place among other principles, namely sustainability not only of state finances but also of local self-government, I must finally say so from the perspective of the Minister of Finance, or the functions of the Minister of Finance. The figure we talk about when we talk about the deficit of the state budget or the general government budget or public debt among other things means local budgets. Therefore, it would be counterproductive and ultimately irresponsible to ignore these budgets in such a single large scale process. So as far as the solutions you're asking about, or you're making a comment, we're sure we'll find a solution and we've found a solution, I repeat again that's the so-called solution. The 16th law that will very soon also be, that is, in the coming year, in the constituencies which, I would say, will make the system much simpler, much more transparent and much more efficient in the future. Unfortunately, we cannot correct all injustices and the past as such as to change, exactly what you are talking about, so surely that units of local and regional self-government mainly from these mountainous and mountainous areas, 35 of them that have come out of that categorization and suffered a loss of 102 million kuna, which for them individually is a total loss. However, from today on the future, we will ensure that these legal proposals ensure that income tax is the full income of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The initial assumption is the ratio of 80% of cities and municipalities, 20% of the county, while for all those units that are below certain criteria on which we will work and under the Regional Development Act and this development index, or other criteria, will be compensated directly from the level of the state budget from so on. the balancing fund. So this is what we will ensure the fiscal sustainability of local and regional self-government units but I will warn and, of course, say to all of us that, with fiscal decentralisation, parallel management and functional decentralisation are essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4152	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4153	Here are the respected ministers, and in this past replica, I am interested, that you said that the local and regional self-government unit is planning a budget at the income level of their 2016 income, what about these units of local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities that had a 50% drop in 2016? So this is about municipalities and cities that were formerly in the mountain-mounted system and lost that system. So in Krapina-Zagorje County and in general there are several municipalities and cities in Varazdin County. The most drastic example is that the town of Lepoglava lost its income from 56% of the original budget, the municipalities... It's 47% of the original budget, it's not small figures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How do they plan their budgets, at the level of this small budget from 2016 or at the previous level? And another question, you said that you would compensate and compensate for direct transfers, means units of local self-government, in which way you think you would agree on criteria, in which way it would work, and how transparent it would be that it would not happen again that certain municipalities and cities that have similar management would receive compensation and municipalities and cities that may not even be their mayors and mayors would not receive compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4154	Thank you. The Honorable Finance Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4155	Dear MPs, your last argument is one of the key reasons why we are going to these changes to the Law on Finance, precisely this intransparency and ultimately the injustice that leads to, if you look at today's system of both income tax laws and the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Hypothetically speaking, if you take under quotes 100 and you want to return 100 from today's existing system, it's almost impossible, a lot of too many differences in categorization between individual units, a lot of complexity in the income tax system itself that makes it impossible for you to precisely achieve this effect that you're talking about. Well, among other things, what the distinguished representative of Bulj and you have self-absorbed is precisely the result of such an existing legislative system of injustices suffered by these 35 units in the mountainous and mountainous areas because of those 120 million kunas being taken under quotes. So they ran out of that part but the 102 million did not ultimately end up in the state budget but was allocated to other units of local and regional self-government, which, of course, got something quieted down and calmed down a little, unlike those that when they lost their voice. That is why we are going to change this legal framework, and that is why we constantly apostrophe that there is a need to advocate simpler, fairer and more transparent solutions because it will ultimately not result and lead to the situations that we are talking about. We may only, when you have already mentioned the Krapina-Zagorska and the distinguished representative mentioned between the rest and Slavonia and the agricultural area and this concept that we are talking about connecting blue and green Croatia. It's not the first concept that, or we won't be the first government to propagate it like that and suggest it, but I am deeply convinced and believe that we will be the first government to succeed at the end and implement it. Because it is undeniable that the potential of the Croatian continent and parts of the coast which deal with agriculture must certainly have its own ticket to our tourism sector. Likewise, when we talk about the sector, i.e. the detour of investment in tourism, there must be something that the construction industry should say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4156	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Martha Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4157	Thank you, dear Vice President. The finance minister cites this reform as a reform that is economically stimulating, which will boost a strong economic development. However, I can't help but think that this is more about amending or adopting a set of laws that have been passed exclusively by the Ministry of Finance. So this reform I see as something that the finance minister self-initiatedly put together and presented to the newly formed government and these new ministers, wanted them not to want them to have been forced to accept it as such. And only because of the pressure of the public did certain items change then, but global reform goes the way it's meant in the Ministry of Finance. So it remains unclear to me that this reform will have an effect on industrial production and knew that one strong economic development of the state depends on industrial production, and on the other, the reform is devastating for tourism. Therefore, there was obviously no co-ordination in the government between the tourism ministry, the economy ministry and other ministries. That's number one. Number two, the social component of this reform is very questionable because we do not see how this social reform is referred to or helped citizens with smaller incomes. Here I personally come from Slavonia, from Brod-Podravna County, so now I don't understand how the minister and how he thinks he's socially protected those citizens with small incomes when on the one hand this reform doesn't even touch 900 thousand residents, it's those who have incomes below 5,000 kuna. On the other hand, he left them a general VAT rate unchanged. So the cost of living remained the same and then goes further to eliminate even the release for the first real estate they used means these young families and families with lower incomes. So I still think that this reform will encourage the development of those more developed and rich areas and those poor ends of them will not be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4158	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Finance will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4159	Thank you very much, of course, for the comment, or the replica. Of course, I didn't force anyone, I didn't exactly make those constitutions, I didn't force anyone to accept or accept anything. The government as a collective body was ultimately discussing this package of laws and we brought it, adopted it, and put it in front of you on the bench. As far as macroeconomic and social effects are concerned, I think I counted them initially, but allow this brief response to the replica to renumber it is therefore indisputable and identifying the situation in which we are therefore high tax discharge again, taking into account some of the experiences of other countries and our own experiences. Among other things, I will say that during your term of office you yourself have seen the effects of a certain tax discharge. I'm sure they're positive for economic currents. And that's actually the key to this whole reform. At the same time, I would never ignore the social effects of this reform. You note that these 915 thousand, that under the Income Tax Act, since they are neither in income tax scissors. And in the end, the Income Tax Act is neither that legal act that defines who has the pay, it defines from your gross salary how much the state taxes or local self-government cuts. And resultingly, we have a calculation of the net wage of course. But certainly these legislative changes, too, I am very confident that both employers, of course and trade unions, will recognise that a good starting point for constructive dialogue is, above all, within the framework of the Economic Social Council and on the subject of minimum wage or minimum income, which will ultimately mean improving the social standard of those with lowest income. On the other hand, of course, there's this element in which you mention the elimination of this relief. I repeat that since 1.1.2015, this relief has been able to be used only to obtain new properties. However, one slight correction or compensation has been made for this way, and yet another much stronger compensation will come, and this is something that my colleague Kuščević, the minister of construction, will propose to the government as part of his portfolio, and will refer to subsidising interest works precisely for the purchase of or purchase of the first real estate. So surely, young families who think and count naturally for the foundation of their own, and we will not ignore our first housing issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4160	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It is important to give recognition to the Minister and his team because this is certainly the most complete reform of the tax system since the Croatian state, if we exclude the introduction of VAT into the tax system in the 1990s. I think this is one and a strong or good message to all those who intend to invest in the Republic of Croatia that the tax system, which is very important for them, will be stable and will not change in the next 4 years, and not that we have a situation like in the past 4 years of the SDP government when we have 48 changes in the tax system, that means once a month the tax system has changed and it has been a message to investors don't invest here and investors because you don't know what tax awaits you in January and what in February. The overall reform as announced originally had a net effect somewhere around 2 billion kuna. There have been certain changes where and to praise, we have protected the poorest. And I wonder what the net effect of tax reform is now given certain changes? With this tax reform in the beginning, the lady loses about 6.5 million kuna. The effects are about 1.5 million. So in the beginning, there's going to be about a minus of about 4.5 million kuna, but it's a good thing you said from this pay phone that it's going to be a transfer from the state budget. Cities and municipalities still have mechanisms through the taxes to compensate for certain shortcomings or deficits but as with counties, they also lose something to this reform and have a less possibility of increasing their own income. And finally, which made you, which you were leading when you were reducing 50% of the contributions to so-called. Another job? The pension system will lose 13 million kunas, the health system 25 million kunas, the pension system lacks 17 billion, the health system 2 billion at annual level, and each kuna in the pension and health system is a golden kuna. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4162	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Finance will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4163	Thank you very much. So, the full reform as you have recognized these corrections that have occurred in relation to the original proposal for all 15 legal regulations actually means only a correction in the value added tax system. So I'd say in the overall proposal it's about 5 to 10%, so there was no major deviation. And all these changes that occurred and adjustments before the final sending or sending of these proposals to the Croatian Parliament had an effect in 2018. So this net effect of 2 billion kuna, i.e. 2 and a half if you exempt foreigners in Croatia, remains for 2017. However, now in 2018, the overall effect is on the discharge of citizens and entrepreneurs lower, i.e. as far as the state budget is concerned, less to say painful. The total effect of 2018 ranges from, say, 500 to 800 million kuna. Now, what you said last of all, I'll try to explain in a minute the second income category. So at this point in Croatia there are 4 different categories of our citizens who make so-called Second income. The second income is otherwise after income from non-permanent work the highest tax on income. The first category that on the second incomes full of pension health, full tax and tax. Others are pensioners who do not pay either pension or health, pay taxes and taxes in full form. Copyright fees neither pay nor pension or health care, have a 30% reduction in tax and cut, and artists and similar activities that are neither retirement nor health care and have a 55% reduction in taxes and taxes. We are now in segments of both tax and social and overall economic justice for all introducing the obligation to pay pension and health. But we want to make it out so that those first categories that so far have paid and paid still full amounts are all settled to this 50% pension, or health insurance. We're looking from that perspective, but these are people who have invested naturally in their knowledge, all the expensive categories, and through the second income category, they're making certain receipts, to stimulate their activity further. But at the same time, of course, I repeat once again, because the first category I spoke about on 100 kuna net income has so far paid 99.65 donations. So almost twice as much. While that last category paid 14 and a half kuna for 100 kuna net income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4164	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4165	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have been talking more or less in public for a month now about tax reform and what we see is that the professional public has given a positive assessment of this overall reform, the social partners also. And now we're in the field of politics. This is what they are leaving for the Croatian Parliament today, but we have seen it in the past 20 days. We heard from one opposition party a clear message will bring down the tax reform of the Croatian Democratic Community. And the goal of the team in public and in the media was to get some information, misinformation to scare someone, to have some kind of false predictions, etc. So I ask you now to make it clear to us here whether this tax reform will be used to collect bread, milk and medicines in Croatia? The second question is how many banks have so far written off bad loans that you today spoke about on the basis of SDP changes and the addition of the Profit Tax Act. The law was amended by the minister I think Linic and his deputy then, Mr Lalovac. So it's been two years. How many of those bad loans have been written off over the past two years. And what is quite important is how much the impact on competitiveness has achieved has been reduced amongst the rates on catering activities, since we have heard information that prices in this sector have remained either the same or increased over the past two years. Let us clear up and tell us clear messages so that Croatian citizens who approach us today say why you collect milk, medicines, bread are clean and that we all know what is going on and that we are done with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4166	The respected Finance Minister Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4167	Thank you very much. Dear representative, therefore, a brief answer to the question of whether to collect bread and milk. The answer is very clear no. If there had been some other adjustments that we proposed, I would have continued mainly for the bread segment also answered no. Because again I repeat the comprehensiveness, integrity, reform again I repeat, and for these producers we have on the side of the input a significant cost reduction and a general reduction of total costs and a reduction of reasons for any purchases. So again, I repeat the overall effect of tax reform already in 2017 of 2 billion kunas that we sought as fair as possible and as balanced as possible among Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs. As for the questions you said regarding the write-off of the bank's claim, i.e. the debt of the entrepreneurs. Here I think that even from what you've stated, it's actually being recognized and I'm sure that a constructive debate that's going to be held in that part will be recognized. These were efforts and intentions, both between the two and the previous governments, mainly in the lending segment in the Swiss francs. We've recorded, so at this point in time with a 30.6. total amount of bad loans you're moving at about 40 billion kuna, which is about 265 billion kuna of total loans somewhere around 16%. A mild, mild reduction is visible in both the percentage and the nominal amount. Therefore, as a consequence of that Consumer Credit Act where this Institute is also recognised to enable banks, i.e. credit institutions to write off claims against debtors in that case only and exclusively Swiss francs, in the Swiss franc. And here we now propose actually the possibility of a final write-off not only for loans in Swiss francs, but also in euro and kuna and other loans. But I repeat again, and I will keep insisting that the write-off of the bank's claims should also be observed and the write-off of the debt of our citizens and entrepreneurs. And very short, since my time is running out. As for hospitality, I said once again without the intention of criticizing and saying that there were bad intentions to lower the rate of hospitality. I think it's the same example in which we haven't seen the full effect of that reduction. This is one of the references to the first replica of the esteemed representative Sinčić, where you can ultimately not guarantee 100% that there will be a price. But when you have a whole package like this, then you still have much stronger arguments and tools in your hands to make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4168	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4169	Thank you, Mr. President. So, esteemed ministers. I hope you're aware that although you probably didn't have all the indications that you've made these legal proposals all the units of local self-government that you haven't seen them at all in their duties and duties to their citizens. What you left to the citizens to spend, you either took part in the revenues of the state budget or from the local budget. We haven't heard here how much tax exemptions on income is a loss for the state budget and how much for the local. But when you take the salaries they pay, which are covered by this law, then you will see that the state almost loses nothing because it is in large part for all public officials and government officials to pay exactly those taxes. I would be interested in this information, although I welcome the attempt to make any more favourable legislative proposals. There's a situation where cities can make up for it, not as you say you're going to donate, but by raising a cut, but also cities can go into one, let's call it cut. We wanted to reduce the income tax or now to lower rates which are the basis for the calculation of 12% of the income tax based on capital, to reduce or abolish in the area of our work, to attract entrepreneurs because neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Treasury could get the information which is the amount of that tax that the bonds are and will pay. Now, if we were not able to get this information as cities, I am interested in why you are introducing a terrible category in Article 114(1) that you will have the right to gain insight into the data and traffic of current and savings roles of the owners of business interests and entrepreneurs. So if we don't trust our entrepreneurs and their messages, raise the money, will you expose yourself to one body that has no control or any special body to monitor the control of these transactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4170	Thank you. The respected Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4171	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Of course, I think we'll do it many times through the debate, but I think that's better. All of us come naturally from some local self-government, some of us perhaps worked more or less and participated in the functioning of finances. So we've been talking from the beginning, and I repeat that again clearly, all the burden of tax reform goes to the burden of the state budget. So the overall effect of these proposed changes in the Income Tax Act is in your ranking at 2017 at the annual level between a billion and 400 million and a billion and 500, so all that burden will be borne by the state budget. I repeat again, given the short term, and according to the agreement also with the Association of Cities, municipalities and counties, we will, with the Law on Finance which I sincerely hope and deeply believe, resolve the issue and problem of fiscal sustainability of the local (regional) unit and the regional self-government and solve this issue of funding and for 2017, make a transitional solution where direct transfers from the state budget will compensate units of local self-government for the same amounts for which it is "taken." So based on the 2016 budget, but taking into account what we just heard and some specificities 2016 mainly for mountain-mounted areas. These transfers from the state budget will not be treated as so far as transfers have been treated, so they will not enter those ratios or be treated as the original income of units of local and regional self-government, so there will be no additional effect of negative or pressure on these same budgets. However, allow me only in the last 30 seconds to answer, this year despite all these changes that have occurred and when the last time the Income Tax Act was changed, when there was an untaxable portion for 400 kuna, and there were no compensatory measures for local (regional) and regional self-government units, you today have a situation that in the first nine months the total result of all local (regional) and regional self-government units, of course there is a difference between them, is a surplus of their billions and 600 million kuna budgets. So I repeat once again, I think that the problem of the local (regional) and regional self-government should be guided by the principles of functional decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4172	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. In fact, when you step back a little bit and look at a big picture of this reform, you could ultimately characterise yourself with this final proposal as a reform that still prefers banks, corporations, I would say a small part of the more paid employees of our citizens and a very small part of the pensioners with the highest pensions that will profit slightly from this reform. What I am particularly interested in is your giving up on the reduction of the general VAT rate and, of course, the issue that I have raised on the board yesterday, to what extent and how much this is related to the fact that this project of recognition is being written down by banks for unpaid loans or to non-refundable loans because, in all likelihood, this move should be financially significant. You mentioned yourself that it's about 40 billion kunas of some potential write-offs, of course it's not all going to be in the account, but when you look at one extreme case that it's all something that's going to be written off and eventually tax-recognition in the event of a tax on profits, it turns out to you roughly and maximum of eight billion kuna. It means something that's very close or similar to what's expected to be a damages claim in a Swiss franc case. I asked you that, you gave one such indefinite answer to that question, so to what extent it relates to the case of the Swiss franc and possible lawsuit of banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4174	Thank you. The respected Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4175	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Here's yesterday, within the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, we held a debate, so let's find out again. Therefore, in this legislative proposal to amend and supplement the Value Added Tax Act at the moment, this option is not provided for to lower the general rate from 25 to 24, however, this does not exclude that the duration of the mandate will take place. I will personally, as finance minister, advocate this because I believe that the experiences of some other countries, regardless of what we see as just one percentage reduction in the overall value added tax rate, but still there are many effects on many products and services that are, of course, in the VAT system and experience of some other countries, very clearly showing positive effects. So, of course, according to economic, fiscal opportunities, and we will think about it as such, and it is certain that it will not be permanently delayed as such. As for the issue of the write-down of claims, of course you point out, let's call it such an extreme case. However, at this point today, banks have so much demand, at the same time our citizens and entrepreneurs so much debt to them. If things don't start up, and you know it too well because I repeat once again, these changes that were, in particular, only loans in Swiss francs have received some positive results because not only the reductions in these claims of banks but also the debts of citizens and entrepreneurs. Now, on fiscal effects, it's hard to talk about here because at this point if banks don't write off at the same time they don't even book income or create a tax liability. In other words, we are talking about the potential revenues of the state budget that would happen if banks made under existing legal rules and it is evident that this is not happening and we have a practical blockade of the system where banks retain their claims and unfortunately citizens and entrepreneurs remain under the burden of these debts, remain in blockades and cannot continue to function normally, or cannot be removed from these trusts, these debts. At the same time, with the relief of these provisions, i.e. by enabling the write-off, as demand and debt, I am again creating and repeating once again, we are creating the possibility that banks are finally dealing with those jobs that are actually in Croatia, which is the approval of new and fresh loans and that this liquidity they have is directed towards Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4176	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Miroslav Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4177	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Finance. Since I'm last with replicas to some things you've answered especially in this last presentation of yours, but I'd still like a part of the question to repeat, if in some things you can be a little more specific or at least try to give a certain assessment. As far as I'm concerned, including our fellow MOST, we, of course, support as part of the ruling majority the government's intention to help credit institutions, through profit tax relief, actually help our citizens. What you'd like to know is, some impact assessment that you've talked about before, and you'd like to know how much influence or control is possible, whether it exists at all in the behaviour of banks in these specific cases because we're afraid that banks will simply write off those debts they know are completely non-refundable in terms of certain companies that are more in fact non-existent while the burden on citizens remains. So here's the question of how the state influences it. And another thing about local self-government units, we are glad that the government decided to compensate local self-government units in 2017 for that loss. I heard how much I realized it would depend on the revenues in 2016. Now, I'm just wondering if you've been thinking about what pace these transfers would be, because I'm assuming that it's going to be based on a budget report that's coming up somewhere in the middle of the year, so I'm wondering if the local self-government units could expect you to be executed and helped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4178	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Finance will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4179	Thank you very much. You can count, I think it is already, not that I think it is already in this legislative proposal of the Tax on Profits Act in that article and in one of the sub-items it is actually defined that we will, of course, ask the banks for additional reports that will give us the evidence and indicators of these uncharging loans with the condition of 31.12.2015 as well as all that which is accompanying, along with this, to carry out the whole process in the way that we need to. And surely as the Ministry of Finance and as the authorities responsible for this, we will ultimately prevent any potential or potential abuses. But ultimately, of course as a possibility and as an option is given to banks. I repeat again, what is crucial and certain is relevant to this argument of yours that you mention that the banks will, of course, potentially go selectively and surely look at those elements that are really very difficult to collect. But I repeat again, therefore, how difficult it is for them to pay them as much as for the people, that is to say, to the citizens and entrepreneurs who have these debts, it is also difficult to deliver it all in the end. As regards compensatory measures for units of local and regional (regional) self-government, this will be practically operationally worked out at the monthly level all within the framework of, of course, this legislative proposal, or the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2017, which we will come before you within the next 3 to 4 weeks and which we will, in fact, explain this more closely, and at the same time of course, be maximum at the local self-government disposition which we are, in fact, within and over the year, of course, react as necessary. I must also point out this way, you all remember well that this was the first in which tax returns were conducted and worked by electronic means, that is, the first time tax administration has directed towards citizens in relation to the present. We apologized, and I'll take this opportunity to apologize for being late this year with those returns, and it's mostly with citizens who, of course, had the right to that return either in a way or in a liquid way, or considered challenging for certain units of local and regional self-government. But we found a way in after all their budgets didn't survive at all, or not at all, but the liquid, or rather, I think that we also managed to find through this active communication. This will also be the case from 2017 and I repeat again for the following years we are advocating and we will have one much better, better quality, fairer and more systematic solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4180	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4181	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, part of my replica is already absorbed in the past somewhere, but here I will look back only for two moments. Here you mention a change in the internal structure of the tax administration, you think this horizontal approach that was also a circle that hasn't produced very good results in these two years, and I'll almost agree with you. However, I am asking one question about what you have pointed out that the district offices will be established as a rule in the counties. I would like you to explain it to us or to explain to me what it means in general in the county because I am afraid that certain counties will again remain out of their office in the field of tax or tax administration in the area of a particular county. And second, what deadlines do you think this will be resolved or that this structure will change? And another thing I wanted to say or ask an independent service for the detection of tax fraud, so-called. You're saying you're raising him to a higher level, he's been under the minister's command so far, and now as I can see, he's going under the authority of the assistant director of the tax administration. I'm not sure that's a higher level, I know that you might mention to me how you're going to be able to bring in certain administrative acts now, but I think USKOK has shown very well as the one who discovered it, detected it and forwarded it further so that maybe he shouldn't bring any more acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4182	Thank you. The esteemed Zdravko Marić will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4183	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So as regards the internal structure, the tax administration organisation as I have already said in the opening and as a proposal for this legal solution and you can count here are, otherwise I did not present at the beginning but my colleagues and assistant minister or director of the tax administration, assistant minister of customs administration and their deputies and assistants, of course, a whole series of people who participated in this tax reform and reform package. One of the key challenges for us, assuming, of course, that the Croatian Parliament votes and takes effect on this tax reform, among other things, is free not only of Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs in terms of tax burden, but also of the capacity of the tax administration that we then have, it is our responsibility to adequately establish them, or organise them according to our natural analyses, or what we ultimately consider to be the best thing to do in order to ultimately, as you mention them, be at the county or some regional level to deliver the best results. Because that's among other things the taste of this tax reform. These released capacities to be directed really where they need to be. You know very well the problem yourself is that today you have certain tax administrations that don't know 70% of your working time spend on processing tax returns, incomes, real estate taxes and the like. So these are still some suboptimal, I would call them so-called resource and time locations. As far as the independent tax fraud services are concerned, I initially, or one of the replicas I said, so today she is in the hierarchy structure of the finance minister or at the finance ministry she goes to the hierarchy structure of the Ministry of Finance by us and one step higher, especially if she takes a comparison with his panda at the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to remind you that there is also a police BOOK that is also not with the Minister of the Interior, but within the framework of the Police Directorate, within the framework of the criminality administration. So one step below the one we're proposing. The head person of the independent tax fraud detection service or the Colloquial as you call it, the ICCOK will also according to the new systematization and structure as assistant director. So you will have a hierarchical structure and some major powers, and yet I repeat, with this above-mentioned organisational improvement, there will certainly be a staff improvement if necessary. And let me know, I know I overstepped, but let me just say one more short thing, when we're talking about horizontal integration, so it's not an independent tax fraud agency that deals with that kind of form. There is also a financial inspectorate at the Ministry of Finance with tax and customs. There is, among other things, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism. The office reports only one information at an annual level of 2.2 billion kuna suspected transactions in the last 10 years by law enforcement authorities. So they're doing their job, not just an independent tax fraud detection service, but all the institutions and body units of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4184	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4185	Thank you. You tell the Ministers that this reform of yours has two characteristics of importance. That she's on behalf of the citizens and that she's correcting some old injustices. I see certain cynicism in that. You make it very difficult for the citizens and yet you say it's very good for them. I'll only explain it to you on three examples, and there are more of them but it doesn't get into a replica of more than three. First you cancel the zero tax rate for buying the first real estate and you claim it's good for young families. So far they haven't paid any taxes when they were buying the first real estate now they're going to have to pay 4% and you're saying it's great for them. Well, then explain to me how it's better when they have to pay 4% more expensive real estate and that tax, that relief was introduced because of them so that they're easier to get home so they can start a family life, that they can have children. Secondly, you increase VAT for hosts. They will increase the price of what they will do. You say here that there are no foreign tourists when they come, so they don't watch what VAT is in tourism in some country they come regardless. So why do I care about them? I'm talking about our citizens, their tourist service will be more expensive, for them tourist service will be more inaccessible. So as you claim to them that it is better for them, that you explain it to me only that logic. Third, you're cutting tax cuts for... profit. Can you please give me a reason? It was introduced for a reason that corporations would not keep their profits but that they would... to open new jobs. So what's the interest of the unemployed that you are now protecting the interests of corporations and saying that, to look at my ministry is the interest of the corporation to keep that profit. God forbid they're reinvesting her. God forbid they're opening new jobs. Explain that to the unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4186	Thank you. The respected Finance Minister Zdravko Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4187	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I think, not to think, but I'm sure I never said that removing the first real estate relief is some super measure for young families, but I said that it's a measure that actually balances the treatment of used and new properties since today you have this distinction that there is no longer a possibility of using a relief for the purchase of new real estates because they are in the VAT system. So, I didn't come up with it, it's, of course, our compliance with the European Union. But I also said that for young families, and now I have noted, so I will repeat again among other things in the package of measures that do not include these tax changes will come among other things and measures that will facilitate their obtaining credit at subsidised interest rates precisely for the purpose of not only compensated but further stimulated. As far as VAT is concerned, we've talked a lot about it, and I'm sure there will be more. I think if we're going to sum up then I don't repeat the things I've already said. So I agree in one part when you say that this can result in an increase in the prices of their services, or products. I still don't think completely, because I'm repeating it again. Both on the side of the offer and on the side of demand they have significant relief. But what's for sure and sure is one hundred percent that there will be a cost of certain services such as waste of garbage, of course electricity and the like. And finally, as far as reinvested profits are concerned, I repeat the reinvested profits I have no doubt and I have no doubt that the intentions of introducing them were good. But the fact is next. Number one, the first year that relief was introduced by seven and a half billion kuna tax base cuts used 1.8% of entrepreneurs. So the negative effect on the billion-and-a-half budget. When this was seen in the third year, additional employment and material property criteria were introduced, which meant a reduction and a total effect to two and a half billion, but still significant. However, 0.8% of Croatian entrepreneurs used that relief for reinvested profits. And besides, in that relief, there's one thing I'm not a lawyer for, so I'm not calling here right now, but there's one legal one if you want constitutional inconsistency. This relief for reinvested profits by law is not made possible by the letter of law to craftsmen, institutions, even some companies. The institutions and craftsmen, since they do not have the basic capital, cannot, theoretically or technically, register the reinvested profits and some companies which are excluded from that scope by letter of law. We believe that it is much fairer for all Croatian entrepreneurs and not only for those 0.8% benefiting in 2015 to reduce the overall profit tax rate and to act stimulatingly on their activity both today and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4188	Thank you very much. Here with the replicas we then exhausted the replica fund to the opening exhibition, almost we shouldn't go any further. But of course we will. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. And now I'm opening a real debate. Of course we're going with the representatives' clubs. And the first of the clubs will be the HDSA, HSLS and the distinguished representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go. The deal is of course you can speak for 20 minutes. I appeal to everyone not to use all 20 minutes. Please. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4189	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, when discussing such laws, there is always one danger of going into that populist part and trying to catch a political point, and then often the important thing actually goes the wrong way. I'm going to say that in the last term of government there was here in the assembly very often criticised that the government does not produce laws, that there is nothing to discuss, and now here after a few weeks we have a large set of laws and tax, reform laws that actually direct government work at the beginning of the term of office and total politics in the Republic of Croatia for four years. Already one of the replicators here has said that it is good that at the beginning of the term of office it moves with such a bill of amendments because then it shows the direction of movement especially for the economy, for those who want to invest. We would all, of course, wish we didn't have a tax, not to pay it, to pay it as little as possible, even if we were to eliminate them maybe. But realistically, we know that it's impossible, that there's no state without taxes and that as such we have to have it. And since this is the first reading on behalf of the HDS Club, I want to refer to several laws in this package, ask some questions but also make some proposals. In the proposal to amend the Value Added Tax Act, we certainly welcome the reduction of VAT in the agricultural production sector from 25% to 13% for seedlings and seeds, fertilisers and pesticides, and other agrochemical products, and livestock food. For many years now, and I personally advocate the reduction of VAT on all living foods, so I am glad that partners in these social talks and trade unions and all others were listened to, and that there is no reduction in VAT on all food products so that it remains at the stand to remain that 5% VAT rate on bread, milk and several other foods that were already available. I have to say that, often, farmers themselves across Croatia have suggested that it is more important and necessary for them to reduce VAT to re-promatter, because at that time they can produce much cheaper products. There have also been certain proposals that it may not be going at the very rate of VAT reduction to re-promaterials in agricultural production, but to allow farmers to recover that VAT amount. But it would definitely be difficult to implement it, and in any case, a large part of our citizens would be placed in a certain position that we would not be able to take advantage of this preferential VAT rate, so this proposal with a reduction is generally good and absolutely acceptable to us. In this way stimulated domestic production, but whether we have tools to stimulate and Croatian hospitality, especially hotels, especially those on the Adriatic and restaurants, of course, that during the tourist season Croatian products prefer to be offered when they already have a reduced VAT proposal. I'm not satisfied, I know that many will not agree, I'm not satisfied with the fact that the VAT rate remains reduced for hotel half-boards and pensions. I think this is incorrect according to the other catering activity, especially the one on the continent, especially in rural areas. I think it should've stayed tight here and not lower that VAT if it was already an intensity to put it at 25% as an activity. And if we're staying with this, we're staying and we're going to support it, then please consider the possibility of possible inclusion in reduced VAT rates in catering and tourism in rural tourism. This would not leave any major negative effect in the state budget but would give one incentive to the development of continental tourism especially in the area where in rural areas people turn to this particular activity, trying to find a profit for their family and leaving that classical agricultural production, which we know today is in a major decline. Well, here's a suggestion for the minister. So I don't want to violate the total amount of these tax laws reforms, but I think it might be worth a little more discussion and a little more further consideration. I must also say that those criticisms that go to a reduction or preferential VAT rate for part of the catering activity, I must go back when that reduction law is passed and after what the experts who have calculated say, there has been no cost-effectiveness in providing catering services. As much as possible. The other day I read somewhere that even by about 6% there was an increase. And let's put that on a little bit again that hotels in pensions and half boards will mostly have foreign tourists because Croatian citizens rarely go into such arrangements and we really put ourselves in a position to actually help those who come to Croatia and who Croatia is still cheaper than many countries in the environment because we are still more competitive in that part of the price. I'm not a tourist employee, nor can I say that I've studied it very much, but I follow what people say, I follow some calculations, I follow the movements that happen here, and I think we might actually be more expensive with VAT, but we're cheaper with that input price of raw materials that come in and the entry price itself while others have it the other way around. Article 6 of the amendment provides for a reduction of VAT on children's car seats. The safety of children must always be at first and in traffic and understand intensity. I experienced it as a goal to stimulate citizens, parents to have seats in cars to ensure that children are driving safely. I think we should consider another item here, another category, and these are children's diapers. I think it might be for a parent and the biggest expense he has a day. I welcome every reduction, I welcome every reduction in children. It would be great if we could reduce the VAT rate to all children's supplies, to clothes and shoes and to all diets for children. We know that this is not possible right now, but this part of this supplement, if I can possibly think of it as a good message, that it would be a good message, and that it even has in these cuts of VAT on children's needs to have that demographic note that we're talking about, that we want to put in a way in the first place, and in the end, the government's message is when a ministry with that name is formed that it's a priority. The Law on Local Taxes speaks of real estate tax, what I welcome is that property tax is accounted for by the owner. It's the only way we can end up charging it. What's good at this point in this transitional period of one year is that we can somehow record what's going to happen and that's actually the sequel, one correction of the current municipal fee. But here I would also warn you of a moment tied to rural areas, to the country, to the nursing home, I have not been able to find it, so if there is already somewhere in the law I will ask you to give me a free pass and give me an indication, is there any possibility of freeing that property tax, the economic facilities of nursing households that are standing today empty and have no potential or the possibility of practically being put into service? They don't have any potential or ability to practically put themselves into office, to account for it now to people as some business space and can't be put into office I don't think it would be very good and I don't think any losses financially would be for local self-government because even now, in communal compensation, we're also giving that kind of liberation. Article 14 of the Excise Act introduces the concept of a small distillery as a producer of strong alcoholic beverages to which 50% of the excise duty on consumption in the Republic of Croatia is paid, absolutely to welcome, I think this can make a certain contribution to those who are small producers, these are particularly winemakers, in that second part meaning the distillation of brandy and beverages, therefore alcohol drinks. But I don't know if this proposal is to allow small producers also with this preferential excise duty to be placed on the market. If this is not some obligation that we have to respect for the EU, I would ask that we consider and move that part, in a way to protect our small producers, who will be in it, rather than losing their competition immediately by the same law, in the same article. This is about point 2, paragraph 3. of Article 14. In the amendments to the excise duty law, we welcome the suspension of the annual form for 41 thousand small producer taxpayers for their own needs, which is regulated by Article 15 of the amendments, the question remains how to regulate the possibility that more people can use one boiler. As it turns out now, a man for a few liters of brandy that he'll bake for his own needs must buy his own boiler. It's in practice. If there's a model, some mechanism, some possibility that would certainly help people and wouldn't do any harm. The Administrative Tax Act of Article 8 lists those who are exempt from payment of fees. In addition to all those who are numbered, which I fully agree with, I suggest that sports amateur clubs be freed from fees. Those amendments to the Law on Associations, the financing of associations, have caused great damage to sports amateur clubs, they are in a rather difficult situation in general. I think these sports amateur clubs, sports alliances, local communities, sports associations that could generally enter the category to free them here if we tried to destroy them in every way at the time. Amendments to the Income Tax Act with an increase in the non-taxable share of salary to 3800, which increases the number of non-taxable citizens by 560 thousand and totals up to 1.5 million citizens covered by this total of 2 million 750 taxpayers, shows us a real picture of the situation in society. We have low wages, and that's a big problem with our society. The real battle of this government after the adoption of this tax package is yet to come. Surely these laws have the basis to do so in this particular area, they can give some economic momentum and can in some way stimulate the economy to increase wages, which is very important. I would like to be in a situation in the Republic of Croatia if I could say that 80% of the people in the Republic pay the highest tax rate, it would be wonderful but it is unreal but let's try to put them as much as possible in those rates that still apply to higher salaries. The amendments to this law have caused some fear of local self-government, no wonder everything local self-government has suffered since '93. The year this device was built to this day. Every time there were some changes to the law, local self-government was always killed. Every time the word decentralisation was said, there was some new centralization and every time you were told you would be better and it was not said that local self-governments in their budget revenues were falling. Mr. Minister, as Head of Local Self-Government, a longtime leader who has had the opportunity to monitor all the actions and activities of ministers in all governments here in the Republic of Croatia, I will say that you have managed to convince me that this reform will not leave a bad effect on local self-government, you have managed to communicate with the Association of Cities, I believe with the Association of Municipalities and Countys of Changes of These Laws. You have managed to achieve that, as a representative of the Association of Cities as a rope presidency at meetings and presentations from several parties and opposition and positionals, if this is really how this is going to develop, we can all support it and do not endanger the functioning of local self-government. I welcome this one-year delay in law-making to record the situation. It's okay for us in local self-government right now to stick to it, to have the security to stick to it at 2016 level, sure that some of us might get more, now they'll get something less but it's important that the minimum and some kind of security be realized. And I ask you to continue in that section to continue such cooperation with the associations of our sectors and resources. I believe that together we can implement quality laws and that ultimately that law that will define certain income per capita in all local self-governments and in all areas of the Republic of Croatia as some minimum of that budget can be a good law and a good sign for the preservation of life in rural areas. The club of HDS representatives, HSLS, along with these suggestions and proposals will accept this package of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4190	Thank you very much. I can see that the longing for replication is not diminishing. The number of replicas is equal to 15, so let's start again from the beginning. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponze. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4191	Here's an esteemed colleague of yours, in his address in one good part, you referred to the VAT Act, and especially with an effect on hospitality. My intention is only one to contribute to the debate in this section to make this package of tax reforms even more quality. I'm putting myself, Mr. Minister, that we don't have a wide enough picture of this subject. 2013 The Croatian Parliament adopted a Tourism Development Strategy aimed at making Croatian tourism in 20 competitive countries in the world. We're in 33 places today. This raise, the proposed raise of VAT for catering, must we ask ourselves a fundamental question whether Croatian tourism puts you in a position of subjugation or in a more favourable position? This proposed measure definitely puts Croatian tourism in a subordinate position. I can't understand that we're having a discussion on the subject of one coffee, the price of one coffee. Two positive effects had a reduction in VAT first from 25 to 10, later corrected to 13%. The one who doesn't understand it should ask around the caterer. Significant funds have been invested in investments, investment, raising quality standards and additional funds for additional employment have been provided. This is very important and crucial in seeing all the issues and problems. I'll repeat, I'm offering a win-win solution. This is not just a topic for the Minister of Finance, it is indirect for the Minister of Tourism and it is much more for the Minister of Justice. The money lies with us, we have to resolve the status of tourist land, generate new incomes, new investments and further employ young people. Let's make an effort to come to that solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4192	Thank you. No answer, thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4193	At the beginning of your debate, you mentioned numerous criticisms and populist advances. Like you and I, for many years, we have been listening and reading in pre-election programmes and reforms, and reorganization, and decentralization, a statement of hundreds, however something has always been resolved partially, so we have downloaded the status of the mountain-mountan area, so we have been dealing with development indices and the permanent loss of local self-government units. Here at this point, which is why I personally support this package of laws and, in any case, the appearance of the minister himself because he convinced me that this is a complete solution and that one must make that cut and step to simplify the entire system. And I don't think there should be any problem in that part. One word that all of us leaders of local self-government sting and you mentioned it was the word compensation measure. In all laws and all governments, these compensatory measures have always been mentioned, and I personally believe that this word should be replaced by a concrete new Law on the financing of units of local self-government and we have a guarantee and a promise from the Minister himself that, over the coming year, such a new law should be passed. And if that's the case, then all this stuff we're talking about today is going to take a completely different picture. And finally, I talked about it at the club and today on the board, this package should be classified but should not fall in the Constitutional Court because a certain category of property taxation and I believe that you will all agree with me of those properties that are of strategic interest either for the Republic of Croatia or for units of local self-government that are not placed in a hotel type function in Halud, a type of land within entrepreneurial industrial zones. And I think there's a formula here to allow local self-government units to put that capital, dead capital to function, and force whoever puts the barata into it to invest and create jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4194	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4195	Thank you very much, dear colleague Klarin. Well, we agree, of course, we have the same experience and it's easy for us to talk about it. Definitely starting with what you last said, it would be good to put this mechanism in place because today we have according to cities reserved and busy spaces that some potential investor bought and never started putting into service, basically trapped space. The space is trapped and you can't help yourself in that part, you have a problem. So you even have a problem when a local self-government sells a space like that means you even put it in a competition, in a contract, you condition it that it has to start building at some point, but when it's enrolling on property in a garter, there's basically no mechanism anymore, you can't do anything to it. So he'll have to find himself. But what's important, just as you have confirmed, is that yet one comprehensive reform of the laws that are connected to each other, which all touch each other and all touch local self-government because there is life, absolutely welcome and what I particularly emphasized and stress again is good that it comes at the beginning of the mandate, that it can be practically planned. And it's good that it comes before the local elections in the end, because that part is right there, too, so it's going to be able to make sense all together in one real way, and this law that needs to come about financing local self-government absolutely must never come into a situation that you never know what's waiting for you and that some measures that should compensate for something are not equal to all of them. So every resident of the Republic of Croatia must have a minimum standard of budget, local in the space di he lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4196	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4197	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation, you praised the tax reform and that segment concerning agriculture, especially the reduction of VAT on agricultural production inputs from 25% to 13%. And that's to say hello. If this would ultimately lead to what we all want together to raise the level of agricultural production in Croatia, to raise the competitiveness of our food producers. I know that in previous discussions you have advocated 10% of VAT in agriculture and this has its justification for the reason that we know that in Bavaria, in France VAT is for the same instructions 5 to 7%. So we remain partly uncompetitive compared to European agricultural producers. On the other hand, what is far more important is not solved the market for agricultural products, and I think that this tax reform will probably be agreed with me by most agricultural producers expecting the new Agricultural Land Act to go parallelly and hastily, to put it into effect, the Law on protection against unfair competition, i.e. consumer protection, the Law on COMMASSATION, its implementation, irrigation and a series of measures to raise the quality of life in Slavonia and Baranja and all agricultural areas of the Republic. And another important detail, here I was last night at a meeting in the Great Kopanica. Says one of our farmers, I had 50 cows, I cut to 15. I've decided to sell those 15. Why? I expected my son to continue to run the family farm, get a job, pay around $3,000, contract for a certain time. He couldn't get a contract indefinitely, and there was no increase in the minimum wage, to force the employer to give him quality income, and he decided to go to Germany. There's nothing left for me but to sell cows. That's why this tax reform was supposed to solve minimum wage, and it was supposed to come up with a way to force employers, I say force them to, because the stimulating measures didn't make the contract indefinitely.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4198	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4199	Thank you, dear colleague Vlaovic. Well, here we are working together on that project to demand a reduction in VAT on food, not repromaterials, on food, on all the live supplies I said in my debate. You know that we have collected over 50,000 signatures and you know that Mr Milanovic, to whom we have handed those signatures, simply ignored it as if nothing had happened and there has never been a word of it. Not even one letter of reply to be said at all, okay. We admit that 50,000 people launched some initiative in the Republic of Croatia. We didn't mention the VAT on the re-promatter then, we talked about it, but we didn't suggest it like that, and I also said here that I would love to have all the foods brought down live to 10% at a preferential rate and that in that case it could be one rate for a total diet. But since it's not so that I'm glad that the partners in this social dialogue have been heard and that the rest is at that rate of 5%. As far as this second part is concerned, therefore this VAT rate for re-promatter is definitely derived from the proposal of agricultural producers. It will not raise agricultural production overnight now, but it is certainly a good stimulant and an incentive to launch some kind of production process to try to keep the few people who still want to do agricultural production, means in the country. That's why I was talking about rural tourism and that it would be really wise to make it easier in that part too, and not only on the accommodation, but also on that nutritious, catering offer because it actually keeps that agricultural production, it actually sells the products produced on the rural property. This second part sure that the right thing and I was also saying it would come to being an improvement when there would be greater pay for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4200	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Goddess Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4201	Dear counterpart Hrg, immediately at the beginning of his presentation, referring to the VAT you praised that a major impact will have a reduction in VAT rate to re-promatter. We're actually neighbouring counties. I come from Varazdin County and I don't know if your situation is so different from ours because I know that our farmers, our O.P.G.'s most of them are in the VAT system. Because everyone when they were getting tractors, equipment, any other working machines they could use the release had to be in the VAT system. Therefore, VAT must also be paid to their products. We know that VAT is a passing item. They've already turned down this 25%, and they've paid for their final product. So I think some great benefits to our OPGs from that won't be. It's going to help those little ones who really have home two sows, a hectare of land and who produce for themselves. While they make farmers of whom we expect nothing to change. So, what you said in your debate. If the final product were theirs, their household service would be taxed at a lower rate, it would be something else. We have a case with milk, and I welcome it to remain that way, but if we had that in vegetables, then with florists who are really big in our area and who are struggling with unfair competition outside, that would already mean something. But I'm saying in our county this isn't an important aid to our farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4202	Thank you. They will answer the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4203	Yeah, that's where we actually differ in approach. This was also evident in that meeting of the government of Zoran Milanovic, where we often faced the left and right sides in this particular approach, which is the goal. Are large manufacturers the aim of large systems or are small OPGs? I've always been inclined to find co-existence, and to help the small because the big ones are stronger, they break through easier, they go easier, they can get both credit and resources. That kid can't do it, every kuna matters to him. And these aren't my words for reducing the VAT rate and the positive effect. I know exactly where I was when we talked about it, in the pre-election campaign, we were in the Podravic Councils, talking to the villagers, with the producers, presenting to them exactly this. They welcomed it, said it was like a little great help to them, not even a big one, they just said let's see if it's possible for us to get back so much VAT when we buy the goods, not for him to be reduced to all that traders don't cheat on us. These were the words of agricultural producers in the Podravski Sesvedi in a conversation with them. I conveyed the words of Croatian peasants from Podravina today here in the Parliament. If they say it's okay with them, I absolutely support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4204	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Ivan Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4205	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, you spoke and welcomed the reduction of VAT to re-promatter. I remind you of an absurd that has been following our farmers who are engaged in conventional cultivation for many years, and that is what those who live along the border with the BIH went from Croatia to buy our own fertilisers from Petrokemia in BiH because there is a lower price. With these reductions, there will also be a reduction in the prices of this fertiliser and in systems such as Petrochem, which is almost monopolist and which is owned by the state, we will easily be able to control whether there really has been a reduction in prices. However, as far as the other things mentioned here are concerned, how we can be sure. I repeat again what I and the minister said... so there's no guarantee that this savings will actually come to the manufacturer without being eaten by the merchants. Only a reduction to 13% from the current 25, our 25 that we have suffered for many years, 22 long years ago is 5 to 20% more than other European countries dealing with agricultural exports, I don't know Hungary 5% in... livestock farming material, you have Ireland, you have Poland, it can be easily determined by analysis, there are even finished analysis. Therefore, much too much time has passed, much too much time Croatian producers have suffered multiple higher rates of tax and therefore, among other things, Croatian agriculture has come to this uncompetitive state in which it is now with all the others lagging behind in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4206	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4207	Thank you very much, colleague Sincic. I agree with you, it's been way too long that it hasn't reacted amongst other things and in this way. Yeah, but we're right where we are. Should we keep going that way or try something? It's good for me to try to do something. Are they really going to cut prices in that nominal, or are they going to do their jobs? So I believe that competition will still play its part and that, in the end, competition will make itself feel that VAT reduction is also at the overall price of the product. And precisely because of this part, you also mentioned the production of artificial fertilisers in the Republic of Croatia, so this is kind of an incentive for them to actually sell products a little bit better because people are going to buy a little bit more. You have recently that people in the indifference haven't even bought enough amounts prescribed by artificial fertilisers, which means they've been stagnated because of all these things. But believe me, that small amount of money that that little O.P.G. guy is going to pay at the store, that it's really very often meant that this reduction will certainly help him. I have dealt with a certain period of my life in small agriculture, and I know well how hard it seems to live at that time and today, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4208	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4209	Thank you very much. ... In your presentation, you spoke about agriculture that is very important for the development of the economy in Croatia, because agriculture is really important for all those people who are dealing with what has not really been encouraged so far. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] You've just said, and I agree that this VAT reduction to the inputs in agriculture is really encouraging for all those people who deal with it. But since we've been meeting for many years and we're talking about blue and green how we're going to connect our continental Slavonia to our Adriatic, to this day it hasn't happened. We are witnessing precisely that during this time period due to these tax changes we certainly want to use these benefits to finally bring both the continent and our Adriatic together. At the same time, we know that in some countries such as Austria, such as Switzerland, such as many other countries have protected their production. We are aware that there is no ban today because we are part of both participants and EU members but we simply have to do everything from various our ministries to do everything and protect our production before we import a new product.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4210	Thank you. The esteemed Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4211	Thank you, dear colleague Lucic, so here we have been dealing with this problem for many years in the Committee on Agriculture and we often talk and today we really do when someone says that these VAT reduction measures do not go in favour of agricultural producers, I will not comment at all on what I think about it. Yes, that's exactly what I emphasized in the debate that you're still particularly apostrophetic now, and thank you for that. So, speaking of reduced VAT rates for hotels, I repeat, what is the mechanism to force these same hotels to prefer a Croatian product? I personally think about it in one way, I think that once a small reorganisation of local and regional self-government, I don't mean territorial reorganisation, but purely in activities could do a lot in that direction. I think that by placing counties primarily in the role of farmers of agricultural production development in the OPGs, with the opening of agricultural plants, with the organisation of farmers, co-operation with counties in Dalmatia, this could actually be achieved through such institutions, to organise production here on the continent, to organise a placement and to organise it through such same units in Dalmatia. It's a model, it's a possibility. I trust Minister Maric when he said everyone promised but that this government would start implementing it. I think you'll have the support of us in that absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4212	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg, you have raised a lot of interesting questions in your debate. I was encouraged by that idea of yours about continental tourism or rural tourist economies. I come from Slavonia and I can say that in the last few years it has exactly been a swing in that part of continental tourism and it is a great help for the economy of Slavonia and Baranja, all five Slavonian counties anyway. I agree with you that this possibility should be considered whether a reduced VAT rate can go to rural tourism. But in the part where we generally talk about VAT in catering, I don't think anyone should be discriminated against. We'll either have a reduction in VAT rates in tourism for everyone or for anyone. So it's not good, I'm looking here right now from the constitutional point of view that the restaurants have reduced VAT and those where the restaurants don't. We should consider this with some kind of caution. I am then one of those MPs who believes that this comprehensive tax reform is needed, that the current system is quite outdated and I hope that in these changes we will go to that will be better in all the segments to which this tax reform applies. I also agree with you that we should consider the possibility when talking about real estate tax. There are plenty of abandoned households in Slavonia, a lot of old-fashioned households, burnt-out buildings, houses, gardens and these people can't pay that tax, and unfortunately they can't sell their property because that house in Slavonia costs 20,000 euros here in Zagreb costs 350 thousand euros. So when you sell it, it's no use. So let's consider being socially sensitive, that this tax reform makes sense. And I agree in this part with you when you're talking about these issues, there's a lot to discuss, there's a lot of these laws, but if we're changing something we have to change for the better, not that we have problems that are opening up in walking and that might open up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4213	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4214	Thank you very much. My colleague Salapić, however, here I am in the debate when I was preparing for the debate I had a certain number of rural tourism not only in this northern and central part of Croatia but also in Slavonia because I had a lot of opportunities to visit but I also had the opportunity to see certain rural tourism in Dalmatia, so in that part, and there is great potential for us. With that strategy of tourism that was brought here in this House a few years ago, the continental tourism was totally put into the party, the maltene is gone, it is clever and it offers what we all say, which is what we all stand for, which is practically from such parts, it offers the preservation of life in rural space, offers the possibility of hiring young people, not on the classic shine of wheat and corn, but on another service that is tied up and which gives the ultimate product and final customer ultimately, means the greatest value. And I absolutely agree the same with you, and I said that, personally, I think that in one branch it should be all the same, but when it's already like this, when these packages of arrangements are kind of hotel and sold, when it could violate certain, to say business results, then I think that, in order to save lives in rural areas and to stimulate these rural tourism. And these properties clearly, we all know that well, they don't pay off because it costs money.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4215	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4216	I think it's one cosmetic measure because VAT is the income of a non-agricultural producer country and whether the state will take 13 or 25% there is now less important as far as agricultural production is concerned. Because in this case, this agricultural producer, I'm talking about those in the VAT system, they're just going to have a slightly smaller input on VAT, they're going to be paid back. What Hrg tells you about is good for the family economies is for those below 15 hectares, if they have animals then they are even less because I am telling you this from the position of the agricultural producer who is also not in the VAT system and for me it will be good but the goal is agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia and we need to think about those who produce the products and these are exactly those of 15 hectares further to which this is cosmetics. We are not Switzerland to deal with cosmetics, but we must take the right measures that will really encourage agricultural production so that we can make quality agricultural economies smaller and medium in the VAT system that will then be able to join and just join in our tourism because tourism unfortunately for small economies is not good because it requires the continued delivery of these goods used by them. As far as local self-government is concerned, any reduction in local self-government income is catastrophic. We encourage local self-government to use European funds, to do infrastructure, and I ask you what it will support and maintain that infrastructure, because it can't do it today from unclassified roads, waterways, sewerage, and every day some money is being made from the funds to make as much of it as possible. The VAT is, the increase in VAT in catering is a measure that will make us less competitive than the surrounding area and we are happy that this is happening in the Middle East and then our tourism has jumped out of the rest but when Turkey enters the full drive then you will see how much it means for our competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4217	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4218	Comrade Lenart, in your second reading, you have the opportunity to give an amendment that you suggest that there is no reduction in VAT rates to the re-promatter in agriculture and if you accept this, you have solved this problem. I think we should cut it down. As far as local self-government is concerned, I said in the debate, I'll repeat, so I've been mayor for almost 16 years, and I'm allowed to know some devil about it. For many years, I've been a member of the City Association Presidency, we've had opportunities, or we haven't had the opportunity to cooperate with state bodies in law-making. Now we've had our chance. We have a man who we have delegated who actively participates in the working team, so we've been introduced all along to everything that's going on, we've been presented today according to this proposal and what's yet to come if that's how it's been presented then this is the first time that in principle local self-government will go better after the final adoption of the last law that should take effect in 2018. It'll go better. If this is going to be the way it is now presented, if it goes to that rate and the amount per capita, along with some of the additional elements that will be there, the local self-government will really go better, there will be a redistribution of funds, and it will ultimately not cost the state much more than it is now spending. We're just not spending as fair as we should right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4219	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4220	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrg, there are a lot of things we can agree on, first of all, when you're talking about reducing the VAT rate to re-promatter. Surely that reduction will have an impact. Let's take the classic production of corn where the entry costs per hectare are about 4.5,5 thousand kuna and the output of 9 thousand kuna then a certain reduction in imports of 1000 kuna, for example. It means a lot to a farmer. However, what we need to conclude will not significantly facilitate this measure for many agricultural producers, especially when it comes to labour intensive production where you have a lot of other costs that this measure will not cover. What's a bigger problem, and maybe it's not just the Ministry of Finance, it's mostly monitoring the credit institutions of the farmers themselves. Now, now, here you go to buy an artificial fertiliser you have at the price of, say, 100 kilos for 180 kuna. In the spring it will be 300 kuna. So farmers don't have the means, incentives don't come in time, and that's one of the problems of farmers. Of course, the problem is the exit price. There is certain that great players dictate the price and that is what the market affects. How many states can that be now a question? And when someone is speaking, I think that fellow Lucic was talking about blue and green Croatia is always the problem of what we have negotiated towards the EU and what we can correct in this regard. I agree with you to lower the price of hospitality for Slavonia, there will be no such reduction in VAT, in fact an increase to 25% other than hotelers. The hoteliers are quite financially stronger than the caterers in Slavonia and it is not even fair, counterpart Salapic spoke. Because in Slavonia, people couldn't lower VAT rates because you can't, I've said that more than 10 kunas of beer, where you're going to lower its price. And just in the end about this real estate tax, Minister Maric may not have understood what I was going to say, he said it was discussed with local self-government units but I believe that the local self-government unit must have through its representative body an impact on the final formation of that price. Let it be an age, let it be a state of mind, but because of these problems that my colleague Salapic is saying, however, the unit of local self-government has the final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4221	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4222	Well, dear colleague Zhagar, it is clear that this measure will not make an expansion in agricultural production. It won't be safe, but I'm sure it'll give a certain positive effect. As regards this part of the real estate tax, i.e. the transfer of the municipal tax to real estate tax, I believe that local representative bodies determine practically everything. So, only certain elements are given as regards certain points to say some points of these tax which will be not know what to call it but in any case the representative body will determine the zones, the representative body will ultimately have the possibility to determine the property tax according to itself. What I'm saying is quite frankly, and I'm not satisfied that this real estate tax is somehow not the same for all units of local self-government in fact. I'd advocate it. This way one unit of local self-government will cut, the other one will raise. One today has a cut, the other has no cut, and everyone is asking for funds from some other means, especially from the state budget. You see, there's one inaccuracy. If someone didn't take advantage of all the opportunities that the law gave him to make his own income, I wouldn't be able to compete for state resources, it doesn't make sense. And then boast I don't have a cut. And those others who have they get nothing, they have a cut and yet of course they have criticism from their citizens. So again, this local self-government, as I understand it, will have the ability to actually determine those heights, determine seasons, charges and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4223	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4224	Dear Vice President, counterpart Hrg spoke of a reduction in VAT in agriculture. Of course, that and my colleague Lenart supported it, only Mr. Hrg probably didn't realize that we're in favour of reducing VAT in agriculture. But the HSS also advocates reducing VAT in food agriculture, which would boost food use and boost agricultural production. But I can't agree with my colleague Hrga, he said he was the longtime mayor of the town of Križevci. And I've been chief of local self-government for 16 years, and by this Law on Local Taxes, I don't think it's good for the rural part of the area. Since colleague Hrg comes from the urban part, I think the law is primarily written more favourable for the urban part than for the rural part. Because we know that the new law goes into real estate tax, i.e. the house and garden on which this property is located and that the new law on these properties even increases to 10, 20 times that property tax compared to the current utility tax. I think with this tax, with our rural environment in such a bad position, we're just going to get more and more to move out of the rural area. And I find the law primarily favourable for the urban part, and for the rural one very unfavourable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4225	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4226	I'm glad to see you're the one who said that you're the state of this amendment to the VAT bill, so you're probably going to vote for it because you have something in it that's good for the village and for the rural space. No, from what I've realized in the end, the municipalities will be better off than even the cities will pass. But what matters at this point is we forget, put aside what should be in the sixth month when the law comes and when the situation is seen. Most importantly, it is said that the decision to implement the state budget will provide money for alignment in the budgets of local self-government, municipalities, cities and counties at 2016 level and monthly. So you can plan your budget at the same level this year for next year. And let me remind you what the planning was like last year, and we passed until we actually knew what we had to plan until 31.12.200 because there was no instructions that had never happened before.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4227	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4228	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Hrg, you encouraged me with your proposal to exempt certain properties of a type of peasant nursing home from real estate tax. You mentioned me to give my view of Article 31. Law on local taxes. It mentions that real estate tax will not be paid, meaning property owned by units of local self-government, construction land owned by units of local self-government, and sacral buildings in the section of religious rituals. What I think should certainly be stated and what should be included is what is with firehouses, which is with rooms of various associations, football clubs, mountaineering societies. So most of these objects were actually citizens building together on their own, and these are some of their places of association, their gatherings. We know for ourselves how difficult it is for associations to function and how difficult it is to finance themselves, so I think that there should possibly be a need to consider making some more concessions, especially imagine that your fire company that has quite a large property per square, must now still pay besides everything and real estate tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4229	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4230	Thank you very much. So when I was talking about nursing homes, I was talking about those economic facilities, the stables, what's empty now, actually, people aren't doing anything in there. So I realized that basically this could get into this category that you've listed because the DVDs are to say, ultimately, owned by cities, but maybe we should talk a little bit about it. I know, I know, everything's fine. I have 34 voluntary fire companies so that 34 rural homes in the area of the city and surrounding villages so that we know very well what it is, but in any case I support it absolutely the same as this part for sports clubs. That's why I was also talking in that section about amateur sports clubs about the opportunities to free them from paying the fees in administrative. But in this part absolutely yes, I think this is a good suggestion, I'm absolutely fine with it. We really need to see if that goes into that category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4231	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4232	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Hrg, it is good that you mentioned this case of relief for car seats which is definitely insufficient in terms of some kind of demographic and social measures, we could almost say that this is about bizarreness. So if they wanted to be suspicious, they might argue that it's a favor of someone's private interest that's not yet established. You have suggested that it would be much better to reduce VAT to diapers, and this is indeed true, because in this way this reduction would reach every child, not just one part of children, because at the end of the car seat can be borrowed, can be bought used, regardless of the VAT rate and reach a far fewer users. We will certainly write an amendment in that sense if you will not because that measure is good. However, the key issue also raised by MP Sincic is that it will be controlled whether traders have actually reduced prices in accordance with the VAT rate reduction. I'd ask Mr. Maric among other questions, I can ask you. There used to be financial police who had the right or obligation to monitor price corrections according to VAT, then the financial police were abolished, and we now see that in this tax reform, or those related to it, plans are planned and a reduction of the role of the taxpayers, so we have a real right to ask not only this question but also to suspect that it is actually going to the benefit of citizens again, but also to the benefit of speculators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4233	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4234	Thank you very much. I have to admit that the first thought when I read this for the car seats was the same to me you said. Then I started thinking about it a little bit and I came to the conclusion that it definitely doesn't drink water that way because there won't be some expansion of buying seats because of these few percent of VAT if a man can buy used or can borrow from someone considering that it's going like that, but I realized that it's actually working on encouraging the safe driving of children in cars because there is, my guess is I came up on such an idea of such thinking so that's how it is for me. But I'm saying I'm not against any item, item, child supplies I'm always up for it to be reduced. I mean, when we get to be real company. As for this part of who's gonna follow it, I said just before in one reply to the replica that it's the only right follow-up that can be is the competition of those who sell. But I've given myself an assignment, and here I suggest to you, that I'll list product prices in several stores in this sector of agriculture now and that when the law comes into force that it will go to check what happened to the prices and bring it out here. Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm really doing it to myself to do it. Institutional how to control it is very difficult, it must definitely be competition involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4235	Thank you very much. We'll take a break now. I'd like to draw your attention that at 13.21, it's time to report individual debates that will be held tomorrow. As for the pace of work, if we continue at such a pace as we have so far and the number of replicas, then somewhere expect it to end between five and six in the morning, do we have 11 clubs? So far there have been 15 replicas, calculated very easily how long it takes. I hope the desire for replicas gets a little lower this afternoon, but either way, I'll see you at three o'clock. Thank you very much. It's a 13,35 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4236	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. The next replica to the presentation of distinguished counterpart Branko Hrg, who spoke on behalf of the HDS club, HSLS, is therefore the next replica of Honorable counterpart Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your intentions, my friend Hrg, are your intentions. Your understanding of the tax policy is mostly according to the village and, of course, you should strive to do so because the fact is that centralization has devastated and almost nearly in terms of agriculture to one, we can literally show the colonial system in Croatia, so they have drawn wealth from rural areas, forgotten, and even silos have been able to empty themselves overnight where peasants and states would postpone grain. So one unprincipled policy towards the village, where the peasant was left alone on that burnt land. And now we have a demographic problem, we have one national threat in these areas, national security is compromised, and I think that, tax reform, if the small effects it does in the repromation will be great. But when we talk about the village and the peasant and the farmer, example, medicines, and it's good that the medicines are in health care, which is not increased, but 25% of the other drugs are on animals which are not good, and veterinary medicines, which is also great, here is the minister now, which is big for farmers the amount they pay. Therefore, there is still room that is not great for the state and can help our farmer and farmer because it certainly reduces only veterinary medicines, when we look at people in Slavonia and my Dalmatian Zagora, which literally has no cattle anymore and unfortunately because the policies have made it out of 64 thousand dairy producers, i.e. People who were involved in the production of milk, and today we have 400 and 600 and 700, so it was all fog, lie, the village is forgotten and this tax reform, if it takes a step, if it listens to the minister I tell him well, small things can be done for the village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4238	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4239	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, there have been many wrong policies towards the village and there is no one to be alimony there, and in the end today we do not have the right strategy for this perhaps most important branch of production because in the end there is nothing more important than food. There's no more important product than food. We're not exactly here in this country. And in my court, the most wrong was in one period, perhaps between 2000 and 2005 when the role of the county was actually removed from that fundamental role of its so-called so-called. Tudjman's counties were supposed to worry primarily about even development. In 2000, those legal changes were made and everything went the other way and we did not organize a village, peasants, we missed the opportunity to enter, or enter the European Union. And that's where we made that last big failure and failure when we didn't take advantage of the opportunity for two years to do what the Poles did to bring people together, to prepare them and thus prepare them, and in principle there was this greatest blow. I'm sure every reduction brings a certain positive. I've been thinking the same thing about veterinary services and medicines reading these amendments to the law but they'd go very far wide, I think this is the first step well done and the next step will go even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4240	Thank you very much, dear colleague Hrga. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4241	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Hrg, you have begun your debate to often want to pick up which political point so the debate goes wrong. You also devoted a part of the debate to the budgets of local self-government units. So here are two examples. One is the town of Leprechaun. We had heard that the budget of the city of Lepoglava in 2015 was lower by 56%. Now, who led to the city's budget of Leprechaun in 2015 being lower by 56%? I guess the government of Zoran Milanovic. Who was in that government? So SDP and HNS. Among other things, Mayor Skuric was then a representative in the government and regularly supported these legislative proposals and now as mayor of despair. Another example is the budget of the Varazdin County. The same government came to the meeting on 14.11.2014 with amendments to the Income Tax Act. Due to these changes and the addition of the budget of the Varazdin County in 2015, it suffered damages of approximately 19 million kuna. In 2015, it amounted to 60 million 287 thousand kuna, a year before these changes came into effect, 79 million 122 thousand kuna. And who raised their hands for these changes and additions to these legal solutions, which went against local self-government units? So SDP and HNS. So, today, counterpart Hrg, when the minister says this package of tax reforms will not go against local self-government units. It's interesting who is the most rebelling against these legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4242	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4243	Thank you very much, fellow Uncle. Yes, I remember that vote of the then amendments to the Income Tax Act, and then I told my colleague Skvarić, so how could you raise your hand for this? Then after that, I respect him really, I think he's a man and a successful local official and a good colleague and then when we analyzed what's going on and he says you know how it goes, he says when politics decides it's done and then there's these problems afterwards. That's why I pointed out that this is the first time I've had the chance to hear both the other side and the one to say such a comforting fact that it means taking care that the budgets don't fall. As far as Varazdin County is concerned and missing, that's where I'd expand the matter a little. So, we have a situation that the Varazdin County went to that megalomanic project of public private partnership, it went to the City of Koprivnica and, in part, went to Koprivnica and Križevci County when they made it sleazy put laurels around their heads then they said that now gentlemen from the state budget pay it. I'm against it, I'm against it. Why should the state pay for something that has not been practically made possible? It's someone's whim. So if you went to do something like that, go ahead and look at all the consequences and suffer these consequences. I don't mind county, I'm absolutely up for, I'm on this public-private partnership I think it's one big robbery and crime. I make it very clear that when it's calculated it's a miracle and I'm absolutely against that kind of stuff being covered by the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4244	Thank you very much. The next replica is a distinguished colleague of Nikola Grmoy's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4245	Dear Vice President, you've well-detected some things about this that essentially through these two steps, you're discharging income tax and income tax. Minister Marić's intensity and the expert team at the Ministry of Finance was to relieve our entrepreneurs and craftsmen, open the space for new employment and through this third measure where they were some, where they are planning to make changes around VAT means it was intended and to settle that budget gap that would be created by these discharges. Of course, many people are not happy about it, and so are our hosts, and I think it's good that this agreement and the compromise between MOST and HDZ remain that, with those who have accommodations, they still have a 13% rate and there are the biggest investments. And we hope that this will not have too much negative impact on our tourism and, in general, on investment in tourism. It's also good that it's agreed, so it's agreed to keep the VAT rate 5% for these basic foods bread, milk. You've also given the opportunity to introduce it and the diapers here's what I personally support. Of course, it needs to be seen how it will affect it, but in principle I support it. But what I really think most concerns us who come from local backgrounds is this compensation. We always have stories that something will compensate in essence that never happens to the fullest extent and always the units of local self-government more lost. We had a similar situation during former Finance Minister Lalovec. According to some now here are the budgets in the city where I am Deputy Mayor of the City of Metkovic because of the measure we have proposed, so tax cuts on behalf of the company will lose about a million kuna and this income tax around 2 million. For our little budget, that's a lot. I don't know if it'll all compensate or, for example. The other day, I was at a ceremony in the City of Kutina where the mayor also warned me of huge budget losses. It is necessary to seek to decentralisation and return these funds to units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4246	Thank you. I'd just ask you to stick to this for two minutes because we've all started dating and then I have to interrupt, but somehow you're looking at it yourself and it's still two minutes. Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replication of my colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4247	Thank you very much. You then have a lot of companies in Metkovic's colleague Grumo if it's such a loss of tax on the company. But I think it's still about a small tax. And we, when that proposal was in the town of Križevci, didn't think much about it at all, we said okay, and we were thinking about ending it ourselves. It's absolutely why this important thing, I repeat it, and I don't know which times, that it's given immediately and counter-to make an argument that it's going to keep the budget at 2016 level, and if someone is going to lose their income because of these changes in tax laws that it's going to be offset from the fund and from the state budget. As far as the caterer is concerned, I am absolutely in favour of this sector developing and tourism, of course. Who wouldn't be for that? But I think we can help the caterers in some other ways. Here's an example of this means that it's going to cut the overhead, communal costs a little bit, let's just stick to ZAMP, let's go to ZAMP and shut up a little bit. So let's see if we can cut the cost of the caterers here, they're very often complaining about it, they're very often warning and they're asking us to fall into it and get off their necks the most unscrupulous, rudest inspectors that even exist in Croatia, and we know what kind of inspections are. But these are three spears more rude than anyone else. Let's go a little bit, here's maybe it's the same opportunity to help with these laws, help with the catering, and say we're going to change this copyright law, reduce people and that burden. They pay taxes on not knowing what.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4248	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas with this. And now we move to the debate of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, on behalf of the club, distinguished counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4249	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, a respected colleague and colleague. In the beginning, it is quite clear that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this reform package of tax laws that we are discussing. First of all, I would like to commend the government and you, Mr. Minister, the Ministry of Finance, which is not even four weeks after the government has been appointed we here in the Parliament are discussing a whole package of tax laws. The fact that it has been as Minister of Continuity for 10 months, but still for the first time here in the Parliament has come such a comprehensive reform in this case of tax laws. Therefore, it is commendable and I hope that we will continue not only with other laws, but also with reforms that are before the Government and also with the Croatian society. The fact is that with this tax reform, as you have already said many times, we relieve Croatian citizens somewhere around 2 billion kuna and that you are announcing the macroeconomic stability of public finances in Croatia by saying that in 2017 we will go with the deficit of the state budget to 2%. If we know that you are right here in this assembly, it seems to me in March of 2016 that you presented the 2016 budget when you said that the deficit of the state budget would be 7 and a half billion, and 2.2% of GDP with these two billion additional redundancies of Croatian citizens, I must say that it will be a challenge for the Croatian government. In order for us with the year in which we are, with a planned deficit of 7 and a half billion even though we still know that today, that is, when this package is adopted with an additional two billion, it is 9 and a half billion if we are still in this year it will be despite the projected GDP growth in the next year that you announced, it will be a challenge that the Government can lay down all those commitments that the budget is obliged to finance. That's one thing I wanted to say. And the other thing I'm saying is that tax stability, the tax system, is one of the preconditions for one country's development. We have witnessed that, in the past term, in the previous term of office or in the previous term of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, we have changed four basic laws, tax laws, which is income tax, profit tax, value added tax and the Law on Contribution exactly 44 times, or once a month. The best way to dissipate both the bravest investors and literally endanger business and successful entrepreneurs. So I read somewhere these days that it's good to go into reforms in one society, to make the first reform a tax reform, that's the first thing, to make it quick, to be comprehensive, and to forget about the tax system for a while afterwards. If we want to make the state friendly to investors either foreign or domestic on the one hand, and on the other hand, if we want entrepreneurs to feel secure that they can negotiate in the long term everything they have to negotiate. But now I'd say something more concrete. We have previously said on October 19th that we have brought the Government's programme for the period ahead of us and that we have established the basic objectives of this programme, which is to achieve stable and sustainable economic growth, create new and quality jobs, stop, move out, demographic restoration and social justice and solidarity. In this regard, when these main objectives were counted, it was said that 5 basic pillars were to be established for their implementation and the first most important pillar was a full tax reform. Then I remember well on behalf of the club I was talking about that program. It is announced in substance how the reform will look in short lines, but as it was then announced it is now in these 15 laws and proposed. In fact, what brings us the proposed tax reform? The main objective of this tax reform is economic growth and employment, strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, more emphasis on social justice, promoting demographic recovery, retaining highly trained staff in Croatia, promoting the development of crafts and entrepreneurship and encouraging farmers. It seems to me that when we read the laws proposed by them 15 that, in all these objectives, the main objectives of tax reform through the reduction of rates, through a series of benefits, tax reform is just reflected in the main objectives set itself. And I therefore believe that this tax reform has led to an account of the discharge of entrepreneurs and citizens, the limitation of rates, tax rates, sustainability of public finances and the sustainability of the financial system of local and regional self-government, the achievement of the key macroeconomic objective, which is that the general government deficit is at 2 or below 2 per cent in the coming year. When we talk about dispensing entrepreneurs, this discharge is achieved by reducing the overall profit tax rate from 20 to 18, and for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs whose incomes up to 3 million kuna per year are reduced from 20 to 12%. In my opinion, here is the first serious measure towards small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in Croatia. So, it decreases, 10% for all entrepreneurs in Croatia the overall profit tax rate, and for small entrepreneurs 40%, so 8 to 20 is 40%, and that's what I think not only about small entrepreneurs but about farmers and thus the tax we talked about, and I'll say a few words later on, the Slavonia project is also recognised at this reduced profit tax rate where, for example, farmers are allowed to significantly reduce the pay on the basis of profit tax. As a one-time measure, it gives credit institutions the opportunity to, as a... acknowledge the expenditure of the founding amount of write-offs of bad loans. That's what it was all about during the morning, so I don't want to talk about it much, but in any case, I support this measure independently of what can be hidden behind this measure. I also support this measure because it clears the balance sheet to the bank and allows it to move over in the coming time to new loans to encourage investment and job creation. For me, this is an honest approach. I remember the pre-demand settlement, the pre-demand settlement proceedings when the believer had to write off part of his claims, although the state paid all the obligations and VAT and the profit tax and still remained without the part that he paid to the State, and was written off through the Pre-demand settlement Act a large part of his claims. In this context, I also see this part of the fact that, through this change of profit tax, it has been contributed to entrepreneurs. As far as income tax is concerned, I think it is very important to conclude that through changes in income tax of 2 million and 750 thousand Croatian citizens who are taxpayers of income tax, that now over a million and 500 of them are not at all in income tax rates, that is more than 50% of Croatian citizens who should pay income tax will no longer be taxpayers. With this measure, 560,000 Croatian citizens will no longer pay income tax. There are also comments, with 900 thousand citizens who have not previously been taxpayers of income tax, that other measures, which we have already talked about this morning and what these laws are talking about, are also helping to improve the standards of those citizens who have low wages and who have not previously been taxpayers of income tax. But the fact is that out of the 2 million and 750 taxpayers in Croatia, the taxpayers of the incomes of them a million and 800 will not be taxpayers of income tax. Now here we come to what's already happened this morning, and we're also talking about it, what with local self-government, how to compensate in local self-government. I trust the minister that this 16th law that has been announced, the Law on the financing of local self-government will see the light of day as soon as possible despite all these simulations that need to be done how and how quickly the units of local self-government are damaged. I agree, and the mayors will have to propose budgets on the basis of this 2016, but it would be good for the government to be credible what it wants and what it announces, that the government comes to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible, that as soon as possible the law comes into debate with the interested public to make sure that these billions and 400 million kunas will be transferred to local self-government units, so that the burden of change passed by the Income Tax Act has fallen to local self-government units where in the Republic of Croatia has already distributed public funds in favour of the state in favour of local self-government units, 86 seems to me 14 or even 87 make 13% in favour of the state. I think it is very important that as soon as possible he comes to the Croatian Parliament with that 16 law that would make this reform even more complete, but I believe the minister pointed out most of the times. As far as VAT is concerned, experts commenting on the announced reform were pleased with the original proposal for reform. This is the fact that the original proposal for reform presented for macroeconomicists in Croatia and tax experts was more acceptable is that every law that comes to the Parliament is part of and compromises between social partners, so employers and trade unions, so we absolutely accept it. But it should be said in this context and the following, that the changed tax reform of the one that was announced for some time, I hope not all the time of this government, stopped the reduction of the general VAT rate from 25% to 24%. And that is why it should also be said that the fact that we gave up temporarily, I say again, I hope temporarily, not permanently, since the reduction in the overall VAT rate because the ordinary VAT rate in Croatia is one of the largest in Europe, I hope that we will still make it possible to give Croatian citizens an additional discharge by a billion and 800 million kuna of what is one percentage point of VAT. So the good side of this compromise with trade unions and social partners should be seen on the one hand, but on the other hand, it should be borne in mind that we have now temporarily given up the measure because it is clear that macroeconomic stability should be maintained in the first order and stability of the state budget. I would also like to say something about this section relating to the reduction or increase in the rate of hospitality. I believe that every time there is an increase in certain taxes in any activity, there is no approval. And I understand the guests in Croatia who are not overjoyed by this measure. And I've already said it in this House once, and I'm going to do it again. At the same time as the rate increases from 13, to 25 we testify on the other hand by reducing the VAT rate by another production activity, agriculture for all those inputs that make up agricultural production from 25 to 13. Here we can conclude the following, however dissatisfied with the fact that the caterers will have an increased VAT rate but in this context the redistribution of goods from one largely seasonal service activity as production activities should also be observed. And I think that it will be easier for us to curd our position to compete in the Mediterranean, with prices that today have Croatian tourism and Croatian hospitality as part of this tourism will be easier to deal with with with competition than we will recover Croatian agriculture. So, as far as I'm saying, as much as I understand the position of hospitality, I think that the East of Croatia, Slavonia, agriculture is the strength of the CAP and through this measure and the measure that I talked about earlier is very important. Therefore, I do not want to say that this is about solidarity but I would like to say that this is a measure that can be approved when we know how important is the smooth development of Croatia. I understand, and I heard very well from my colleague Sponzo this morning on several occasions when he spoke about the win-win situation, to be satisfied with both the government and the caterers, but I would like to remind you that the HDZ government adopted the Law on Tourism Land in 2010, I am one of the authors of that law. After that, IDS had two ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia. It's strange to me that after five years, we're asking ourselves why we didn't realise it when the most responsible in the government was the minister who came from the IDS. And I don't know why he cares, I don't know why it didn't work out. Hundreds of thousands of squares of tourist land either in camps, or in hotels with that care. And it's a challenge for us, and here I agree with my colleagues from the IDS, this is the government's big challenge how, uh... The huge building land you put into function that hotel complexes, not only private but also those who have not obtained a concession on this building land can go into the realisation of the entire investment project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this needs to be started as soon as possible and continued with the realisation of the law on construction land, on tourist land. I wanted to say a few more words, and that's, that's local taxes. Local taxes were practically derived from the Law on the financing of local self-government, those taxes that are exclusively, belonging to the domain of any county, any cities, any municipalities, while common taxes, income taxes, income taxes remain to be resolved through the Law on the financing of local self-government units, which I mentioned earlier. I would not simply say that real estate tax cannot be enough to support the financial potential of local self-government units. I am also saying this because neither the municipal compensation has been sufficiently used in Croatia as a major source of income from local self-government units. Why do I want to say that? In fact, we were doing an analysis of 2% of local self-government units in Croatia for 2% of local self-government units that made geodetic measurement and catastran buildings. And it has been determined that these units of local self-government that have a new geodetic measurement that I've stood for since the first day I've been in this House because it's a shame that our still most important real estate records are based on the 1830 measure, so 200 years ago. So it turns out that those units of local self-government, cities and municipalities that managed to do so have 50% more income than municipal compensation just because of the coverage of buildings and areas that increase the budget of local self-government units. Therefore, I would not view at all with the growing possibility that, through a property tax that is in line with the need of units of local self-government, we are better able to control our surfaces under buildings, by flats, under production plants, factories, etc., they can significantly increase their revenues. And not to say that through the new geodetic measurement when the property is being settled is the rise in the price of real estate in that unit of local self-government, it is growing drastically which then through the property tax these 4% that we have reduced with 5% of the contributions certainly better, we are doing better filling municipal and urban budgets. Here, and finally, certainly we at the HDZ Club will support this. We expect these remarks, which will be made through the first reading, to be carefully considered by the Minister and the Government, to move forward as soon as possible to produce this 16th law, which will then absolutely complement this overall reform. Here I would, Mr. Minister, finally congratulate you on this project of tax reform because I hold that, as was already this morning's speech after 20 years in the Croatian Parliament, one full tax reform comes again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4250	Thank you, too. Eight is a replica. The first replica is Honored counterpart Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4251	Thank you very much. I see the government's conclusion of 3.11. of this year, which gives the government the agreement that, due to the shortness of time, the objective circumstances resulting from the regulation's impact assessment process are exempt from the drafts of these laws. Looking at the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations, reading its articles anywhere, I did not see permission by the Government to exclude the assessment of the legal effects of the rules based on the conclusion. Indeed, the law does not apply to the assessment of the fiscal impact of the rules on the state budget, so it applies to all other laws. Where an emergency procedure is proposed for the regulation for which the impact assessment procedure is not carried out pursuant to Article 11(1) of this Act, an ex ante assessment shall be required according to the prescribed form. The previous assessment shall be accompanied by a draft draft regulation with a final draft law. This provision shall not apply in the event of an emergency procedure for the immediate removal of the threat and damages. We can't see any damage or danger from the damage itself. What the Government could do and did not do is, in Article 23, which says, "Extremely from paragraph 2 of this Article, the provision of that paragraph will not apply, and that is the statement of the procedure for the adoption of the law itself." And in that case, no statement should be applied but the whole procedure of this law should be implemented. I think that with this conclusion the Government violated the Law on the Impact Assessment of Legal Rules, so I ask that it be respected because the question is whether then all laws will be valid or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4252	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bačić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4253	Dear Mrsic, the government has had two approaches. The first approach is to avoid making an assessment of the financial impact and to bring us practically before the final act due to the adoption of the state budget, because of everything that awaits us at the end of the calendar year. On the other hand, this principle is more acceptable to me in which we discuss here in the Croatian Parliament on these laws as in the first reading, after which I expect the Government to actually carry out an assessment of the individual financial impact for each law. Although, on several occasions, the minister mentioned to us the financial impact of all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4254	Thank you. Another replica is Honored counterpart Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4255	Thank you, Vice President. Your colleague Bačić said you have a comprehensive reform, I cannot agree simply, and this is still visible from the debate, the presentation of the minister himself. This is a partial reform. And if I can further support this by whether an industrial strategy is consulted or whether it is important, whether the tourism development strategy that has been adopted in this home is just two guidelines for future comprehensive reforms. Furthermore, you said, I trust the minister. I would also like to trust the minister and his team as well as the compensatory measures and all these laws that are going on, but I believe that we are all doing a more responsible job here to go on to say we trust someone. I will believe when these compensatory measures come here to Parliament, when Parliament adopts that law and when citizens, or local self-government, sees what and how at the moment. I mean, I agree it's nice to believe, but I'm too old to be able to end it. That's one thing. The second thing, so far past the two governments, this is the second government to do some kind of tax reform and the first thing we believed was the same, I believed at least like you, so it turned out I shouldn't have believed. This government between the same HDZ and the Most fortunately didn't do anything to us all. This one has now begun immediately with tax reform, and that in the air is compensatory measures. You said you were discharging citizens, so I'm asking why tax on construction land? It's a whole new category. He would remind you, and I told the board there was one solution that the Constitutional Court abolished was, in fact, considered an unconstitutional tax on unprocessed agricultural land. This category is also asked, there are evaluations, administrative procedure, great possibility and I expect a lot of complaints about the solutions issued. Here it is pure as an affirmative suggestion from the minister. So study this because with the introduction, let me give you a minute, excuse me a second, so with this substitution we haven't done anything except that local self-government here has no more domestic tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4256	Thank you very much. But I'd really like to ask you, given the number of clubs and replicas, if we could stick to it for two minutes and just concentrate for two minutes. Dear colleague Bačić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Batinic, I remain in the position of full tax reform. Said what I think is missing. However, given that the minister also announced the adoption of the law but also here publicly, not only here at the pay phone, but I believe that the Ministry of Finance will, in that sense, direct certain guidelines towards the county, city and municipal, towards the county, cities and municipalities that the budgets are based on 2016. I think that by that letter the Ministry of Finance should be referred to in a certain way a lot more talked about than whether I believe or do not trust the Minister. I, the Minister, given everything he's been doing in these five or ten months, believe but I'm also sure the mayors, the mayors of the county will get such an instruction as and in how to form the budget. That the document will then make it clear that it will be able to form its revenue sides of the budget and that the government will have to respect it. Because in the case of 1 billion and 400 million kuna, I agree with you, I think it could be very difficult for local self-government in Croatia to function.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4258	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished counterpart Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4259	Thank you, Chairman. So, fellow Bačić, you follow Minister Marić in the deception of the public where you insist that the deficit of the Croatian state is at an annual level of 7 and a half billion kuna. And just recently, Minister Maric said that only in 2017 must Croatia pay 27 billion kunas of dues. And let me know now how you managed to cut it to just seven and a half billion? Simply because you run double accounting, so you hide this 27 billion from the public eye, so you claim it's only seven and a half billion, so it's supposed to be nine and a half billion. Nicely say Croatia will have a deficit of 34 and a half billion kuna in 2017, or 30% of Croatian budget. And these stories about how now Croatian citizens are going to live something as a better life are completely, so it's pointless because all these tax reliefs that are supposed to come will be financed from external borrowing. To this external borrowing, we will have to pay interest and eventually the citizens will spend even more money than they are supposed to get. And Mr. Maric is now talking, and he's preparing for just a month's new debt of more than one billion euros, and now he wants to calm us down here with some aspirin that we're going to have here 15 kunas lower the price of garbage transportation. Therefore, tell the citizens the truth Croatia is in agony and this government has not offered a solution to finally stop or at least relax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4260	Replication response, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, very soon we will have a budget debate for next year where we will see exactly what the deficit of the state budget will be. What's true, that's that for 2016, so this year's deficit of the state budget was 7 and a half billion. If we know that Croatia returns around 12 billion kunas of interest annually, they are included in the budget and form an integral part of the expenditure of the state budget. Therefore, it cannot depart absolutely from those figures that the Ministry and the Government here in the Parliament propose when it comes to the state budget. As for the extra budget funds, if that's what you're thinking, on the Croatian highways I think there's been a lot of times here, that the liabilities of the extra budget funds are not included in the budget and that the government will deal with them through the refinancing of this public debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4262	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Bačić, you mentioned pre-departure deals and you mentioned the effects of these tax changes, the amendments to these laws on tax on better business entrepreneurship and business and craftsmanship, so I'll say it would be good to remember these pre-gathering deals because they left such deep wounds, especially on small entrepreneurs, that they still didn't come out of this boiler today and that today they're fighting for life, all of which is because some of them managed to write off their debts in the way they were destined for the law. You also talked about disproportionate distribution of tax revenues between local self-government and state. All right, even these amendments to the law won't improve that ratio in favour of local self-government. But what's at least right now won't make it worse. But the intensity must be that in future tax changes and adjustments of tax laws go in the direction of decentralisation of financial towards local self-government because only in this way will we be able to make one general development in society in general and in all parts of Croatia not only in Slavonia. Because we have to mention here both Lika and Prigorje and Moslavina and Bilogora, there are similar problems everywhere. There are similar problems in all these places.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4264	Replication response, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4265	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hrg, I couldn't agree more with you. I am a supporter of fiscal decentralisation, increasing the powers of both the county of both cities and municipalities, and I think this is the right way to improve the situation in the Republic of Croatia. So decentralisation and fiscal certainly what must be followed. I hope that in the term of office of this government we will testify to this project. I failed to say in my 20 minutes a few words which I also support, and this is the Tax Administration Act, where as we can see, as a rule, the district offices are returning to the county headquarters. I think that's very good. I was expecting to say that this trip as a twin sister would be run by the Customs Administration, so I think that for some further changes, the way the organization and the Customs Administration are about to reflect the model of the tax administration's funding. I believe that, through the strengthening of the position of the county, it can be contributed to a better, more even development of the Republic of Croatia, not through further regionalisation, i.e. a reduction of the powers of individual counties. That way I can certainly tell me a better settlement of this law relating to the IRS. It's on the trail of what I and here in the Parliament have always represented.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4266	Thanks again. The next replica is distinguished counterpart Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4267	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, Comrade Bacic, I agree with you. The aim of the reform of this kind should be economic growth, new employment, higher consumption. However, two problems are in this reform, tax reform money goes mostly to the better paid, so richer people where most of that money will go into savings will not be spent. If that money had gone to less-paid people and retired people, that money would have certainly ended up in consumption. But more importantly this second question, the question of how will this reform affect investment? We have heard here that the taxation system is being changed in a way that reduces the rate to leave any more money for investment, however a provision or relief for reinvested profits has been abolished. The explanation is that only 1.5% of entrepreneurs used that relief. But when you look at the structure of entrepreneurs then you should know that 74 000 companies that today exist with zero employees, that the next 66 thousand are small enterprises, that the next 3 thousand is only 2% of medium-sized enterprises and that only 0.4% is large companies. So basically these 1.5% of those who have used the relief for reinvested profits could be classified into medium and large enterprises, and that's all, and that's not small. I would like to emphasise this because there were serious amounts and what is very important to know is a much better and stronger instrument with protective interest on capital than what is the release of all entrepreneurs of a percentage of profit tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4268	Thank you. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4269	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Greek, so I said it in my opening statement. So 940,000 Croatian citizens with low pay already do not pay taxes. So, no income tax is possible, I mean, it's not possible that the state is now going into some kind of negative tax to raise their wages. In fact, the state in the real sector except for employees of state and public services is not an employer. What the state can do is... raise the line to get as many citizens out of income tax scissors as possible and thus raise their wages, which is exactly the case with this law. So it's not little, I don't know you should see what the situation is with other countries, but that over 55 almost 60% of all taxpayers pay income taxes in one country don't pay taxes, that's enough to talk about the social sensitivity of that country, which is really in its own right to do what it can do, which is to release income taxes and thus increase wages. By increasing wages, it increases consumption, and I hope that through the increase in consumption it will also feel on the revenues of the state budget. As for the elimination of the possibility of non-payment of income tax on reinvestment in an individual entrepreneur, I agree with the formulation said by the minister. If the measure has not been successful, if only 1.8 or 08% of all entrepreneurs have benefited from that measure then it is not affected, something is wrong with it, something needs to change. And I accept then as a solution, although I agree with you, it's for those who have used a very good measure, but either it is not recognized or not, the effect is very small of such a measure. This measure to generally reduce all entrepreneurs by 2%, and to small entrepreneurs by 8%, I think it's quite acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4270	Thank you very much. The next replica is Honored counterpart Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4271	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, it seems to me that both sides of the assembly don't talk about the same things. Some say something's shrinking, one that doesn't. So I have to admit that when we talk about tourist destinations then we want to get where it is good, quality and safe, so I understand our Croatia as well. If we have a stable tax system, we will also have investors who will want to invest in the Croatian state. What's been back a few years is certainly not good. Tens of changes in tax laws and it certainly isn't good and it doesn't give away one good vibe, one good picture where it would be good to invest. So, reading all these drafts of the law and today I thank my colleagues from the ministry for giving us a detailed explanation on the committee, I realized that this was a certain discharge by looking in integral terms, so discharge. I would suggest that we talk less about form, more about content, and my colleague Bacic, what I'm interested in, perhaps, might say a little bit more about how this will compensate for local and regional units. So from what I understand, somewhere it's taken, the states will compensate it and they'll be equalized in that segment. You know, she has one blessed one who does not see, but believes, she has one. Therefore, I trust the minister and his team is the only one on the other side of the assembly staying or remaining to believe that if you knew you would have gone into major tax reform, and not in the mini-reform tax dollars with the mini tax reforms you have done great harm, and the greatest benefit for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be with this big tax reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4272	Thank you. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4273	My colleague Mikulić, first of all, on that first part of yours, when a country considered to be good investors, friendly, one that has arranged property-legal relations, arranged spatial planning, which has the simplicity of regulations and protocols anyone has a stable tax system. These are four basic preconditions for a country to be competitive and be friendly with investors. I believe that this tax reform has made assumptions that we have at least solved one of those four fundamental pillars and that it is up to the Government to continue with the other three pillars that are not exactly, apart from the spatial arrangement, which I think is solidly covered, that the prerequisite for investing in Croatia is. As for compensation, the units of local self-government, I think it's the minister very... I simply explained. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As much money as cities, municipalities and counties in this year have had from income tax from the state budget will be transferred monthly or already not quarterly until a law is passed that will allow for proper distribution, better allocation of funds from common taxes. It's the only way I think. In addition to one oral surrender, I was invited by the minister to solve it by the Ministry's district as soon as possible and to adopt the Law on the financing of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4274	Replica No. Seventh esteemed colleague Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4275	Here's a respected colleague, you've touched my debate and expressed wonder at the role of the IDS ministers in the government and on the subject of tourist land, so I'd like to say that you and I both know very well that the IDS Minister's VAT rate for hospitality has been reduced from 25 initially to 10%, which is later corrected to 13%. But the truth works for both the public and you and I know very well, no matter who it is the Minister in any government and any call of the Government of the Republic of Croatia unless he has strong support from the Ministry and the Minister of Justice and in this new composition of the Government and the new Minister for State Property Management to implement the subject of the law on so-called. tourism land will not be possible to implement. You know it, I know it. However, I would also like to say that I would also like to help the Minister of Finance himself, who is the most responsible for the sustainability and stability of public finances, to consider one fact, which is that the whole of Europe, on the need for a low tax reform, has, in particular, a tax on catering, has a much lower interest rate than is proposed by this bill. So I will say specifically, Spain has 10%, France 10%, Italy 10%, Cyprus 9%, Austria 10%, Portugal 13% and behold Croatia's rigidly centralised state and Greece's most centralised state in Europe 24%. Therefore, agreeing with you to make a real effort to get to that win-win combination through the adoption of the Tourism Land Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4276	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sponza agrees with you and I hold that 4, 5 years behind us the state has lost huge resources, and you probably know hundreds, hundreds of thousands of squares, building land with numerous hotel complexes, tourist hotels, tourist companies that are not in the concessioning system. It's huge money. Therefore, I think that the tourism sector must itself advocate that this law would be amended as soon as possible and in any case implemented. That's not good. It is not good on the one hand that the state remains and we as parliamentarians need to take care of and certainly also of the revenue of the state budget that the Republic of Croatia remains without large funds, from the collection of concessions or leases or something third in those areas. On the other hand, this fact makes it impossible for the same companies, tourist companies, to go to new investment cycles on this land through the right of construction or in some other way. Therefore, you and I agree, it can be for both the state and the tourism sector the win-win situation is just, we have to admit, we have nothing to hide anymore, 5 years is behind us and we haven't done anything even though the legal basis was for it. And I don't know if in that context, on the one hand, we leave the tourist land alone, so we'll reduce the VAT rate to any thought. But in any case, the VAT rate has been reduced, but on the other hand, the money they would have to pay has not been withdrawn from the sector to make the law real. And that's where we have to be honest to the end and say it like that. So I am, because I think tourism is too important, to finally solve the issue on one side of this we will always talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4278	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4279	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, in your speech, you made it clear that this reform is comprehensive, that it aims to relieve entrepreneurs, that it aims to enable greater revenues to citizens and the stability of public finances during one budget or more financial years. And what do we have on the other side, on the side of the opposition? They're against it. So one acceptable goal, one acceptable vision, and we come to the side of an opposition that's against all of this, and it's looking for a reason why it should be against it. And then we're surprised, I'm surprised because I remember that time before it looked, so we're dropping almost everything we drop can and raise one step at a time if I understand that well, this one to the hospitality. And when they were in power, they would lift everything up and put it down right there, and they would raise it up a little bit when they needed it, and now they're against it. I don't understand. I don't know why. And today we hear that we are cynical, which means we are saying something that doesn't say and we are very clearly defending our attitudes and saying what it says. As they explained some of their activities in these 44 tax hearings, here I will remind you because I am here already, I don't know the 3rd term, so let's just remember. First move to raise VAT by 2%. Says the then minister raising VAT is a function of protecting the weakest layers of society. So we raise the VAT by 2% points and protect the weakest layers of society. And it went through like that no one was complaining, 3.5 billion more in the budget, let's move on. In 2013, the Law amending the Tax on Profits is adopted, and that is interpreted by Mr Linic. What does he say about this write-off that we talk a lot about today, the possibility of a write-off of bad loans? Says colleague Linic, don't start the errands, but write off some of the debts. And to that, Milanovic, let's give people a chance to catch their breath. And in two years, 12 billion kunas, 12 billion kunas, here's just to finish, and today they're asking us why we're doing it and who's going to cover those holes in the budget? That's the price.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4280	Thank you very much. We end up with replicas, and a pardon reply to the replica of our colleague Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Boric, we do not expect the opposition to applaud the passing of such a law. Although it's not too much to say, nor does it slow down the entire package of laws too much. There are certain parts where they try to challenge the quality of the reform itself but that is, I mean, that is the kind of parliamentary life. I would remember one thing, which is when one of the first measures in the 2012 budget was raising the VAT rate from 23 to 25 and at the same time contributing to the discharge of entrepreneurship by reducing contributions to health insurance from 15 to 13. The epilogue was that on the one hand the health system had almost collapsed, and on the other hand, as you said, the measure was as said by counterpart Linic to help weaker layers in society, but very quickly the measure was returned from 13% to 15%. Therefore, it was only this short-term to try to explain, in order to try to justify raising the VAT rate from 23% to 25%, but it did not remain a lasting measure that was envisaged for disbanding entrepreneurs from 15% to 13%.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4282	Thank you. We continue with clubs, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4283	Dear Mr. Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues for representatives in the Croatian Parliament is always an important thing and a great day when they receive the laws and legal initiatives of this kind. It agrees or disagrees with what is proposed in the solutions but in such a short time since we function as the Parliament and since the government is formed to get such a prepared package of laws with such serious matter as tax reform or most of tax reform it deserves respect. And even though Minister Maric has continuity over the past government and certainly has not prepared him in two or three months, it deserves a serious approach and serious debate. And in that sense, the SDSS Representatives' Club as well as national minority representatives, other national minorities think that we finally have good material for discussion before the Parliament, the right material for discussion would be said. Therefore, it is not only real because it has caught up with the right things, an important instrument for which the state regulates what is important to it, and this is a matter of budgets which the state regulates a significant part of its powers in relation to citizens and relations with companies, i.e. business and business entities. But what is significant is that in this initiative that I say we can agree or disagree with individual solutions, and some will not agree with the basic idea we have a element or we have a segment that certainly deserves to be valued positively. The country, our society, our economy, our economy due to a monetary policy that is static, because of monetary policy which is undynamically suffering serious and difficult restrictions when growth is on Wednesday, when on Wednesdays, they are able to strengthen the production, industrial branches and on the other hand, when it comes to the possibility of strengthening competitiveness and strengthening exports. With what has been done with this set of laws and with this change in the tax sphere, it also affects the elements to which fiscal mechanisms can, it affects the elements concerning and the values of our national currency. It's a significant achievement. A significant achievement because this creates a more comfortable, free space for the economy, for the exporters and for the competitiveness and thus for growth. And that is undoubtedly a positive contribution to this initiative. And on that side, the club representative of the SDSS and, if I may say on behalf of other representatives of national minorities, we welcome that component. As far as VAT policy changes are concerned, it is good that correction has taken place regardless of what I believe the minister would have liked to have been uniform because it would have been consistent with the basic intensity, which is that the law is as simple as possible and that the whole tax collection system is as simple as possible because it is then easier and easier to control it and easier to monitor it and it is easier to count on the total possible income from that side. However, social opportunities and the range of social inequality, social uncertainty, social uncertainty among our citizens require that we have a slightly higher degree of sensitivity and at least as a transitional solution to retaining 5% VAT rates and a 13% transitional rate for some categories is undoubtedly good. And we welcome it as a club and welcome the fact that it is harmonised between the club of representatives, between the government and other partners within the coalition. What I would like to say here was a lot of attention to whether it is fair to tourism by one of our most pro-pulsory branches where, of course, a significant part of GDP comes from that branch. Is it fair to abolish the previous rate and increase from the previous rate? And then I would ask the question by estimating the interests of people who advocate that this rate does not change and that the advantages and benefits that the tourist branch gives to the Republic of Croatia should be preserved. But I'd ask a question and what about other branches? What about the other parts of the earth in the end line? What about Slavonia? So, from here 30 km from Zagreb, I count from western Slavonia to Podunovre. What about Bania, Luc and Dalmatia? How are we going to adjust tax policy as a presumption of development policy for these areas? Whether it will be constantly in the zone 50% less for areas of special state care as it has been for years or we will find some other mechanisms and pay particular attention to that space. I say this on purpose because, obviously, tax policy is not sufficient instruments for growth difficulties, in the development of these areas, one significant part of Croatia could change and could be triggered. And for that reason, I would like to tell my colleagues who rightly advocate what was acquired when it came to Dalmatia or Istria, with the right and I do not dispute their right, but rather the opposite. I think they have a lot of right to fight. But, on the other hand, this fact should also be taken into account, and that is that these areas that have severe hardships develop every branch, including tourism, including one that is native to those areas, which is agriculture should give them a special opportunity and special attention. Of course, as you can see, no one is asking for exceptions when the areas and their economic activities are affected, and surely with those reliefs that come for parts of these areas, such as the assisted areas, would certainly be of considerable benefit. As far as real estate taxes are concerned, there are a few things I'd like Mr. Minister and respected colleagues and colleagues to draw attention to on behalf of the SDSS club. I think you've courageously entered some solutions, that you're relatively fast and easily transforming the municipal contribution into some kind of tax solution on the property came up with something that might be sustainable, but there are also a few questions that I'd like to ask the team about. First of all, I'd like to say that removing the benefits of getting the first real estate requires an answer. So, what is the mechanism that the ministry, or government, will have as a substitute for that fact, which would allow young families to get to the first real estate easier. And which would at the same time be some kind of injection for the construction sector, because actually with that solution that we've had so far has been aimed at two goals. It is one thing to help specific groups to get as easily as possible to the real estate, and on the other hand to encourage the construction sector. If you can tell the Ministers a word in your address how you mean it, in what way the Government plans to substitute and what measures it is. Because as you say, other measures for young families. We would like to hear what measures these measures are so as to strengthen the conviction of what you are proposing. As for issues of communal compensation and enlargement with two other criteria, which is age and the current situation in some cases can create difficulties in people. In particular, it can create difficulties in people with a war-related area. Imagine people in Nustre or imagine people in northern Dalmatia in the region of Knin or Ervenik where there were also a lot of damage, here in '91. in Nuštr, and here in '95, whose facilities are back in '62, '63, I take an average or '72, '73, and some of them have been renovated in '96, some in 2006, and some will be restored in 2016. With this calculation, they're actually going to get a significantly higher amount to pay towards the local self-government unit. And all areas are markedly affected by both war and lack of economic activity and employment. If Mr. Ministers and colleagues and colleagues, it would be fair for the state here to find some kind of way to subsidize these people with what is necessary without changing the law, not making too many exceptions and not damaging the units of local self-government because many people will not have the opportunity to pay for it. Here are the chiefs here from a municipality in that area north of its municipality that can testify to the city, I apologize. Therefore, I think it would be extremely important to consider what to do in such cases. That's not a small number of cases. The second thing when it comes to local taxes, the expansion of the taxable part of real estate in these areas, which includes both economic facilities and economically unused objects for these people, will be a punishment, they will not be able to pay. Life stopped for them at one point, and their property is still there. If this property were to be functional, these units of local self-government would have where to fill their budget with the solution that you offer. But like this, when you compare the state of mind that you have with a real state, unfortunately that's not going to happen. So, Mr. Minister, if you can ask your co-workers to take away several such municipalities by the second reading to see what the situation is and what you can really get with the solution you're offering. You know, undeveloped or unused building land in certain areas must have a huge price, but what areas are these? It is certainly not the Nustre area I have already mentioned, just as it is not the area of Lishana Ostrovici. It may be somewhere in the Istra area, it may be somewhere in the Brač area, but in these areas it certainly isn't. So the question will really remain the question, whether such a solution will be enough for local self-government units, mostly municipalities, unfortunately, the cities are few. As far as an important topic is concerned, which is the issue of a write-down of bad bank claims, poorly-placed loans, it will certainly make it easier for bank institutions to resolve. 40 billion kuna if the exact information I've read is 14 billion of those who have gone into oblivion is something that needs to be solved. But on the other hand, what does the state get for that significant gesture that includes a write-off of tax claims because otherwise, if it wasn't, the banks would have written it off by themselves long ago, probably, if not all part of it? And secondly, what criteria will this be and what benefits will the state, government and therefore the citizens have in relation to this measure and that move? It is speculated that the issue of some citizens' loans or certain citizens' responsibilities will be resolved in relation to banking institutions such as the issue of francs and such as the question of some others. I don't know if that's the case. And we'd like to hear a more complete answer if you Mr. Secretary had something to do with this. Finally, as regards excise duties and assistance to the OPGs, small winemakers and making it easier to reach the external market, these are good measures. Good measures for the areas I talked about more than my colleagues and colleagues said, but also good measures for islands, good measures for different areas including the areas of Slavonia and northern parts of Croatia, and this should be welcomed. In the end, Mr. Secretary will depend on two things, and you know it better than I do, as well as your associates. But you have to say it out loud, and that's discipline. Like any reform, and in particular the tax depends on the degree of discipline that the state is able to apply, and on the other hand, in the budgetary discipline of your colleagues and fellow ministers, members of the government. If you succeed in ensuring that you and the prime minister will then a good part of our objections that we can hear here during the day, of which none of them were malignancies and none of them were unwitting and none of them were unfounded. If you can ensure that most of the objections will be made, they will fall into another plan. And lastly, if after this you and your colleagues take other necessary measures to monitor tax reform, first and foremost regional development policy, primarily full policy, economic, economic policy of the country, then we can be sure that your reform will have positive effects. And that is why we encourage you to take this necessary second and third and fourth steps because then you will confirm the foundation of this step that you have set out for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4284	Thank you very much. Comrade Pupovac, you've acted on MPs very calmly, you only have one replica. Dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've only got one replica for the reason we've all listened to be as few replicas as possible so we can get to the line sooner. However, when his colleague spoke, he spoke about the communal fee, i.e. the real estate tax, and referred to certain parts of Croatia. But this is the right place to say that 26 municipalities and cities of 556 as many as there are in Croatia have no municipal compensation at all. In these municipalities and cities, municipal compensation does not exist at all, is collected by a municipal fee of 0% and will be very interesting to see how there, who will issue solutions and what will be related to solutions. In doing so, it's not just parts of the Republic of Croatia that were devastated, whether or not '91. Or during the eviction we have a chance to see. So we have Slavonia where we have abandoned houses whose market value is, I'm afraid, zero or a little above zero. But here we have a matter of principle, in these 26 municipalities and cities that don't harvest, we have all, so at all degrees of development, so they're not just at that lowest level of development. And so I am absolutely clear on the idea of real estate tax. That idea wasn't since yesterday, I have this material that was made in 2003, so one material that was made in 2009. And what we got in the explanation that this is a gentle transition to real property tax. But no matter what my proposal is, and it seems to me it would be much better to settle the utility fee, to set up some criteria there and only then go on real estate tax. However, the Ministry of Finance has opted for this model, so I am extremely glad that a respected colleague has asked for some answers from the finance minister, but it will certainly need some answers as to how we will introduce a property tax where there is no utility fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4286	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4287	Dear colleagues, in addition to what you have listed, so the number of units of local self-government in which there is no charge for municipal compensation I could, of course, list the fact that when it comes to ownership and legalisation and when it comes to a number of other aspects, we also have a number of unresolved issues in this area. So I can't agree with what you said, and for that reason, it seems to me that the ministry should find some kind of substitute if it wants to keep this mechanism, what for such cases and for such areas must find some kind of substitute which will then be an additional substitution for both development and sustainability of opportunities in these units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4288	Thank you, too. The next debate is the debate of the IDS Representatives Club. And I'd like to ask my esteemed colleague Boris Miletic to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4289	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, for your time with your colleagues. Here I will try to present in this debate the views of the IDS, PGS and the List of Rivers, on this tax reform, perhaps with a slightly greater emphasis on the impact on the tourism of this tax reform itself, bring some firm arguments to us, perhaps in part and concerns and suggest something. I usually like to say that it is always more important to me than the form itself but when we talk about this tax reform that directly affects an economic branch that makes up 18% of Croatian GDP, so almost one fifth of our GDP and when we talk about it and without the profession or people working in tourism living from tourism that they are not consulted, then I think that other than the content is also important and the form itself. Furthermore, I think when it comes to these estimates that it's not enough just to keep an eye on it, but that certain dynamic assessments should also be made. What seems to me to me this tax reform will have a state budget in the short term, this will certainly be evident in the next financial year but I believe that the long-term budget and our economy will in principle be lost. Why? Because it is the role of the Parliament that unanimously voted in the tourism development strategy by 2020 and when such a strategy is adopted unanimously by the highest representative home, we can say that therefore a broad consensus has been reached. I wonder what message we send when only after three years we go to change the laws absolutely the opposite of the adopted strategy. Is it an urgency that this House continues to vote in principle on what the Government proposes without any public debate, without consulting the profession, without consulting those to whom the tax reform is directly concerned. And what else must we ask one question as to what kind of message as a state we send to our masters and to those who may intend to invest in our country? What it means for investment potential, for an investment climate when, after one strategy adopted in the highest House of Representatives, we only go to that extent to drastically change the law in one sector such as tourism where de facto man asks himself a question so as to make one of the most basic investment studies that should foresee at least some period of return of 5, 7 investment not to speak 10 or 15 years. And in tourism, the return on investment is not so fast, so it takes some kind of longer period of time. And speaking of tourism, I think we need to focus first on its multiplier effects. So we're not just talking about nights, pensions, products, catering, we're just talking about a multiplier effect for our food producers, farmers, winemakers, oilers, olive grovers. And we are talking about that tourism in Croatia de facto represents one big chance of direct exports. So we can export our products directly through tourism in Croatia. And then surely when we talk about tourism, we don't just think about how a respected colleague said it in the coast, about Dalmatia, about Istria, about Kvarner, but we're talking about all of Croatia, we're talking about Slavonia and other areas that produce agricultural products that are thus directly placed through tourism. What the strategy predicted and what should not be so easily changed, something that is unanimously adopted in the Parliament, is how to reduce the impact of seasonality in our tourism, or how to assume that classical vacation, experience the sun and sea one more quality tourist offer or more quality tourist product. So what we have to focus on in this country, so I'm going to say in all sectors, not just in tourism, that's exactly what quality is. Because I'm afraid we're simply too small to survive on the global market as some sort of average. So we have to pursue excellence. And on the other hand, when we talk about the seasonal impact of tourism, then it was meant to build a really big infrastructure that would bear one top load of 10, 11 or 12 August when in the evening there should be enough electricity for all the furnaces, for all air conditioning, enough water supply for all those who need water, there should be enough infrastructure to pick up all the municipal waste and can thus be accumulated indefinitely. So, in principle, this cost of infrastructure is largely borne by our citizens who use it 365 days and by reducing the impact of seasonality, this particular infrastructure that is expensive and which is built and which should be maintained in this way would have less impact or less pressure on the local population. And in order to extend the season, it is necessary and this strategy has been established so as to go towards greater quality and to go towards building solid objects, so objects such as hotels, tourist resorts that should be strengthened in their capacities compared to the current influence of the camps that you will not, because of their nature, depend heavily on climate conditions, or it is not realistic to expect that tourism in the camps will take place in the early spring, late autumn not to speak in winter. And that's where we get the de facto key when we talk about tourism. On the one hand, he had large investments that took place in tourism and investments are the consequences of what, I'm not going to say reduction, here I heard a decrease, a privileged VAT rate, I'm going to say that our country has adjusted the VAT rate in tourism compared to our competitive destinations. There have been talks about Italy, Spain, France, Portugal that have significantly less burden on tourism than Croatia has. No one invented it, we are simply as a party and as part of this government that has therefore taken responsibility for the tourism sector proposed that Croatia, if it wants to be competitive in tourism, will adapt everything to VAT rates in the rest of us to competitive destinations. So we have this investment part where these investments are made by our builders, and there are employees and our craftsmen from that ceramicist, plumber, electrician, so that's what people do, and that's what drives one economic stopper. And on the other hand, we normally have that regular business where I already mentioned it, so the possibility of direct placement of our products through tourism as one direct export. And then we get to the hospitality, so by adapting the VAT rate to the catering, there's been a few effects. The first thing is to a significant extent the tax ejaculation is reduced. It is impossible for me to accept that in a few years the catering traffic has doubled, or that prices have doubled. Simply because of the adjusted VAT rate, there are hosts, ok, fiscalization is also introduced. This must not be disturbed by the mind, but the catering traffic has increased from 4 billion kuna to nearly 8 billion kuna. This resulted first of all, so across a tax base that with a lower VAT rate de facto got the same effect. This resulted in an increase in the number of employees of over 10,000 in our country, which is a significant number. We can read this in other words that these employees who are registered, therefore who receive legally their own personal incomes on them is calculating not only income tax but also giving for both the pension and the health system. And what is very, very important, so during this period our caterers decided to invest in quality, in restoring their facilities in a way that raises the quality of the tourist or catering product. And I listened carefully to the Honorable Mr. Minister when he pointed out EUROSTAT's data in a way that Croatia is with Portugal, so compared to the European average of some 70% and that the price of these products is among the lowest. But I'm here to ask if our citizens can pay a higher price for catering products? Can they afford that? Can we view it this way when we know and what the level of personal income is within the EU and how much of our citizens remain for this type of consumption, or perhaps it is a proposal to increase the price of hospitality in such a way that we have a price list for the local population, and therefore for foreign tourists something more. I think it is not acceptable, that this is impossible to implement and that it is very difficult to expect that to a significant extent, prices can be increased within the catering sector to compensate for this difference in the increased VAT rate. It could also be heard that there is simply no time for the maltene budget for 2017 to be made, which is based on these tax changes. And then a man asks himself a question, so why not first or second reading, or any public debate of 20 days when we know there's no time. The date is 8 December if I read correctly when the budget should be adopted by the Government. And normally, we can ask ourselves, is it really only fair to put a full burden on one sector of this tax division? So, de facto that price will pay only one branch, which is tourism. We're like IDS, so we insist on reducing VAT in tourism, and I think today we can say what the results are. So since the VAT reduction, since 1 January 2013, more than 1 billion and 600 million euros have been invested in the tourism sector. So I'm talking about investments greater than 10 billion kuna or something. It also increased revenue, profit from tourism from 7 billion and 200 million to 8 billion last year. And they've been increased to a significant extent and overnight, so 25% of what it says about over 5 million overnights. So the results are visible. The tax base is wider despite the VAT rate that is closer to our competitive countries. And I think in this way we're de facto doing something that won't echo well in public. On the one hand, we adopted the Strategy, said by 2020 these rules would apply. We're changing them now. In the meantime, people were also in charge and invested in their facilities, because they had some calculations based on the instructions and the basis of the tax burden. I think these people are being deceived and that they can rightly experience it independently of what maybe someone else is seeing as some kind of owner or by driving expensive cars, they have a lot of money. On the other hand, there are many who can barely make it through hospitality to feed their families by working 12, 13 hours a day in a way that all family members do. I believe we may have two directions. One is this model that is proposed, to make something out of the existing framework with a certain redistribution. I'm going to say that the existing framework is too small and de facto that we're trying to do what is coloquially said to transfer something from hollow to empty. Another model should go along with how to increase revenues and I think we have been able to show and prove exactly inside tourism how to enable, i.e. create preconditions and assumptions, so to increase revenues and this has happened to new investments, investment in tourism, improving the tourist product and increasing overnight stays. And now these effects are being seen because it's been a few years. This isn't going to work overnight. With this tax reform you have the majority in the House, you will vote, I have no illusions at all that you will not. But this tax reform won't happen overnight. Seventeenth, eighteenth is gonna be okay. But then the nineteenth, twentyth, when if this stays the way it is, and I don't really believe that every year we're going to go into tax reform, it certainly wouldn't be good, there'll be no investment because there are other countries, we're not the only ones in the world. The owners of the hotel industry are mostly people outside Croatia. They'll go where they can fertilize their capital better. I'd like to get all this out that I'm absolutely wrong, to meet you in three, four years to look at the numbers. The numbers are clear and you're denying me. I'll apologize and be the happiest if I'm wrong. But I believe that in this way we simply place one significant branch of the Croatian economy in a subordinate position compared to our competitors, so destinations. I think it would be much better today when we have positive trends in tourism where you see an increase in the number of overnight stays, where you see really significant investments in the sector and at a time when Croatia right now corresponds to a favourable investment climate of capital has quite enough in the world. Money may not be so cheap under quotes for a long time, to take advantage of this moment and even more open Spanish investment in tourism that will tomorrow bring a larger tax base, new incomes and new jobs. I think it would be wiser at this point than to go with one by me short-term vision, there's enough here to grab it, and now we're going to grab it, there's not going to be a tectonic disorder, and what's going to happen in three, four or five years someone else is going to worry about it. And in order to not only talk about tourism, a very brief review, my colleague will do something more in the individual debate, when we talk about income tax and additional centralisation. Look you said, don't worry the state will compensate if there's a lack in the budgets of the units of local administration and self-government. It all kind of reminds me of that story whose money is ours. Therefore, units of local or regional self-government should require central government funds for work and programmes when these funds are created and added value is created at local level. I think the only key and we always agree on it in the pre-election campaign is to say it, it'll be decentralisation, we'll change things we won't act like that anymore, unfortunately it stays in words. I believe that the key to the state would just be decentralisation in a way that would bring more powers and more responsibilities down to local and regional self-government. I don't know what all these state administration offices are for if that county with its existing capacity could do today. Finally, not long ago, the president of the state administration and mayor's office was one function, which is why today we have such an incompatible duty in the mayor's parliament did he once act as well. I think that's how we'd charge the state budget. I think the local administration is much more efficient than it is state-owned and that this could all work better together. So what I think is a solution, we've shown that the results in tourism justify it, the IDS has shown that it knows very well how and the numbers of it, deny me but these numbers confirm it, I see the solution in decentralisation, more efficient and cheaper management for both the state and the local community. I think that at this point VAT should be reduced in tourism, however, to further stimulate investment and employment. In this way, the tax base will expand and I believe that the state will have the same effect of VAT or equal income. And third of all, it's crucial to put into function a state property that has been staring empty for years. I'll give you just a few examples, a former airport near Pula, Muzil, Brioni, it's a state country that's been abandoned by the military for years, staring simply blank. The local administration has done everything, made spatial plans, and I would not allow myself to go up any form of tax while on the other hand I have property for which there are written interests of investors, both domestic and foreign and staring blank. I would try to do anything to put it into office first, to ensure new investments, new jobs, and tax increases, and even in one branch, would be my last move. Yes, this must be a difficult way, it should be put into operation, it's much simpler to make tax reform and thus ensure in one sector additional revenues, but I keep it even though it's a harder way to basically make it the only right way in the long term, the only right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4290	Thank you very much. Two replicas. The first one is Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4291	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague. You're here in view of the space you come from, you've opened up the problem of investment in tourism, and there's really a big problem in Istria a little bit smaller, but I'd say the further we go south, the bigger the problem I want to say. So what is purchased in the conversion that is in the purchase is a lot of great potentials that are located by the sea, and it is about areas that are intended for tourism, which are for hotels, which for other types of tourism that are devastated, which are not used, whose owners are known and the basis of the current Law on the Communist Economy, because they do not pay a significantly reduced municipal fee, which you know very well because from your club, I think you are all the mayors of certain cities, so you know what I'm talking about, and now it's happening to you next, that you have a devastated space, that it's in the spatial plan for tourism, that the one who owns that space doesn't lead to purpose, that when it comes to communal compensation, there's also the release to pay very little, and that it's actually the space is on your burden. I'm not going to tell you at all what's going on here, it's a great example to me with which I'm always talking about Haludov's space which is intended for tourism can be brought in for a purpose, the investor doesn't want to bring in the purpose has such a communal fee that he's very simple to pay in that last day and finishes the story. It seems to me that there is a great potential in this law that such spaces that are clearly defined know what their purpose is that, in terms of tax, it is not that they should pay less tax but that they should pay a higher tax. So who wants to pay a bigger tax and have attractive places by the sea to have, but if not, then do something else. At one point somewhere in 2015, we talked about it, it was too late to do anything, I have to say that in relation to certain hotels in Opatija they had already appeared, just a sentence to the end, showed up investors who wanted to buy it. So it seems to me that in terms of investment it's an incentive.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4292	Thank you. Don't go 20 seconds and that's a lot. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4293	Well, I agree with you fellow MPs that it's certainly a problem where you don't have the mechanisms, the elements of how to get one such owner to put something into office. But on the other hand, I'm going to say it again, maybe I wasn't clear enough, which makes me even more sad that we have certain abandoned lands where there was once an army that simply doesn't need it anymore. I mentioned military, former military airport near Pula but there are other former, military zones where there are therefore spatial plans that allow development, where there is interest in both domestic and foreign investors to be made there and on the other hand we see that the state is simply inert, doing nothing to put its property into operation. And it's hard to find the answer, it's hard to find an explanation, it's hard to find the reason why. So the local community has done their part of the job, it no longer has the mechanisms to put it into operation and on the other hand I repeat, instead of using that property, that the state is just putting it into function. I mean, what does the state cost? It just costs the state to call some kind of public tender and let it win the best. So it's hard to understand why it takes so long and the counterweight that the new income will mean both better income and for the state budget, for the pension fund, for the health fund, and then why not disburse this tax press, or why go to an increase in value added tax in one segment of the economy when we have the possibility of income just waiting for the state to finally make a decision and call a competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4294	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4295	Thank you, Chairman. counterpart Miletic, you probably remember in the late '80s when Yugoslavia was in the economic crisis it was said that someone must be stealing, and then whoever steals, they steal waiters. Then 30 years after these events, we have a picture where the economic crisis is persistently seeking to break over the back of the caterer as the central theme of tax reform, which therefore became unequivocal. You are definitely right that this VAT is unfair because the hospitality and tourism have already been pressured through several stages. The first stage was the increase in VAT from 10 to 13%, then the fiscalization, then we heard ZAMP, now we hear that there will be a VAT 25% and you've made a nice point that in fact there are thousands and thousands of jobs opening up in the hospitality and now the whole reform will go about in the direction that the jobs in the catering are lifted and that then jobs are opened somewhere else that we could peopleally define as turning from hollow to blank. In the end, however, something quite unpleasant can happen, which is that the number of jobs cut off will be greater than the number of jobs that will be opened. On the other hand, I'm supporting this argument of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4296	Thank you. And a response to the replica of counterpart Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4297	Well, I'm glad we agree in this segment. What I'm afraid of, so I'm going to mention again, we have short-term effects but we're going to have long-term effects. I'm afraid long-term effects will go to the expense of quality. Speaking of catering, what is there to save on? One thing will certainly be labour force, lower service quality, and we ourselves face the fact that young people are leaving our country. And the second situation will be with inputs, so input products that come into catering. I believe that the caterers will swear to take less quality import products than domestic production, which is much more quality than imports. I don't think that's a good way to go, that we're simply too small to settle for some average, but that we should strive for excess quality or excellence. Therefore, the full burden of this tax reform put on only one branch of the economy in this case of tourism and hospitality I hold that it is not a good way for tourism to have a significant share in Croatia's GDP, so just over 18%. And once again, in the short term, yes, the state budget will score, it will have benefits. In the long term, in this way we place Croatian tourism in a subordinate position compared to our competing countries, and I am not sure that in this way we will read the announcements of a number of relevant magazines about how Croatia is the world's most tourist destination or some other commendation on the account of our tourism. Because the only correct long-term path is just to invest in the quality that we question in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4298	Thank you. We're continuing the club debates. SDP advocates' club and distinguished colleague Siniša Hajdas Doncic. Here you go. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Tax reform, but before focusing on tax reform, we need to know that every person faces an economy and an economy in his daily life. And in fact, the economy to the greatest extent determines the quality and way of our lives or ours. In the economic system, economic categories, laws and processes work and their relationship is very complex. And knowledge of this relationship enables quality life and business decisions. That's why you need economic thinking about the reality of what I don't see in tax reform from Mr. Plenkovic and Mr. Petrov. Can I ask why all this is necessary? First of all, it helps us to understand the world we live in, enables us to be better economic actors and to understand economic policies better. So all that's going through this tax reform doesn't understand. We have further methods and a series of procedures used to explore economic reality, explore the behaviour of sets of economic variables and determine their movements and interdependence, therefore through economic models that have been simplified for you from the Ministry of Finance and an idealized picture of the situation being analysed. And that's actually your tax reform that you concentrate only on the essential features of the phenomenon while the rest of you ignore. For you, economic logic itself is a complex set of activities. Therefore, I will assess the economic reality judgments of your decisions from a certain ethical position, and therefore I only know this time, Mr Marić, that because of the difference in the validity of alternative positive theories, we will never agree on how the world works. I'll also remind you that... In 2009, she won the Nobel Prize and, in fact, her case on public and private goods can be indicative of you. For example, a dam in Nepal where the local population had long successfully managed the irrigation system, and then the government decided to build a modern steel and concrete dam funded by foreign donors. The project failed because the new dam eliminated the communication and connection of users to each other. Because maintaining exactly such small dams requires cooperation, decision-making, arrangements, the implementation of the planned all that is in fact that your tax reform did not exist and what was most visible about the lack of discussion, the arrangements through raising VAT for tourism and hospitality without a plan, so without agreement, without adopting new regulations regularly through public debate. It's actually your first and first economic sin for me. So through the lack of public involvement, not just expert groups and rapid impact assessments, so without an impact assessment, so without an impact assessment, which is also the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You'll probably assess the effects in 2, 3 years. Furthermore, if you remember that Plato still mentioned that no one should earn more than a fivefold salary ratio and you do not, through this tax reform, touch the minimum wage height and I will remind you that it is 38% of the average salary. This probably brings you closer to maybe Trump's 400-1 model in the pay range, which is actually a real neoliberal policy, an economic neoliberal policy. What a reflection this will have on Croatian society, therefore certainly not good for people who participate in the creative economy, the economy of services, who are aware and who fight against growing inequality, for people who want a decent and dignified life, for people who work in public services, administration, education, health services and the most for those who work in the processing industry so that they remain on this minimum wage. The second and perhaps most significant part that will be secondary to one blow through the propagation of your tax neoliberal economic policies and that is summed up in actually two words that become mantra of the official Croatian political scene, so these are, of course, reforms that I do not forget, and after that are an economic transition. And precisely the consequence of the transition is an economical weak state which is then being prepared for school and health vouchers because I personally believe that because of budget gaps in 2017, 2018 you will not be able to finance. Because it is actually this secondary effect or rather the long-term effect of your tax reform that, through changes to these fifteen tax laws in the coming years, actually quietly enable the privatisation of health and education as the most valuable Croatian public goods in these areas. And that is for me your second or perhaps biggest economic sin of this tax reform. And how can I continue to call your announcements that you have not prepared the Law on the financing of units of local, regional self-government as a compensatory measure and that cities and municipalities will imagine getting money from the budget by direct transfer. It's just my question of what principle, and what kind of tax reform is it that takes 2 billion kunas to locals, what kind of transfers are these? Because where HDZ municipalities and cities get the most and those who will raise their hands for the budget and the rest of nothing else, or you will put it all together for 2018 and 2017, who lives who lives dead by destroying such a social and communal infrastructure, so kindergarten, local roads, cemetery. So I didn't see your proposal and we're talking about what happened. full reform. Why don't you just give the pensioners 2 billion kuna directly from the transfer budget? So that's for me your third economics call it sin. The abolition of the tax USKOK is a permanent topic, so as I recall it started in April of this year, so the same finance minister is the only other HDZ president. Instead of overseeing the tax from the central place which is the step above and which is in fact a small and tax fear and the tax authorities that drive the tax authority to work better and responsibility you are trying to drown in the tax code under this proposal. The question is whether it was paying back to the financiers from the campaign either from this one, or from the previous one. That way Dinamo will probably be the champion again, and that's actually your fourth sin. And what I also notice in tax reform is so-called. Credibility, same as your app, but as one big claus that became a nymbus very fast. So the real blackness that started during the pre-election campaign in 2014 and continued in 2016. It's been 12 years and the Prime Minister as one of his predecessors of the same attitude, the same fineness of the so-called. The European actor is the same, so everything is similar and yet what you do to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and you will actually get them well. It's actually your political responsibility. I hope for a few years and a third time they won't believe your fairy tales because the announcement for 2017 and 2018 is the same VAT rate. This is truly credible and also a good basis for explaining the word credibility or credibility. So you have Anic, Klaic, a housekeeper who will have a lot of work to also add that new word to the dictionary. So I think it's your fifth economic sin. Ministers of Finance so you're a real lobbyist of large capital and corporations, instead of solving private debt of citizens as the greatest evil of the 21st century, you're helping only great ones. The final question is Article 12. A profit tax law where you only give banks the possibility of a one-time recognition of bad placements. Why isn't that worth it to other creditors? Are you afraid you won't be able to control them? Why isn't it worth it for HEP or some other public firm? What's that amount? Bad bills in bank balances, so they're a few, actually they're tens of billions of kunas, so the effects and risks on the budget are multiple. There's no way you're gonna write it off. And who's going to control and sanction the intentional ill-placed banks where there's a lot of unselected credit approval? How much does a budget cost, so through some of your sixth economic sin? What can I say about VAT? What is known is that you suggest reducing VAT rates to individual products and services from 25% to 13%. Therefore, the supply of electricity to other suppliers and end-users, public service for the collection of mixed municipal waste, municipal waste and separate collection of waste according to specific regulations, urn and lass and child seats for cars and inputs in agricultural production. And you will increase the VAT rate to individual products and services from 13% to 25%, so above all on catering and sugar services, and in 2018 you are increasing the threshold for entering the VAT system to 300,000 kuna and will allow a deduction of 50% of the pretax for the purchase and hire of personal cars and other means of transport of which the value does not exceed 400000 kuna. What exactly are the fiscal effects on the budget? So, according to our calculations, a total reduction in the rate from 25 to 13, means where electricity is involved, waste of garbage, inputs in agriculture that are actually difficult to assess what these inputs are about a billion and a half kuna, and an increase in the rate from 13 to 25 is about 950 million kuna, which actually speaks of some half a billion kuna of total effect in 2017. And if we add the fiscal effect of the change in 2018, so that's where we climb to an additional 650 million kuna. Why am I saying that? Because we believe that significant changes should not be made in the VAT system at this time because it is the most important budgetary revenue. It is precisely because of the government's commitments over the next year, and yet until economic growth becomes stable that any significant change in the VAT system is not desirable. From the point of view of the state budget, these changes are very important, while from the consumer's point of view they are insignificant and will likely result in extra income from traders themselves. The only justified reduction in VAT rates is in the case of inputs in agriculture, children's seats, and funeral equipment. Maybe you could think about what happened. traditional crafts, i.e. products of traditional crafts. In fact, the reduction in VAT in the last two cases is negligible at budget level, and since the sale of funeral equipment is likely to deal with mostly small craftsmen, this will certainly make their business easier. The reduction of VAT on the supply of electricity may also be important, of course, if the price will decrease by VAT, which I think is very questionable. It is also true for the transport of garbage and local problems to say "communal companies". A provision that allows 50% of the pretax to purchase or rent private cars whose value does not exceed 400,000 kuna would point out that the calculation was made according to our estimate somewhere in the purchase plan of 25000 new cars, with an estimate of the value of the purchased cars around 200000 kuna, which means that if the value of the car or the total quantity is greater this part of the half-billion budget definitely increases. And to conclude, in fact, that the changes planned under VAT in 2017 should have a negative effect, as I said on the budget of half a billion kuna. However, here you need very much to see what are actually all inputs, which will be inputs in agricultural production. A further discharge in 2018 will cost an additional 650 million kuna. What exactly was the SDP proposal? We are aware that the 25% rate is among the highest in Europe, in the EU and that it is still the most significant revenue of the state budget. In the short term, the only requirement that should be implemented we can even call the procedure was actually to reduce the inputs in agriculture or for certain agricultural products, which are primarily potatoes, eggs, onions, salads, mandarins and fish. So, what I will say in most products in Croatia, which means that VAT should be reduced from 25% to 13%, because we believe that only reducing VAT rates through agricultural inputs will not bring significant benefits to farmers but should be done in the form of placing on the market since, of course, import products that come into large trade chains whether they will be more priced than domestic production. Our proposal, therefore, on changes in VAT rates from 25% to 13% would likely reduce budget revenues by around 200 million kuna and make it easier for the country, i.e. the central state carried from 2017 and 2018 which will be Turbulent. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits Act, so here we have a reduction rate from 20% to 12% for farmers, craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. However, as I have stated, domestic farmers do not have any market for their products and no reduction in profit tax will make it significantly better, and a reduction in the profit tax rate from 20 to 18% cannot trigger a more serious investment cycle or foreign investment. The impact on the budget revenues according to the proposed model of amending the Tax on Profits Act would therefore be around 400 million kuna per year if the potential growth of income from profit tax was included due to the growth of profits for businesses during 2016. But it could therefore be compensated for the relief for reinvested profits, and in the second year it could even have a positive impact on the 200 million kuna budget according to the new reform. That's the facts. The Real estate tax law, therefore, has indicated that the objective is to revive the real estate market, and to simplify the tax and tax burden reduction process. It is good that in the proposal for a new law on real estate, therefore the tax application will no longer have to be reported by taxpayers but will be delivered through the competent authorities, so there were notebooks, any courts, and no traffic-free procedure will be conducted. But generally what's wrong, which is that there are no more reliefs for young people who first buy their real estate. And we also know that only that removal of the first real estate relief does not generally contribute to your announcement of a total reduction in tax burden. In the explanation of the proposal, you say that the elimination of the relief will be compensated by a smaller rate of 5 to 4% which does not actually stand, because the lower rate is for all traffic, not just for those who buy the first real estate. It will also compensate for the reduction of the income of local self-government units due to a reduction in the rate of real estate tax, contrary to your previous argument in the Real Estate Tax Act. The draft law also again seeks to introduce a complaint declaring the solution made in the investigation procedure and does not delay the enforcement. This Regulation was previously repealed precisely because of the legal certainty of taxpayers. According to our calculation, the total amount of income and taxes collected in 2015 825 million kuna at the level of the general government... million kuna collected on various state budgets 650 million at the level of local self-government, which means if you reduce this tax by one percentage point of loss of income at the general state level is about 175 million kuna, which also means that due to the elimination of the first real estate relief, about 100 million kunas can be expected to increase budget revenues, and in fact the total budget loss is around 75 million kuna. Also, if you say you will leave this tax entirely to local units, their reduction from 5% to 4% will be compensated, but I'm telling you, Croatia is not the same. So some regions will be winners, some regions will be losers, and some will remain the same as before. Also in the Law on Local Taxes, the inheritance and gift rate is reduced from 5% to 4, and since the rate itself is reduced from 5 to 4 the tax on the company or to the name is abolished. The budget of local units is expected to be reduced to about 120 million kuna. Also, although you have announced you are actually introducing a property tax, although let's be honest he is transforming the municipal tax into tax, but other than communal tax by this tax will be replaced by paying taxes on holiday homes and monumental rents, so you actually cancel the holiday tax and it should all be collected through real estate tax through different rates of purpose as well as for the monumental rent. This changes income distribution, so it becomes the total income of local units, which will increase revenue by 10 million but you will again reduce the income of the state budget. The local tax law provides for tax on road motor vehicles, which actually changes more or less, except that units of regional self-government will no longer receive that tax in the 7th or 8th month but will receive it succesively during the year in carrying out a technical examination, which means that it may now increase depending on where in Croatia the efficiency is charged, but will not affect the increase in income of regional self-government units. I could also conclude, in fact, that by calculating some fiscal impact of tax reform in 2017 is about $3.7 billion at the level of the general government, with the loss of the general government being all together to sum up about a billion and 700 million kuna, and the loss of local units of around 2 billion kuna, which will be very difficult to keep 2% of the deficits that are 7.5, 8 billion kuna, total of this if not... another set of called laws. In 2018, there should be no loss on the general government's budget, but the state budget will lose because of that first mentioned around 450 million kuna. Now, for your real reach on your tax fiscal reforms, we will wait and see what your draft budget will be like for 2017 which will be so very challenging. We'll see how you solve the so-called. transfers to local administration and self-government units, we'll see what your attitude towards public sector wages will be because of the signing of a contract of a few years and how you'll treat pensioners. It will be very interesting and very challenging for us rather than for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4300	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdash Doncic, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first came to the line, a distinguished colleague, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4301	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Heidash Doncic. I answered the line when you mentioned that you didn't know what local self-government was expecting when these laws were amended. I would like to take you back a few years when you were a minister and remind you that at that very time not that we didn't know, but we knew very clearly that we were expected by the minuses and the loss of money as we have heard clearly that a certain alignment awaits us and in that second part that we are essentially going in a completely different positive direction. But I'm going to go back a little bit to one more detail from that time when you, as Minister of Transport, made your decision to the Minister of County Road Administrations 400 million kuna, so by one stroke of feathers, to distribute that money without the right rules and criteria. You can easily see where the money went, and then you brought another regulation, a feature where you took another 100 million kuna to the County Road Administrations. So your term as minister resulted in the taking of 500 million kuna to the County Road Administrations. Is this Mr. Hajdash Doncic also a local and regional self-government, is that the same money that can be treated in total as money needed to save lives in those areas, so now I find it really strange when you talk about it like this today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4302	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrga. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4303	Thank you very much. So you just forgot one fact that at the time, although we're not quite getting into some discussions right now, also Croatian roads have raised credit to 400 million kunas for sharing the County Road Administrations. ... Ha, but 400 million kuna is divided. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm talking now. Don't be mad. On the other hand, perhaps the current Minister of Transport will continue one reform, and believe me, for Croatia which has 4 million inhabitants that three levels of road traffic, highways, state roads and County Road Administration are too much and the County Road Administration should actually be attached to Croatian roads. Then you have one control system, you have, like, road 1st, 2nd and 3rd levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4304	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdash-Doncic for his reply to the replica. Next up for the replica came an esteemed colleague, Blaženko Boban, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4305	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hajdash Doncic, that these last eight minutes of your debate have indeed been constructive, whether I agree with part of the debate or not, but it is very constructively related to certain proposals. Of course, I can't agree with the local administration. And here's my colleague Hrg took away a piece of the replica, but I'll tell you and direct you, consult with fellow mayors who are members of the Association of Croatian Cities, so the Association of Cities. I'll tell you, Hanzek, Obersnel, they were present when and when this tax reform was presented, and it's clear to them how this will apply to the local administration. One of the more constructive discussions was through replica, counterparts Taritas related to the communal compensation for which you did not fully understand what was most important in it, which is that it is no longer in the system of fiscal responsibility, i.e. in the system of carrying out fiscal responsibility, an imposition that is not set for concrete events. So it becomes a tax part which is very important, almost all local administrations in Croatia. I'm going to say, I'm going to use the last 40 seconds of the debate, those first 12 minutes of yours, you've expressed the surprise that this people don't recognize, so here for the third time gives us the legitimacy of government, simply, I'll tell you how. Because you do not have the courage to make any decisions, even if some of them are wrong. Once a colleague of yours, a party colleague, or I told the head of the municipality of one in my area 100 times you're a quality person, but it's a problem when your wife sends you to throw the trash home and God forbid there are three containers, you're gonna bring it back to the house because you're not sure which container you're gonna throw it in. Man, make decisions, 10 decisions, so let's make two, and they're not right, but there'll be 7 or 8 quality ones. Now that's your problem, and that's why the citizens recognized it, not only the 3rd time, but also the 4th and 5th and 7th times these citizens of the Republic of Croatia will trust us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4306	I thank my esteemed colleague, Blazen Boban, for the replica. ... Next to the replica, or I apologize, the next to the replica appeared a distinguished colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash, here you are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4307	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Hajdaš-Dončić, you mentioned in your presentation about reliefs, i.e. releases, i.e. the topic which is in the light of all these laws that there are too many reliefs and releases and... and miracles that reduced that number were decided that when it comes to sales tax on real estate that the first real estate was no longer in that group of reliefs but that the first real estate tax of 4% was paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About a year's level is 250 thousand applications, it says in the reasoning of the law and half of it is a release. This is about, therefore, young families who first buy real estate quite a big deal and something that proved to be extremely good. In terms of demographics and demographic reconstruction of this country, demographic reconstruction does not only apply to one-off measures but also to the whole system of measures related to maternity leave and public services, kindergartens and schools, which are certainly related to real estate. So I have to admit that this government has declared itself a democracy, we even have a ministry that we have in our name a demography to show that the first law we've got is not so, we've decided that we don't have the release of the first real estate. For example, 600 thousand kuna apartment, tax will be 24 thousand kuna, 600 thousand kuna, so I'm talking about the city of Zagreb, sorry, no, it's an apartment of 60 square meters, 24 thousand kuna is a tax, so most of the apartment can be equipped with. And I'm afraid this message from that law is not good or absolutely against what we advocate for demographics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4308	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Ankri Dark-Taritash, on the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4309	Mrs. Mrak-Taritash therefore excellently noticed this and the total loss for the state budget is only 100 million kuna, so we call on the Minister of Finance to think about it because this whole so to say set or online different reliefs and different inputs which are therefore meant to be reduced I think these additional 100 million kunas will mean nothing in the budget which, by 100 million kuna, increases the budget revenue actually at the expense of this one measure from reducing 5 to 4% respectively. precisely because of the inadmissible work of the first real estate so for young families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4310	I thank my distinguished colleague, Hajdash Doncic, for his reply to the replica, and with this, we have exhausted all the replicas after this debate. We're moving on to the next debate on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club. The debate will be shared by distinguished counterpart Ivan Vilibor Sinčić and distinguished colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4311	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that today at the Bureau meeting of Parliament, I was against the unification of these 15 laws in a single debate. I was at least up for it to be made in a few cycles because this is how we're forced in 10, 15 minutes, 20, to talk about all 15 laws that turn out some kind of minute by law. But let's talk about it for three days, and we'll split the subject. I would first of all like to look back at the history of VAT in Croatia, the period since the introduction of VAT in '98, '99. the year, who looked at the statistics could clearly conclude that VAT was introduced thoughtlessly at the time, without real analysis say experts say we even puzzle 22%, there will be 22%, immediately post-GDP failure, a series of negative indicators that have long weakened the Croatian economy. That 22% remained long, long before the crisis hit in 2008 and since then I have witnessed an increase to 23 and to 25% today. That, and who has read all 15 bill proposals on each of those points, the description of the situation is said to actually complain about 2012 to 2015 44 times the tax laws have changed. In Croatia, it is bad that we constantly change tax laws, which brings uncertainty, prevents investors. So what do we do now? We're giving 15 more amendments to the tax code. The minister announced 16, and there will be more next year. And if we were looking at chronologically by 2000, we'd be going over 100 of these changes. The point of all this is to say that we don't know what our economic policy is. Let's pick our goals and focus on fishing, high technology, agriculture, and we'll stimulate these branches. We can't stimulate all the branches. My county, Karlovac County, can't deal with fishing when it's not at sea, there's only freshwater fishing. It is similar with the Republic of Croatia, but we do not have strategies, we have no visions, any authority that comes up with something rash, honors without a clear goal what to do and how to do. Here's a general review of this reform, we're against this general way of thinking and this whole concept. Giving more money to those who have it and who have the highest salary which now we'll get 1,000, 1500 kuna on our salary, we probably won't spend it in the store, with our salaries we'll probably leave it on the bill, invest, someone put it on savings. You can see on the property cards how much money we have on our savings. However, if the reform was made in the direction that the money remained the poorest citizens with the lowest incomes, the money would surely go into consumption. Because the one who's got three thousand kunas if he gets something on it will definitely spend it in some kind of store. And not only would that trigger the economy, but it would facilitate the position of a large family. So let's remember statistics on how many people in Croatia have up to 3,000 kuna income, about 1 million and 200 thousand inhabitants of Croatia. We're a poor country and then go in this direction it's pointless and we're against it. Furthermore, the elimination of tax relief on the first real estate, the analysis here states that 115 million kuna will, because when tax expenditures have a release, etc. 115 million kuna will now be transferred to these young families. You're buying the first property 4%, it's a couple of tens of thousands of kunas at once for someone who's just stalking, who wants to do something. It's a terrible blow for most of those people, and I'm not surprised because a good part of my generation went to Germany, Ireland and so on. The introduction of real estate taxes through this simple tax announcement. Generally, the Living Wall is against new taxes. Our people are too burdened. We have the second largest VAT rate in Europe. Hungary has 27%. And now more real estate tax. With the income we have, with the incomes that many of our citizens have won't be able to pay that tax. According to the current proposal, he does not enter the poorest, but I have watched for years how many human executive laws before the crisis and what happened as they went down, increasingly cruel, increasingly perverse that today would come in no longer be able to repeat the anthological code for a few hundred to lose a few hundred, God a few thousand kunas. Once we go that way, I'm afraid there won't be a return and we're against even introducing such a tax into a country that has 31.5 billion euros in real estate in its possession. Furthermore, it is said in the media, referring to the fiscal policy objectives in 2017, it is likely by the minister that the goal is to lower the budget deficit to 2% of GDP to get out of the excessive deficit and improve credit rating. Say then, look, the goal is to introduce the euro, we have to reduce the deficit so much in GDP, so much to reduce debt in GDP, that's the goal, and to that end, we're going to sacrifice everything, we're going to take it to young families, we're going to take it all to the hosts to achieve that goal. Let me know if that's the point. Don't cover it up. Because this reminds me very much of those things from... contracts that are conditions for entry into the euro. Let me know if that's the case. I'm going back to the production issue. The most mentioned here is therefore, in the VAT law, the reduction of the re-promaterial tax. Okay, but I must remind you that the Republic of Croatia has therefore a deficit of 1.2 billion dollars a year in the external trade of agricultural products. As I said in the replica of the country we competed with in agricultural production, which are large exporters have a 5% to 20% lower VAT and for years, some decades. We've lost a lot of time. Here is Ireland, said 4.8 to 13.5, Italy for something 4 for something 10, Cyprus 5, Hungary for livestock 5% VAT. And who has the least tax? It's the countries from which we import the most agricultural products. So if there's anything good about this whole reform, it's going to make it easier for farmers. That's what I stood for in the campaign. Reduce taxes on re-promaterials or on food as well. It's something you should definitely do and go into tax discharge. But this way it's done, we don't have insurance, we don't have guarantees that this money, that difference will remain a consumer. I gave that example with the kid's seat and 480,000 kuna. Is there any guarantee that it will remain a parent as I ask if there is any guarantee that it will remain here for the farmer's manufacturer or that some dealer resells it. So there's no clear control of these mechanisms. It's also under one big, big questionnaire. The question arises why are agricultural reliefs introduced right now. There are big bosses in Croatia, farmers, especially one boss for whom here these days is not in a good situation. Almost all the banks with all these companies came to the top. No one's giving him any more credit. So I see one link because he spends a lot of repromation, that right now it's for him to make it easier for him to do business to cut his costs because the boss can't fail. And they write off a 45-billion-dollar loan, so if I'm not mistaken, two-thirds is on the firm. The question arises, and we know for what year, in which year such processes will take place next year, the question is how much such bosses will be forgiven, whether the measure is again invented for them to be bought, to buy them some more time. That'll show time. What also intrigues me is one reverse process of reforming. If reforms are the result of any policy, then they are the result of political will. What does that mean? That the first ruling majority, coalition parties agree on politics, the expert team, therefore the teams, the ministries elaborated it and the process afterwards was confirmed in the Assembly, etc. We had a reverse process here. That strategy came from somewhere. Then they gave a few inscriptions to the public, then to the prime minister, then to the government, then there was a conflict in the coalition, so it was shown that we were going to make amendments, that there was some dissatisfaction rather than that it was agreed before. So the reverse process of reform is. So I don't know how much that's due to political will. It certainly is not part of what was announced before the elections, that the VAT will be reduced as much as and as much annually, so I do not believe this reform. A lot could also be said about the reconstruction of institutions. About that more tomorrow in an individual debate. I leave the word to my colleague now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4312	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. Continuing this debate on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4313	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. So, to put it briefly. This tax reform has been missed. It starts from the assumption that the current model of the economy is good, that the system that we now have is good, that everything we need to do is one service, one remont, stick a pair of Band-Aids to a wounded body, and after that we will have no problem continuing in the bright future. However, the situation is such that these tax measures, especially in this form in which they are proposed, will not solve anything at all. Croatia will continue to be in debt, and it is only a matter of time and not too long before we get back into the situation that the economy is in recession. And then a question will be asked which must inevitably come in a model of economics. How will wages be paid, how will pensions be paid? Minister Maric took the wrong path completely, because among other things, I take it as one of the greatest sins he has ever committed, so I raise the wages to those who have. He set out to compensate banks, raise the salaries of INA administrations, HBOR, CNB, politicians, local officials. And in any form whatsoever, he did not raise the salaries of the people who work for the minimumer or for the average salaries and who today represent, unfortunately, the social category. If Minister Maric had increased, for example, the minimumer so came with this tax reform, it would have looked much better. If Minister Maric had increased the minimumer he would have already today, if he had increased it by 1,000 kuna largely stopped the evictions and it would have been a better measure than these I don't know the reductions in VAT to urns or nuclear reactors we've read now in the bill of law. Because people move out not because they don't have a job, but primarily because with wages they can't guarantee a decent existence to themselves and to their families. They're not unemployed, they're people who work for too little pay. And you, of course, have very good experience from Agrokor, for example. But you didn't do anything. You think a father, a mother with 2495 kuna and I don't know two children can survive the month, that he has time to wait for the PBZ administration to settle first. He won't, he'll go to Germany because he can't last another day, let alone two years or as long as you've imagined. You try it. Here I give you 2495 kunas, schedule for a month, enroll two kids in school. Did you know that the "Golden Days" dictionary costs 290 kuna for the first grade of primary school. So what do these workers do now? That he chooses whether to pay for the electricity or buy the dictionary? Will he eat or will he pay for I don't know how to heat? He can't do both, he doesn't have either. And then they eat, and they don't pay for the directorship, and then their performances come to them, and the blockades come to them, and you never saw it. You live in abundance, you wear a watch worth 20 minimum salaries and you don't have feelings for people who work bloody and hard and pay all the contributions in the budget. On that side, your tax reform is, therefore, repeated, unacceptable, missed. You had to go from bottom to top, not top to bottom as a responsible politician and minister. The other thing you missed was you started emptying the budget instead of filling it. So you decided to cut out two billion budget revenues with this tax reform. And where will you make it up to them? You will increase the deficit and then you will re-indebt Croatia. You'll issue vault records, you'll issue bonds, you'll raise a loan and you'll claim that now here's a citizen better alive than they've ever lived before. You could've done it. You could've, for example. Mr. Lackovic said, to raise the mining rent that is among the lowest in Europe, that is where we lose two billion a year. You could have contained the gray economy. You know very well what a gray economy is, where Croatia is a recorder in Europe, from us it is worse only Bulgaria, but you have no courage. What does it mean for a worker who gets paid, a new tax plate, what does he get with it? What does it mean to a storekeeper whose boss gives a thousand kunas to his hands, now is VAT 13, 15 and income tax he always gets a thousand kunas whatever it is? Why didn't you start taxing bank extra profits instead of making up for their toxic loans and illegal interest? That would be a real reform. But of course you don't dare object because you depend on these people, you depend on them personally. What will they tell you, where you will return tomorrow, how you will personally achieve your career. You could, given that currently in Croatia, deflator movements have prompted the CNB to finally carry out the primary emissions of kuna and that these movements are somewhat aligned. The course would not have happened much, and you would have had fresh money at your disposal that you could invest in the economy and raise it by a far higher rate of GDP than these 0.3 you are now planning if you pass tax reform. You could, and you couldn't, have done something to unblock the twists, to unblock the OPGs, to unblock the citizens' accounts, and that would be a very strong economic measure for you, because people would finally start living and doing things, and it would certainly affect budget revenues. You could've increased control of the budget, you could've fought against tax evasion, you could've fought corruption. It is worth billions from Croatia, and this tax reform of yours when it is carefully read, I repeat, when careful reading leaves the impression that it actually pleases not only speculators but all sorts of tax havens and scammers. I don't have time to elaborate on this right now, but I've applied for an individual debate, and I'd be happy to explain to you, if you're still here, on concrete examples where it's clearly seen. Therefore, I personally, and I trust my colleagues, for this tax reform of yours in this form, be assured we will not vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4314	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Sinčić, you and your colleague on behalf of the club, have actually said that this tax reform protects only one group, which is rich citizens, extremely wealthy citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and goes to the detriment of poor, young families, entrepreneurs in tourism, but one part of you have skipped to which I will specifically look at, and these are municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia or local self-government units. In this replica, I was encouraged by a report from the home Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government where ministers can listen and you listen to me if you have more concentrations, where changes to the Income Tax Act are said to reduce budget revenues by 1.5 billion kuna plus 123 billion kuna to the abolition of the tax on the company. You, of course, as well as all future governments in 2010 and 2015 offer us the leaders of the local self-government unit compensatory measures. If these compensatory measures don't come to light, I'm just asking you a question, what's going to happen to local taxes? Will the local self-government units be able to close their financial year?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4316	I thank my esteemed colleague, Clarina, for this replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4317	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is a colleague, although the extensive topic is not even possible to mention, but as soon as you read the name of the law, you go 10 seconds from the minute you have the law, the problem of damaging the budget of local self-government units is extremely important. A few years ago, there was a different tax, income tax reform, and then there was also a hole in the budgets of many cities and municipalities, and this rag was being paid by cutting people's wages, by firing people, by raising the war, i.e. in kindergartens, by raising municipal fees or in various other ways, but as anyone could. I think that one of Croatia's main problems is excessive centralisedness, this country must not come to Zagreb or Zagreb and several major cities while so many and so many rural parts of our country from the island to the village simply disappear and die out and it is questionable who will remain there for a few years and if no one stays, the question is who will want to return there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4318	I thank my esteemed colleague Sincic for his reply to the replica. The next call came from an esteemed colleague of professors. Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, you said that our citizens are not leaving because they have no business with us but because they are small profits. They're leaving for the first, they're leaving for another reason, but they're leaving mostly because of their imperceptibility. For years they had low wages, they had been waiting for employment but faced the absence of perspective, with the absence of a regulated state. And what we're discussing today is some kind of contribution to opening a perspective like that. As for your remarks regarding the extra profits of banks, I would like to discuss this and your contribution to this debate is welcome as would be a good contribution and debate to see if we can start discussing interest and interest taxes that are huge. And how and in what way there... the position that citizens have in our banking system, how to run it, whether this system will decide or should be stimulated in another way, I don't know, of course, but it should be discussed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to get back to the beginning, imperceptibility is the biggest problem that other than the possibility of people going somewhere else, what makes people move to move out of our country. And the opening of this debate on tax reform is, at the same time, the beginning of a debate on opening a perspective, it itself will not be enough unless other mechanisms are launched. One of these mechanisms will come to debate, what you encourage, but when we have political capacity because we as a country and our government still don't have that kind of debate. We as advocates have an obligation to run it but expect the government to do it now is unfortunately unrealistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4320	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pupovac, for the replica. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4321	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Pupovac, of course they are moving in part because of unemployment, but it is indisputable that Croatia today has almost no occupations. So certain occupations, I don't know, like welders or machine tools or, say, drivers go out mass even though Croatia needs these personnel. And what's most interesting is that they've even been paid relatively well, so not for the minimumer, but there's an incomparable amount of money out there, of course there's... And other professions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Inspectivity, that's usually a good word, a good term, I agree with him, and what you mentioned about interest, of course a significant reform should be carried out there too, here the minister listens and we have spoken in recent weeks, so HBOR's interest rates are definitely too high, unwarrantedly high, they should be reduced for the economy's incentives and it would also not be bad at all, but it's already high time to consider reducing the tight interest. So tight interest is also far too high and they also choke citizens in private, both in business and in the system of performance and blockades, and there it could definitely achieve much more, parallelly with such procedures as the tax reform that was said to in itself, so in 2017 and 2018, I get such an impression that it is actually enough, that it is sufficient measure and it is not. So it will be seen, we will not wait long for Croatia to lose this momentum very quickly for which it is not due, let's say, honestly, but it is due to a shift in the economy in the environment and a fall in oil prices, very soon it will lose this economic swing and then it will be seen that we have lost unnecessary time again and the debt will be growing and bigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4322	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, for his reply to the replica. With this, we've exhausted the replicas in this debate. Next, an important colleague, Vesna Pusic, a respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, and a respected colleague, Goran Beus-Richembergh, applied for the debate on behalf of the Croatian National Club of Representatives. Here you go, Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4323	Mr. President, gentlemen and ladies of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS and HSU club was one of those who advocated that we conduct this debate not unitedly but according to each of the 15 laws. We felt that since we are spending a day, two, discussing reports from different agencies for 2014 that this package of laws, however anyone assessed it with more or less full reform, is indeed a serious attempt that we appreciate to stabilise the overall arrangement, the fiscal arrangement of Croatia and that it deserves absolutely to be discussed individually. Some of us feel that they are absolutely acceptable, for some we believe that one or two amendments can be significantly improved and made consistent and acceptable, perhaps for some we think are missed. And that's why we feel disabled to discuss it in a united package, and that's why a colleague and colleague will say something else about the topics they've been preparing for, because everyone has really looked at these laws realistically, not in a classical position, opposition to the relationship. We'll be against it because we're in opposition. Because like I said, we really think it's a good try and we need to go that way and there's a lot of things that can be fixed here. Many of them are mentioned, especially intensities we find important. If there was something universal to us, and what we tried to deal with for years, torture in different governments was instability, tax policy instability, and all the time changing tax laws. And if we can get into a situation where we can gradually improve the situation but basically stabilise what they are taxes we'll take a good and important step. To do this, we really need to make an effort to fix some of these things that are proposed here so that they can be the basis for this stability. There are conceptual illogicalities in what has been proposed, many are mentioned, I will only briefly specify some so colleague Mrak-Taritash and colleague Beus Richembergh will talk about it further. We're talking about a proactive demographic policy, we're proposing to abolish the relief of buying the first real estate. It's in direct conflict with each other. We are talking about decentralisation, there is no clear and defined, with defined criteria of law or measures that would otherwise compensate one in our opinion a good measure of local self-government. So the measure spurred consumption when the first border was raised where income is taxed. Perhaps clumsyly, perhaps not well enough were then introduced those criteria of development based on which something compensated but some clear criteria must exist. So if local self-government is reduced in this way, direct income must have some criteria that will give it original income not by the mercy of the central state, but by the original income in order to make it work. Because otherwise decentralisation is just an empty word. We've defined strategic industries, among other things pharmaceuticals, IT industry, mesatrating industry as strategic. You can't see that from this tax policy. We stood on our feet as far as tourism is concerned. That's where we make some moves that try to stop that branch from growing. Is there any other compensatory measures? There's a possibility and you're proposed. If VAT is held at this level, there are other options for this tourism to compensate. But there's no suggestion here. Not to say that for one activity that is not mentioned here at all, which taxes are important, which is science, education and scientific research. There's no talking about it, and that's the people of our economy, that's our development, that's the only real resource we have in the long run. And these elements are something that colleagues will talk about in the next debate and tomorrow, but which they thought should certainly be taken into account, and we will try to propose them to the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4324	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesni Pusic. Continued debate, distinguished colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As my colleague Pusic said, this is a package in which a lot of different topics have been reduced to one syntax tax reform, but we fear that this has neither the courage nor the consistency of tax reform, but that it is actually a set of amendments and additions to laws that apply primarily to the fiscus but that they do not still have the weight of tax reform. What's this about? In order for a procedure like this to have the character of tax reform, we need to know what we want to achieve with it. I assume that the proposer comes from the fact that the main objective is to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, that this is GDP growth and that employment is to increase. If so, we must see what has already been written in strategic documents on the basis of common sense by several hundred or thousands of people, which can lead right to these goals. We have been told the Tourism Development Strategy, which is valid until 2020, says that VAT levels will not increase in tourism and catering activities. This proposal is against it. Secondly, if we know that one of the strongest GDP growth generators in the last 2 years is the growth of personal consumption, does VAT growth contribute to the growth of personal consumption and the preservation of that trend or not? We don't think so. Furthermore, if we want to be consistent then we need to know that, in addition to the example of the Tourism Development Strategy, there is a mentioned Industrial Strategy, there is also an Innovation Strategy, a Smart Specialisation Strategy. Therefore, if we have already said what branches these are, which are industries we intend to rely on to develop the state because we have comparative advantages, capacities, expertise, opportunities, niche on the market, then it is perfectly logical to expect the proponents to measure tax orientations in achieving these objectives. So, to make it easier for these sectors, to free them, to give them synergy space and to do what we expect about strategic documents. So, their growth, development, increase our own competitiveness on the market. In this context, the problem is that we do not see whether the reliefs that are embodied in these proposals are in any way related to the ICT sector, for innovation, for research and development, for lifelong education, for retraining interests that are missing because we know that a large number of unemployed burdens the number of hard-working. So, is it not one of our own, one of our tasks to train hard employment and unemployed persons to change their qualifications so that they can participate in those branches, therefore the economies and industries we consider strategic and which we hold to be able to withdraw the issue of the progress of the Republic of Croatia forward over the next few years? And one more thing. Tax reform if we want to call it that must lead the country's development policy, so it must be a framework in which all state development policies will take place. It must answer the question of how to achieve competitiveness, and it is not a means to lead social policy. It is an area where it facilitates the creation of a new value, and it acquires fiscal resources that are led later on by social policy, but not directly by tax policy. In this sense, we find it correct to consider the applicant's approach to come with the first reading proposal, because the fact is, therefore, the applicants have a majority in the Croatian Parliament, they could rape the procedure and they could ask for all of this to go according to the emergency procedure in order to prepare the budget. And today, it actually goes out in two nights. It is good to hear all that we have to say, but it will be even better if until the next opportunity, which is until the second reading try to think about all these solutions and from other rakurs that you have heard, that is, in this context which is fundamental, which is to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, reduce tax burdens of work and transfer it somewhere else where there is space and where a fair distribution will be achieved. And finally let me just ask something, because it's important for our culture, and that's whether in a provision that defines differentiated rates, so the reference to books is between books and electronic books. I would remind you that the European Commissioner for Tax Policy, Mr Moskovic, recently said that it is the European Commission's policy to consider the book an electronic book. If you were to give either a direct answer or, therefore, in the final address today or if in another reading you would make that explicit when you say it would significantly facilitate the position of Croatian publishers in the future. Let us not forget that the paper is slowly converted into a digital and should not run away from it, but rather give it a chance. And now, my colleague, Mrs. Anka, will continue, Mr. Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4326	I thank my esteemed colleague, Beus-Richembergh. Continuing the debate on behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished colleague Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4327	Thank you very much. So, when it comes to tax reform, I think we should start with the objectives and the tax reform promoters have declared the following objectives. First is simplifying the system. The second is a reduction in tax rates. The third is the expansion of the tax base. Fourth reduction in tax burden. And the fifth increase in the stability of the system. I'm sure there's no one in this assembly whether they're sitting on the right, on the left, or in the center for such goals would all be defined together if that were it. But when we look at these goals, I have to admit some things we have to ask. If the objective was to simplify the system, and accordingly, a reduction in the number of tax rates is proposed in the taxation of income and value added, why is it suggested that we have two profit tax rates when taxing profits instead of one. If the objective was to reduce tax rates, then one economic branch that could absolutely affect international competitiveness was to increase. If the objective was to expand the tax base, why is it to abolish stimulating measures for reinvested profits. If the objective was set to increase the stability of the tax system for which we are all going to advocate why we are still going to this reform without a prior public debate. The colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and who were on board also spoke about how long the reform was, spoke about how much expert debate it was. We had an objection and we saw that the expert debate was taking place, but believe me when it comes to one full tax reform, and I believe that this is what we need to discuss publicly. And we cannot in any way dispute that the proposed reform will achieve certain positive effects. This primarily refers to reducing the tax burden on a large number of citizens and entrepreneurs. However, when this tax reform came before this assembly, I think more serious analysis of the impact of the proposed measures on the level of economic activity should be made. The impact assessments on consumption are partly superficial and flat-rate, and they are not investments and net exports are completely lagging behind. It's the same way that we're double-crossing the release for reinvested profits. I agree with the remarks that the current situation has been complicated and inadmissiblely selective that it should be improved we consider, but not that it should be abolished. To make things worse, it seems to us that the solution that has been proposed to tax profits is even more selective and unfair. What am I saying? The taxpayer who has an obligation and makes a lower profit, the one who pays the tax at a higher rate at 100 thousand kuna, will pay 18 thousand kuna, and his colleague who pays at a lower rate at 40% higher, will pay 16 thousand 800 kuna taxes. As my colleagues said, no matter what we're an opposition, we want to be a constructive opposition. We're not going out for this pay phone just to be against it, but to point things out. Through individual discussions, we will point to some topics that bother us further, but I really can't and can't say next, the Law on Local Taxes is something that is absolutely acceptable to us and we think that's the way it should be. Through our policies, we advocate decentralisation of work, but decentralisation and resources. So I'm asking you to reconsider the real estate tax. Equally weaving to think in our ranks sits a lot of mayors and mayors and they certainly know what I'm talking about. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Law on Local Taxes until 15.12.2017, which is within a year, needs to bring the real situation in the field into line with all the elements that should be in order to qualify for real estate tax. I think you all know exactly what I'm talking about. There it tells you that you will get three data, one information will be from the State Geodetic Administration Catastre, in Istria it will be Italian, in Dalmatia it will be Italian, in the new continental part it will be austrous, but for one 7% of the country will be as it should be. You'll get all the spatial plans that are fine. However, you will absolutely be in trouble, we must not forget one fact, 21 May next year are local elections, this in other words means that regardless of the local administration still needs to work, or regional self-government and our colleagues regardless of the choices they are. But we all know that during the election period, and while new local or regional self-government is being established, there will certainly be one break in their activity. So I think it's time to get ready now, the more the local tax law says to come into force on 1 January 2018, the more he introduces, the more I'm going to do in an individual debate, but I'm using this opportunity to once again highlight the tax on unbuilt construction land. In the Law on the Communist Economy, this obligation today was written in a way that certain municipalities and cities can decide whether to benefit or not from a municipal fee. 30% of municipalities and cities do that or benefit. With this colleague from the Ministry of Finance, they don't have to listen to us talking from this constituency, but let them listen to the Association of Municipalities and Cities because in the Association of Municipalities and Cities, they're going to hear about what they're going to hear from this pay phone. In conclusion, the HNS Club, the HSU, some of these laws will support, when they go to another reading, we will give something for another reading of the amendments, something will not be possible for us to support, but I also ask them to listen to our colleagues as we speak in favour of those five goals that we and all of us in this assembly can bet that they are okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4328	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Tarritash, for this debate. I would only ask the members of the motion that while the MPs and MPs of honor speak, I would ask for peace in your ranks. This is what we ended up with after this debate on behalf of the HNS, HSU Representatives Club. No replicas reported. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia and SNAGA's distinguished colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4329	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, with his associates, MPs and MPs. There's only a few of us left, they say the strongest are just staying, so here I am going to try not to spend all twenty minutes trying to be as sharp and clear as possible. Obviously, in the preparation of this tax reform, a lot of time has been spent and a lot of people have worked on it and we really appreciate it and we have heard the main objectives of the promoter, so all those who worked on this project to present to us today what is most important about tax reform. You see, in economic policy, and here, tax reform is expected a lot. The question is, does it really have such powers within the framework of the overall macroeconomic policy which is otherwise the key objectives, fiscal or tax policy as a narrow concept and do we all expect too much from what we got on the table? We see that the key goal is to try to raise the GDP growth rate, and here we have heard certain projections that should be in the end, that should be about 0.5.06%, so this would affect the growth of GDP in Croatia. In addition, the tax system should be stable in order to allow investors to invest, whether domestic or foreign. It should also allow for a certain justice, a fairer distribution of wealth, income, and wealth in a country. So the question arises whether this proposal has been reached. I think it's too much to call this tax reform, too ambitious because it's not that it's comprehensive but it can't have an epithet of reform because reform requires much deeper, stronger changes to achieve these objectives that I've said. Well, here's what I'm going to do for a few segments. When it comes to taxing income, about taxing income previously to say one more thing, otherwise, here you see and Trump now announces, which is his first measure, he will disburse, he will go the same way in reducing tax rates. Who? First of all, the rich layers because it's in the economy of the so-called economy. Trickle down effect that could be translated as a leak, drip. And what does that mean? Let us enable the rich to earn even more, and after that, all that they do will be poured out or bathed on those who are poor. But it's one of the last mass ideologies of our time that a significant part of people believe in, so believe even those who are at risk. So those who have weak incomes. But it seems logical to them, but we saw that it didn't happen anywhere. But I, as a scientist on behalf of the party, change Croatia we want to face arguments here, that is to say an argument, and in this way try to make a contribution how... One effort that is worthy to have a more meaningful meaning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there will be a simple understanding in approach, whether or not arguments are respected, or whether it will be a matter of ideological approach not to say voting machines. If that's the case, it won't be good. So let's start in order, when it comes to income taxation, practically two rates of 24 and 36% are proposed. And you see, when we talk about the highest salaries of over $17.5 thousand, I'd, as far as I've read, maybe the minister knows or someone else might have the highest salary I suspect there are more than 10,000 people. Ten thousand people is a small town, little town. So, everyone else will be taxed with 24%, which could be said in that case because this is marginal to have a flat tax for everyone else, million and 150, million and 200 grand... One foot. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that context, why am I saying this? You don't have to slave to some extreme simplicity of the tax system if we had 2 feet to make it extremely simple, so it would be ideal for one thing but we're obviously not a society, nor ready for it. Why is this so problematic? Because that lowest rate is 24%, it's set too high, 24%, so no more 12%, now 24% and after that 36%. I don't have time to talk about it wider because tomorrow as a party we'll change Croatia to have a press conference and we'll talk about it in more detail, such a steep progression, it's not specific for such societies and countries as Croatia, only some Scandinavian countries have such a steep progression that it immediately goes 24% to something. So, what's the taste of it? You increase the untaxable share of income, but then you raise this one after that, the tax rate is 24%, so the effects are low. So today I've been looking at a company on the example of a worker who has about $35,000, and he's got a salary increase of about 38 kuna, right? He can buy a chicken, a kilo of potatoes and a salad for the family which is not the same to underestimate but about that. Our proposal, it was supposed to leave three feet, 10, 20, 30%, it doesn't take 40% but 30%, so it means making and protecting those who have the least but also those who have the most so they don't take too much. But look in this context, let's say interest and dividends remain 12%. So what's the message, what they would now say with one rhetoric that those who are participants in the capital market have more money, so they turn out to be privileged here. In this context, the non-taxable income, it is good that it is raised from 2600 to 3800 kuna, but in the pre-election campaign we have proposed 5 thousand kuna and the damage that it is not appreciated because then the effects on consumption would be much better and greater. And of course, now the minister will say yes, but we would have a bigger budget deficit, but we have answers to that, so I'm going to say something at the end. That would have increased the untaxable share of income, or so on. A tax deduction of 5 thousand kuna would significantly raise the middle layer. Why? Because the middle layer is the belly of every economy, it spends, that highest layer, it can't eat 5 lunches or carry 3 departments, so that's, that holds every economy, holds the middle layer. The proposal for profit tax nm is okay, acceptable from 20 to 18, these up to 3 million 12, okay. Therefore, the only thing we disagree with, i.e. Taxation, meaning there is no exemption for reinvested profits, simply incomprehensible. So why is that? So we want to increase investment and here we basically tax the one who re-invests the profits. Okay, let's say here's a move that the costs of the team rise from 30 to 50% and account for the deductible item before tax. Why, because they'll be working in hospitality. It's okay, come on. When it comes to VAT rates, the intention is clearly to form two rates of 12 and 24% in the near future because you see now we have 13 and 25%. So she'd shrink by 1%. Our position of the Party Change Croatia thinks we shouldn't have two feet there either, why? We can have one rate of VAT a few steps in between. So does anyone in the EU have that? There is. How much? Three, five, and even nine steps. Because it's prescribed, forbidden? It's not. Who does it depend on? About us, gentlemen. But we need to know what VAT rates are for. And what else is tax policy and interdependence for? To stimulate what is most important to us, and then it's called politics. Because when is economic policy invented? After the great crisis of the 29th year in America. She's not, like, 140 years old. So here's when we talk about this VAT if it's in agriculture 13%, so we should let our peasants go to this re-promatter between 5 and 9% as they have competitive countries about Hungary, Austria, Slovenia, Italy and what I know. Why? It was supposed to bring down lower so let them be even or look now it's coming back, sugar will be like bread and milk after a hard fight to keep 5%, sugar will be 25%. So will we survive ours and what little sugar cane we'll see. In this context, you can see about the tax on bread and milk, let's say MOST struggled hard to avoid being a little cynical here, but I understand the political strategy, so okay but let's tell people like this, here are three types of bread 5%, but all the other types of bread gentlemen 25%. Why should I, like Ivan Lovrinović, pay 5% for some bread with these seeds, with those etc.? That's where the layers were supposed to go. So when we do here, Mr. Minister, when we do this reform, let's do it, some of those put in that layer. Because the approach if a brick pulls out to crash everything and I understand that because the simulations were made, but let's make all these changes and even if we don't get to run this year in 2017, I think we could but let's do it so we don't touch anything for 10 years anymore. So it makes sense because people wouldn't eat too much bread. The same milk. So you have yogurt supplements, these etc. Only two, three species, so that's it. The point of tax policy is therefore to protect, above all, domestic production when it comes to domestic production and preference of certain segments of the economy. There are no significant changes in the excise duty area. There are no bans in the EU, there are limits below which levels should not go, and there are no restrictions as far as they can go. Of course, no one's gonna raise any excise fees 10 times. So, and there can be some changes and I think that's what it took, we think it should have been better used. What could have happened here, let's make an argument. Food as a sin, it has that term means related to public finances in tax policy, so it could be taxed to increase that excise duty on those products that contain too much sugar, fat, cholesterol because they produce, what products? Too many sick people in the system and inflict great signs of health loss. But I'm not going to talk about it any further, so it'd be just as good if it was done. The local community, here today it was about that it would actually lose the most here and there is no clear solution. The minister is a bit, I followed him, when he responded in one replica, said all those who had so much and so much should not get under it. So I think it's okay to have that safety but that's not a clear criterion. This should be resolved clearly even though, in our opinion, the Party Change Croatia thinks this will solve real estate taxation in a year or two. So there's going to be a place to settle these revenues. If it were to remain without some clear criteria then the space of discretionism would be opened which, of course... In the academic community, the proposal to tax the author's fee, so it's no longer a bad echo, it's also the marginal items of the state budget, so if when it comes to this highest meaning category that has the highest salary to stop young ITs, then this, on this side, turns out to be that young scientists others will be detimulative to them, and therefore, in that sense, it is in a certain way contradictory to a certain extent. What I particularly disagree with and was expressed here in several speakers and we appeal to it, gentlemen, do not tax the first real estate. Well, that's profoundly contrary to the demographic policy that HDZ stands for. So the question is it declarative? Why didn't MOST stand up harder against it? Because if you take the average apartment a young man must pay 20 to 30 thousand kuna taxes, it means 4% on the first property. So wait a minute, so we're going to run a demographic recovery policy and we're practically detimizing people. So this is contradictory, or please tell me what effects on the budget will have to be abolished means taxing the change in real estate that this is so important? We deeply believe that this is a deep measure, which deeply worsens the demographic situation and politics in Croatia. These are marginal items for the budget. Please free young people from paying taxes on first real estate. You said the overall estimated impact of tax reform, reform... About 2 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see, it's a big bust, and it's a big crowd about this kind of effect. Okay. We're also a small country. I have no intention of de-mining it. It's all good if it serves something. However, how will this be dispersed when we have seen income taxation. A man who has 3 and a half, 5, 6, 7, 8000 kunas when you increase his untaxable income, so he saves 100, 200 kuna he'll spend it all. But he who has 17 and a half thousand kunas and more, so he gets 1,000 kunas left or more, he won't spend it, or he'll spend a little bit. What will be saved or played on the financial market. So the estimated effects that it means precisely because of this differentiated approach and behaviour of individual segments of participants in the economy will also be questioned about the impact of the ultimate on consumption and GDP growth rate. So this 2 billion needs to be calmed down somewhere. There's obviously a segment selected here in tourism, and that's hospitality. I think it was supposed to have access here either to everyone or not to touch anything. So it's all 25% or all 13%. If tourism has taken up 18 of us, 19% of GDP has developed the most, etc. We can talk about it. So why would strangers consume something here at a preferential rate? We can discuss this, but I think it's come down to these people. I think it was possible to do something else. However, what you haven't done, which is why we in the party "We Change Croatia" have regretted you haven't touched banks, other financial institutions, and that is why we advocate to introduce a tax on the assets of banks and financial institutions. I'm sorry that it's not even a SDP that's being declared a social democratic, or a MOST, and unfortunately for HDZ, I understand why it's not. Is there any power for the current government and most of it to do it? Not according to this. I will talk about the details of my relationship with the banks tomorrow at a press conference on behalf of the party "Let's Change Croatia", and I will explain in detail what this is about, and I will explain in particular why they want to write off claims, irrevocable claims from banks. And what's this about? This is about not being all the same in front of the law, i.e. that we will not continue to bear the burden of this crisis of extracting from the muds of economic problems and the misery of life in Croatia. Still the poor and the middle layer will wear it on their backs. Some sectors such as banks must not lose, but reduce profits, because I have a feeling that the state will fail. Gentlemen, the time has come for these things to change. Let's not forget that this nation has rescheduled banks with over 70 billion kuna. The other day I heard the terrible truth. One of the witnesses told me that even when the Bank Rehabilitation Act was written that the sentence was written that after the resolution that the banks owed the money back all the years to come. An interested group then played a key role, threw that sentence out of the law. We all paid for that recovery, and that means we still have to pay for certain failures in the banking system and everything you've done, especially in the case of francs. And in conclusion, as far as this is concerned. So a significant effort has been made to do something. I think it's going to be small effects, but what's most important is we see that they can be bigger. If there's wisdom in the debate and you don't approach... Have a good one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's something we can do. If this is the case, I don't think the increase in investment will affect at all, the growth in consumption will be thin, and therefore, especially as far as social justice is concerned, there will be little. Thank you for your tolerance, thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4330	I thank my esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4331	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Thank you, colleague Lovrinovic, for your speech. I would call this tax policy and reform a small reform. Why the squirm? Indeed, according to entrepreneurs and craftsmen, some taxes have fallen to a profit of 18 or 12%. It's not a bad thing for me personally, and some people make me pay. All this is good, but it is not enough to make the reform right and make this country go in the right direction. As far as I'm concerned, there should be one drastic reform not in the sense that they attack small, but drastic to tax and large what you just said to the people who run banks and banks that amount to billions of kunas from Croatia without taxes. This year they had a tax on some 19 billion, and for the past 20 years hundreds of billions were exported from the Croatian state and carried to their home banks. However, these little people like this, since I'm from Slavonia, I know what kind of situation we're in and we see us as businessmen paying here's the tourist community that's the richest in Croatia, there's money, it's throwing itself away. Thank God we have good tourism. How much of that does Slavonia have? I don't know, very little. And I would have made one agency to pay for one agency to help Slavonia today, which we have indeed brought into that state of affairs in these 25 years. So that everyone from Croatia can pay into that agency to help Slavonia. We've all been investing in tourism for years, and we don't know who or why we're paying for it, and they're swimming in big money and thank God we have good tourism thanks to this war and this thing that's going on around so people come back... Therefore, this reform is soft for me because small people will not be able to carry out, and large companies and large banks are money from Croatia and nothing is taxed on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4332	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Misic for his replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4333	Dear Representative Misic, what is very obvious to you is for someone very much. I agree with you on one thing, you shouldn't rub your neck with fat geese. Imagine why we pay in fact you are an entrepreneur, why do you pay parafiscal charge to the Croatian tourist community? Well, it's the most pervasive sector in Croatia with tourism and they're still at a loss. You've noticed they're at a loss, and wages have excellent. So let this House decide to reroute that money from that segment to the Slavonia Development Fund, for example. I agree that you suggested it, I think it was very useful and that it would make a deep sense for specific projects that would raise a significant amount of money. But the thing that hurts our citizens the most is that for 20 years we've been in a crisis all the time, we're always in a crisis, we're always saying, let's all stand up, let's tighten our straps, let's cut ourselves, get out of the crisis. Gentlemen, no one came out of the crisis like that. I said it was one of the last ideologies of the past century but it's still in effect. These key things of financial institutions you see no one touches. Why? Because banks are the biggest lenders of the state. There's an old saying that says, the hand that receives is always under the hand that gives. Therefore, the recipient must listen. I think it's all clear and there's political messages.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4334	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4335	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Lovrinović, your remark on the abolition of tax exemptions on first real estate is quite justified for me. The logic of this tax reform is that the minister rewards those who have three, four, five, six or ten properties or as his former owner of the castle in Zagorje and lowers their tax rate from 5% to 4%, and to all those young families who go to buy their first real estate, of course, that zero-foot tax raises to 4%, so no less than four times. Now I'm wondering, I'm asking the gentlemen at MOST here and a fellow Bull who defends all groups in society and I support him in that, what message do we send to young people today in the Republic of Croatia? So you will buy the first apartment of 80,000 euros in foreign-owned Croatian banks, and this will be charged by the Croatian State from 1.1.2017 to 4% of the tax. Great. At the same time, we know that there is almost no such tax in other EU countries. I ask you, Mr. Lovrinovicu, because Mr. Minister, this also shows a reflection of his culture while this debate is being held, given that 15 laws have united her into one reading that she can't stay until the end of the day and listen to this debate, I ask you what kind of message we send to young families in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4336	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Clarina, for her rep. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4337	Dear colleague Klarin, that is a profoundly wrong move. Look, if I were a young man who had graduated from college and all, this would have stimulated me even faster to get out of the country. But the minister is here I have to say he offered a solution to this, allegedly the tax would be compensated to those who paid from the state, so from the state budget. Wait a minute, so a man pays 30 thousand kuna right away, and he's going to get paid into the state budget, so the state from the state budget is going to pay him back, I don't know what time. So wait, what, what's the point of that? Is it possible to increase the liquidity of the state, so she'll return later? I simply can't understand this measure, gentlemen we're here from different parties, but if we don't all support it to be abolished, it won't change anything. I said it was a marginal contribution to the revenues of the budget, then we are all responsible for this simple crime of exorcising young people from Croatia. It's just an incomprehensible measure. I can't figure out why someone went this way to punish a young man that they couldn't, and so his apartment set still lets him pay a 4% sales tax. You've described this well, so on the other side of this... etc. Here's a young man who doesn't have the money to do that. I can't be surprised by this measure and just here he looks at us and listens to the public, although I didn't come to this Parliament to play, we need solid moves and finally to run the right things in this country. I understand cosmetics, but it doesn't solve anything. In this country, fierce state moves must be denied.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4338	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4339	Dear colleagues. Mr Lovrinović, I would like to make it clear in person in your discussion by estimating some observations that we can very well think about, but what is not clear enough perhaps to these messages here and the very proposal of these reforms and this whole package, in fact, that the Law on Local Taxes has achieved that they sublime themselves as local taxes which are 100% therefore regional or local self-government. What is not and what is in preparation is the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government which will be done by the end of the year, so it is not only a mere promise that the state budget and the finance ministry will give the units some charity, but it will neatly make common taxes see exactly how much and how it will belong to the percentage of these common taxes to units of local or regional self-government. So this will be clearly defined. This sends a message that it is in the planning, since the law itself is not defined to predict in the planning as it is in the current year and all of this will be defined in real and percentage terms and these will be the elements of that law that are to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4340	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4341	Dear Representative Peric, this is a serious one-off proposal, so the intentions are serious and what you're saying is supposed to be familiar. Be careful, a serious job is considered the one that already means when it's being said that everything is already prepared, so we know the answers to these questions, see, you're talking about futur, it's going to be solved, something is known and something doesn't know, so it's going to be solved in walking, etc. So that's what I should have done. I personally don't understand why such a rush, of course the haste should be in this country because we're in a difficult situation. But all that's right and we're not gonna be saved by tax policy. Just before someone said, so no one touches this Parliament and in this government does not run a story about monetary policy for 23, 24 years, it is obviously still a forbidden topic, it does not open. And about this, it's, you see, throw on the table, and the whole nation will talk about it, entrepreneurs, citizens, richer, poorer, everyone has something to discuss, the effect is small. And that's why we're still poor society, which is why we have problems. And what's worse is we don't rely on our science, on our experts, and every society that made it is doomed, sooner or later. You see our committees in the Parliament, there are no outside members, no experts, gentlemen. You know what the explanation is? There's not much money, we're in crisis. Well, that's small money, and we have top experts on certain areas. And then what do we have? We have this to quote Goethe that the most destructive knowledge is taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4342	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply to the replica. With this, we've exhausted the replicas in this debate. Next, an important colleague, Miroslav Šimic, applied for the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4343	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. We are facing a series of legal changes that make up this tax reform and the Most Independent Lists have a broadly positive view of the proposed changes and the intensity of the overall tax reform. The tax changes ahead of us are a quality framework for promoting economic growth and less tax burden on our citizens. We also believe that they guarantee a stable and sustainable system. We particularly welcome the intention of discharging work and capital because this is the direction the Most is also behind from the very beginning. It is important to consider tax redundancies of capital through a reduction in profit tax from 20 to 18% and for small entrepreneurs to 12%. We see this as positive for the reason that this measure leaves funds to investors for investment and new employment. For the purpose of abolishing the tax relief for reinvested profits, we appreciate the arguments that this relief is used by an extremely small number of entrepreneurs and a part of them through accounting manipulations rather than for real investment. But in the future, we think that we should consider leaving room for the introduction of incentives for production investments such as investment in equipment, machinery, and construction works because of their significant impact on economic growth. In the future, we believe that there is also a need to look at other opportunities for tax disbursement of capital such as a reduction or a complete elimination of income tax on capital for dividend recipients and a share in profits based on a share in capital, as this creates a positive investment environment for domestic and foreign investors and once again dynamics the development of financial markets as an alternative source of investment financing. A percentage reduction in profit tax for entrepreneurs who employ a certain number of young higher education persons is also one of the measures that should be considered in the future. A further reduction in profit tax for export-oriented industries and creating high additional value, above all we think of sectors such as ACT and high-tech industries. Of course, we are talking about the measures we discussed with our partners, which should be considered in the future when the effects expected for this reform are achieved. We understand that because of fiscal stability, it is important to keep the model that we have agreed with our partners. The proposed framework for income tax reform by reducing the rate from 25 to 24 and from 40 to 36, with an increase in the threshold for personal deductions at 3800 kuna levels, is considered to be positive, as this increases the competitiveness of the workforce and increases the available income of citizens and stimulates consumption. The way work is released leaves more resources to employees, encourages personal consumption and makes work more competitive. We also believe that a greater reduction in the proposed income tax rate from 24% to 21% should be sought in the future, as this would increase the tax charge to a greater extent for citizens from so-called. medium-income although they appear to be high-income in Croatia. Such a way would further cover a segment of highly educated labour that currently emigrates from Croatia, above all we think of engineers, IT experts and doctors. Of course, these proposals are part of some future thinking, too, will depend on fiscal stability following the impact of the tax reform that is now being proposed. We understand that the documents that are in front of us today are such that they have their limitations and that the key element of their adoption is fiscal balance. What we think could already be applied is an increase in the personal deduction that should be applied to people with foster children, given that these children with families live for 24 hours and have complete care, and this move in a certain way supports fosterment as the most optimal form of care for children living in homes today. We also believe that, through changes to the Income Tax Act and through changes to the Profit Tax Act, the Government should continue to support the working stockholdership of the so-called ‘work’. ESUP models which unfortunately do not seem to make these changes. As far as VAT is concerned, we are pleased to see that there is a 5% rate of taxation of bread, milk, medicines and orthopaedic aid, thus showing certain social sensitivity. By retaining reduced VAT rates on milk, bread, medicines are directly affected by the risk of poverty as they are of primary importance for each person where any price change is affected and manifested through the growth of expenditure on this good, which increases the share of primary needs costs in the basket of goods, which affects the increase in poverty thresholds for basic living needs and makes citizens sensitive to other potential price shocks such as the increase in fuel or interest prices. Croatia as a social state must also take into account at any time and ensure the dignity of its citizens and work on active economic policies to reduce the risk of poverty. This is one small step in that direction. Although the consumption of these goods in the shopping cart makes up about 4% of citizens are goods that satisfy their basic needs and which are not resistant to shocks, changes in fuel or energy prices, and at any moment citizens must be able to secure available income from which they can subscribe and their needs. We are particularly pleased with the reduction of VAT on electricity consumption, which directly helps a far wider circle of residents than the tax changes proposed so far. We believe that this is also a certain dam of potential and prospect to say the increase in electricity prices that is seen because of the situation that is known to everyone and the contracts that are signed. The reform proposal proposes to reorganise an independent sector for the detection of tax returns by the Ministry of Finance, etc. A taxIN which is currently acting independently and is under the authority of only the Minister of Finance in a way that is transferred as part of the tax administration. The position of MOST is widely known that we are satisfied with the work that is being done within the tax system, without prejudice to the results of other administrations and sectors discussed today by the minister. We will use this time within two debates to get answers to all open issues related to the position and work of this sector, but we have no reason not to trust the Minister to want to keep this sector equally successful. The set of these tax changes also includes the abolition of the corporate tax which we particularly welcome, it is also known that MOST has advocated the elimination of this tax as a small step that shows the direction in which Croatia should go towards entrepreneurs in a way that facilitates their business and stop burdening them with unnecessary taxes because it is a clean air tax. On the agenda is our proposal to amend the laws that we will very likely if these proposals pass to withdraw because this new law already leads to the abolition of the company tax. With regard to facilitating credit institutions, we support the intention to help blocked citizens in this way, but we express the skepticism once again whether and how much and how much they will be able to control credit institutions during these write-offs because we fear that credit institutions will go to write-off primarily to companies where it is clear that they cannot be charged primarily by those who do not have any property. And the question is how much this measure will eventually be able to affect citizens who are the hardest to deal with. We also believe that, within these discussions and through today's response, the minister will come up with all the information and eventually find the best solution to make life easier for those citizens who are blocked, which I think is the intensity of this legislative proposal. As far as the impact on local self-government units is concerned he's clear I mean to everyone in this assembly and it's clear that it's another one of the hits on local self-government units and it's not very small at all. We are pleased to hear today from the finance minister that he intends to direct assistance or payments through the budget to help and compensate for possible, not possible, but certain loss to local self-government units. But what is important here and what we are stressing again is the dynamics of these compensations because if it waits and monitors the implementation of the 2016 budget, we all know that such a document is being brought somewhere in the middle of the year, which means that our units of local self-government will lack money and we need to look together for the best solution. We support definitely the adoption of a new law that should take effect from 2018 and we think that it should be on the benches of parliamentary deputies as soon as possible. In conclusion, we believe that this reform aims to foster a stronger investment cycle, employment and increase the income of citizens but also to keep the budget stable for the purpose of exiting the excessive deficit procedure and raising the credit rating. That is why we think it is important, after two readings and a public debate that will be conducted, to bring these amendments to the law and to make it easier for entrepreneurs to breathe, and for a certain good part of our citizens, that their gross salaries are ultimately paid to their current accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4344	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miroslav Simic, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first came to the line from a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4345	Dear fellow Simic, having few companies that have reinvested profits is not a reason for the relief to be lifted. He is, if there are those who abused it they must end up in prison. But all those who have reinvested profits in Croatia should be publicly praised and given special incentives, because they are opening and saving jobs, safeguarding the company's substance and expanding their company. So something that's relatively small doesn't mean that it can't be quality and a guideline where we should go further. Secondly, you should know that the biggest profit in Croatia is created on unpaid work, on unpaid and done work. Look at the shopping chains where you work a day for 10 hours, and you pay 8, at least 10 hours. So we will also free those who make profits by two percentage points, or make it easier for them to make a profit if they need to pay less taxes from Croatia. And thirdly, this is not a social project, a social state project, or a social state, but not a socially fair state. The social just state has 4 to 5 tax classes and what takes the richest members of the society with the highest salaries back into the fight against poverty, and it does not praise the finance minister in those countries for saving two or three billion. He is obliged to return a billion to the fight against poverty in Croatia. We have 750,000 people under census, income censorships who live or live in an area of poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4346	I thank my esteemed colleague, Silvana Hrelja, for the replica. Replication response, dear fellow Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4347	Dear colleague Hrelja, in connection with the reinvested profit. I think it was a truly commendable idea, but we have examples of practices that, unfortunately, are not good. We have a situation that somewhere just above 1% if I'm not wrong about companies that used it, that measure, and that it simply didn't give the results that were expected of the proposings themselves. As for the profits made on unpaid work, I'm sure there's a job that expects, above all, the State's inspection to solve such cases. However, through the prism of these cases, not all entrepreneurs should be looked at and then, through, observed and reduced income tax through individuals who unfortunately take advantage of Croatian workers but should strengthen inspection controls. Just make such cases have as little as possible. As far as the social justice state is concerned, I agree with you that Croatia is not a completely social just state. Our job is to change that. I am glad that we, as a political platform of MOST, have managed to help some of our proposals to make these changes more socially fair. Here we think of retaining this VAT rate at 5%, and the job of all of us MPs and ultimately of our colleagues in the executive power to take new steps that will make Croatia even more socially just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4348	I thank my esteemed colleague Miri Simic for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4349	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have said a very good-looking expression that you have a very positive view of this reform in principle. Now we can interpret that if you had a completely positive attitude, if you had a negative attitude, in principle a negative attitude, so I would like you to explain it to me as part of the ruling coalition in the Croatian Parliament. I also don't understand whether, as part of this tax reform, you as a MOST, will support a platform of independent lists to abolish the tax exemption for the purchase of first real estate in the Republic of Croatia to resolve the first housing issue. In MOST campaigns and HDZ campaigns over the past two years, in two cycles of parliamentary elections, the SDP has often been told that it is guilty of leaving 100,000 young people from Croatia. So I'm interested in whether you consider this measure positive for young people to stay in the Republic of Croatia and whether you will support it or consider it justified, i.e. as suggested by the Minister himself, i.e. The government of the
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4350	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Clarina, for her rep. Reply to the replica, dear fellow Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4351	Dear colleague Klarin, here's to explain what a very positive attitude means. If you were listening, and you did at the end of my exposure, you saw that exposure also contains certain suggestions. These are the legal proposals that we think have good intensities, have good solutions, MOST ministers supported these proposals in the Croatian government. It's up to us in the Parliament now to try some other tiny adjustments and make suggestions even better, we think it can be done. As far as tax exemption is concerned, the first real estate tax is what I can say that, when a complete tax reform is done, fiscal stability must also be taken into account. We know that all of those ideas that the MOST has as a platform and some of the individual colleagues within the HDZ can't be included in the full tax reform would endanger that fiscal stability on the other hand. Some of the things MOST advocated is capital discharge, income discharge, it's keeping the 5% rate accepted and make up an important part of this tax reform and we're satisfied with that. As for the remainder of young people or the departure of young people from Croatia, I can say that changes in income tax will certainly affect a part of people to stay in Croatia if they will have higher incomes, and you yourself heard in the opening presentation of the finance minister that other measures are being prepared that will mean a more favourable line for young people. We believe that these measures, both within and within the framework of this tax reform, will help to keep our young people in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4352	I thank my esteemed colleague Simic for his reply to the replica. The following came to the replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4353	Thank you, Chairman. Col. Simic, so you praise this reform, but you do not mention one important fact, which is that this reform means a lack of income both in the short and medium term and in the long term. It does not bring profit sooner or later and thus raises the question of why you are cutting revenue, if you have no plan to increase expenditure later. So, you're reducing your income before you answer the question, what about a 6% increase in unions waiting for 1.3, and which is practically ready for the lawsuit that unions are going to get smoothly, so you've cut your income, and there's a sword hanging over your head and you're pretending like it doesn't exist. You are also reducing revenues, and according to the latest findings, the NATO Alliance is asking for Croatia to increase payments to their budget and then the question arises where you will find these funds when you go so confidently to reduce revenues. Therefore, the knowledge remains, to me only logically that these revenues will be obtained by new borrowings, and this cannot be a policy that will heal the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4354	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for his replica. Reply to the replica, dear fellow Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4355	Dear counterpart Bunjac, I agree with you that this reform means a short-term deficit in the budget, I do not agree that this means in the medium and long term that the aim of this reform is to boost investment among Croatian entrepreneurs, on the other hand to boost the consumption of Croatian citizens. What we believe is that the state, above all, can make up for the short-term deficit that you're talking about. For this reason, MOST is publicly known against the fact that at this point the overall VAT rate is being reduced precisely because we believe that at this point it would be too much of a coup on the state budget, and that, through the increase in consumption and through the increase in investment, it is through this general VAT rate that the deficit can be compensated, not only compensated for the deficit but ultimately reduce the deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4356	I thank my esteemed colleague Simic for his reply to the replica. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4357	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I listened very carefully to your debate, but at no point did you mention an increase in VAT for hospitality, so I would like to hear what the MOST's position was on the issue. The entire tax reform is mentioned all the time and that the separation of any segment within would violate the entire system, and we are witnessing that a VAT increase was initially proposed to be fully in tourism and accommodation and on pension spending, etc. so the minister, however, gave in to public pressure, so that part of the VAT remains as it is, and part of it is not. So how come this wasn't all about reform and opportunity? Secondly, you said that in the future in these ideas of yours and the proposals of MOST that measures should be considered in the future to encourage exports. I think that this tax reform contains an export incentive measure, which is exactly the taxation of the first real estate because when we live in a country where young people leave their parents' home at 33 years on average, when the average salary of young people is, you said they will be paid back by cutting income taxes. Do you know what the average youth to 30 is in Croatia? 6 thousand 178 kuna and this calculation does not include young people in vocational training, so that it does not bring down the average. Now how many of those young people who have a salary of six thousand kunas are going to get paid by this tax reform? Very little, but they'll have to pay it back through the first real estate tax or they won't pay it back because they won't buy it. And these are exceptional measures to encourage the export or export of our young and most qualitative people, and here I would like to hear a little bit of your opinion. But I'm not surprised at my colleagues from HDZ, I'm surprised only in their credible interpretation because they said up until a year ago I'm surprised only in their credible interpretation because they said up until a year ago that hundreds of thousands of young people were leaving Croatia and now, at the very first step, they're introducing measures that will only increase these trends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4358	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic, for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear fellow Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4359	Dear counterpart Djujic, as regards the increase in VAT on hospitality, can say that not only because of the interested public but at the end of the deal between us and our partner. The VAT increase did not occur as you said on accommodation and pension spending. Unfortunately, hospitality if we look at the overall tax reform from this we could not leave out and we have estimated that it is done by a sector that is tough enough that it can not only survive but continue to work quality after increasing VAT. On the other hand, it makes it easier for farmers who, as a sector, are in a much worse situation, who need far more help and then if these two things, not only those two but also put others on the scale of choice is one or the other. We think it is a sector which is much more tough and that at this point the Croatian state should be considered as a priority to help some other sectors. As far as this exports you've been talking about, I repeat, we think these tax changes bring an increase in income truth not for the people you mentioned but bear an increase in income for young engineers, IT experts and doctors that Croatia has.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4360	I thank my esteemed colleague Simic for his reply to the replica. Next to the replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4361	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Simić, here, so to continue the sequence, many say MOST Independent Lists is guilty of everything, so here we are guilty of privatising banks, we are guilty of what the import lobby is placing its products on our shelf, we are guilty of MOST Independent Lists of what we have tycoons that manage the Croatian system, we are guilty of centralization. Of course, there are a number of shortcomings in this proposal, but here you yourself have said that one of the problems that we in MOST have seen but it needs to be analysed well, it is the problem of local self-government i.e. We are all calling for regional development, i.e. balanced development but the fact that so far all policies have forgotten these areas and that it simply centralises everything in the main cash register. And it seems to me that with these tax reforms, there are no criteria that these funds will be compensated through Minister Maric's promise. So there are no criteria and we need to know that most of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is empty except for Zagreb and a few major areas. Which is disastrous. One more question, you explain a little bit, we're the same club, milk is 5%, that milk is 5%... positive but the fact is that some billion kunas from European funds that were intended for our OPGs allowed these exactly to open up the OPGs and that today we have 70% of import milk. That's why young people leave Slavonia, because money went wrong, only 30 domestics. And that's what we need to work on, the whole strategy, and of course, that's why MOST is guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4362	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Bul for his replica. Reply to the replica, dear fellow Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4363	Dear colleague Bulj, as far as everything that we are guilty of today is concerned, of course it is neither the first nor the last time in the Croatian Parliament that when we discuss, we act as if the time has begun today. It will not end with our debates and the fact that we have here on different sides of people who are responsible for the evictions they are talking about today and are calling for them as some sort of argument in these changes of tax laws. What I can say is that MOST, along with its partners, has influenced and contributed, is, in the end, publicly known especially when it comes to the lowest VAT rate where we have made these tax changes more socially fair. As for the units of local self-government, we heard today from the minister that they are planning to be helped in a way that will receive funds in the amount to be made in 2016, and what we know from the announcement that a new proposal for a statistical region is being prepared in Croatia. I believe it will be much more just especially for the parts from which you and I come.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4364	I thank my esteemed colleague Simic for his reply to the replica. With this, we have exhausted the debate, i.e. the replicas of this debate. The next debate on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party's Club of Representatives, Reformist and Independent Representatives, will be shared by distinguished counterpart Recajmir Varda and distinguished colleague Zeljko Lackovic. Here you go, Mr. Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4365	... on the abolition of the right to exempt from the payment of real estate tax for citizens for the purchase of first real estate by which they resolve their own housing issue. [[Specially enabled.]] In response to the replicas of the opening exhibition, Mr. Minister of Finance said that a way would be found to facilitate young families' purchase of first real estate. This looks like a hollow to me. First, pay the tax when you close a loan agreement with the bank and buy an apartment, and then somehow we'll pay you back the same amount of money. It's really not tax reform. Namely, I tried to re-analyze the proposal of the government programme, which was presented by the then-capital speaker, now the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, in this Parliament, concerning demographic policy, national policy and in this programme, regardless of what was very summed up, I could not find a basis for this proposal for tax reform related to the purchase of first real estate. On the other hand, as regards demographic policy, I think that the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy should be consulted in particular. If we intend not to pay taxes on real estate sales in the first purchase, we will create young families who will have children tomorrow. Because the natural decline of the population analysed by the Croatian Institute of Public Health in Croatia last year, and I have the record. The latest figures say that the difference for 16702 inhabitants died more last year than was born in Croatian hospitals. The live births last year are at least since our country, or 37252 which is even 2314 fewer babies than the year before. In 2014 there were 39566 live births. These are data relating to all Croatian counties. So somewhere in Europe, the average of 10 people born over 1,000 is 9 per 1,000. So when we talk about this first real estate tax, then we should consider these very negative democratic trends, including the eviction of the young, educated and unemployed population. If we're all in favour of demographic renewal and an increase in birthrights, then I think we should go back to the current legal solution, which is the release of real estate tax on the first purchase. Second, as far as the Local Tax Act is concerned. Since 1997, we have these solutions that are now proposed for real estate tax in exchange for real estate. By 1997 we had seemed to be a fairer, more social solution, which is that the difference in the traffic of real estate in exchange was paid on the difference of value of real estate. This is for me staying with this tax, so the system we already have is actually tax. Two properties that were purchased, on which taxes were paid, in exchange and now again in exchange for salaries one and other participants in the replacement of real estate tax according to the value of the property concerned. I don't think that's at least fair. Secondly, I am also saying this from the point of view that we should return to solutions before 1997, because our households are getting older and older households in retirement especially have a very large living space that requires large costs of municipal services, energy costs, reserves, etc. And if they go in exchange for a smaller space, then they must also pay taxes on a smaller apartment. Therefore, two solutions are possible and we suggest them. Consider them when drawing up a final bill for second reading. The possible solutions are to return to the solutions we had until 1997, so that the real estate tax is paid in exchange for the difference in value, market value of real estate, or that, not to pay the real estate tax, that participant who entered the smaller apartment. I think that in that case we could bring particularly nursing households, or pensioners who have such a residential space into a very favourable position. As far as the proposal for a law on local taxes is concerned, I must leave my colleague Lackovic with a pay phone for limited time. I'll just mention article 38. The proposal for that law relating to the age coefficient, i.e. the age of the property by which the tax is determined. I think that according to this coefficient, those who live in castles or in attractive locations in larger cities will pay less taxes than, say, pensioners living on the coast or in tourist destinations. Thank you very much. He's got a word from a colleague named Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4366	I thank my esteemed colleague Varda for this debate. Continuing the debate, distinguished colleague Željko Lacković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4367	I would like to thank my colleague, the chairman. So, behind each law remains after verifying its application in practice certain consequences, so I will try to look at what will remain behind the application of this law, saying that there was too little time for this to be called full tax reform as soon as the contributions are not touched, as soon as the rights of pension and health insurance are not touched, as soon as the burden for employers and salaries in that segment are not relieved, then we cannot talk to me about the whole. But any reform and any effort is better than retaining the existing state or that nothing is trying to change. What dominates these legal proposals is that they are trying to define pay policy and that's good because wages for prices like in Croatia, for obligations such as Croatian citizens are too small in all segments from those medium, average salaries to high, but that this would be just here then only missing to determine the new minimum wage amount in the Republic and then we could call this a full wage policy. What will happen in a situation where these tax solutions move, or deny, the incomes primarily that are now the incomes of local self-government? We who run local self-government units are best known, there will be a significant reduction and investment in what goes into the regular affairs of local self-government from municipal activities, from social activities, from education, from pre-school education. So when you take away the cities and municipalities of income that belongs to them based on income tax then you need to know that it will be felt somewhere, while this announcement that it will compensate and return when it has no measure or will be said, you will see what remains in the state budget will be transferred because you have a whole set of mechanisms that you could otherwise refund and help local self-government units, not to centralize their funds and re-downgrade them. So we have an additional degree of fiscal centralisation that is certainly not good for regional development. I believe the intensity was not to do away with and to prevent the functioning of units of local self-government, and be assured that many of them have half their income precisely from income tax. And imagine now a paradox that you're working on, so that's the most underdeveloped area and the city of Vukovar, you're saying there's an additional 50% reduction in income tax obligations. So there you have further weakened local self-government, and we need to know that other than those things that citizens implement from the state budget many activities and actually these daily ones realize through the services of local and regional self-government. You have come here to collate and how you will correct it there is enough time, but this set of laws must have measures that will allow you to collect additional income on other grounds to local self-government. So your income is 60 and 80% of the units of local self-government, and now you're reducing and moving, so you're directly jeopardizing them. On the other hand, it is certainly to welcome the fact that this is going to reduce the obligations imposed on entrepreneurs on the basis of the profits achieved. We even wanted as a local self-government to give up taxes that entrepreneurs had to pay on income, and for the profit achieved and we couldn't do that. We have made a proposal to enable us to come to a favourable position that we want to attract entrepreneurs to invest in our territory. And another interesting thing for me is the moment, why and what circumstances have changed that the hosts are going with a rate of 10, 13 and 25% after the actual traffic has been recorded. I have no objection to this rate being 25% but there is a cunning of a legislator who can scare investors, and investors and entrepreneurs must be afraid of a newspaper that is being introduced in Article 114(1). General tax law where banks are obliged to supply not only data from accounts, so entrepreneurs do not have to do so. or craftsmen as well as data on current account traffic and savings deposits. Imagine, what is the degree of mistrust towards entrepreneurs when, apart from the fact that officials have to put their finances on the table, private financial data from all businesses engaged in economic activity must now be available on the table. So my advice is to everyone if you've inherited or you're going to have a problem with the system, move it in time because someone can ask you where you get that money. Today there is and there is Article 63. The Income Tax Act, which in the case of a disproportionate asset and income, provides the possibility to obtain such data, and this way of obtaining data requires, in any case, special supervision where it will be controlled because these data can be significantly misused and represent one degree of mistrust with entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4368	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Lackovic, for this debate. We have a replica, a distinguished colleague named Silvano Hrelja came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4369	Dear colleague Lackovic, I only have one correction. Namely, the payment system in the Republic of Croatia must have two basic positions. The first is the Minimum Payment Act, which is within the jurisdiction of this home but also another law that is missing in Croatian legislation, it is the Law of Payments. Because we also have a number of employers who sign up for a net wage in the labor contract. All of this that we are talking about today for those who receive the net wage, they will have absolutely no use for it. Therefore, it is necessary to specify the Law on Payments which pays it is whether what everyone says is gross wages, however it is not in practice. Another story, I must warn you, colleague Lackovic, that you and all colleagues who are the mayors of the municipalities and mayors in this House are taking a huge risk of voting for the laws that lead you to uncertainty about planning your budgets, your social contributions, your development projects. And I think it's too much to ask the local, executive authorities for central executive power. I think you should show what these mechanisms are based on which to compensate you for your damage because otherwise it can be all according to that old rule that's closer to the fire that gets better and warmer. I have seen many bad experiences in the Croatian Parliament in 14 years, so I would recommend that before you raise your hand or press the button to ensure yourself very well and that you have good plans for your fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4370	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Silvan Hrelja, for the replica. Reply to the replica, esteemed colleague Željko Lacković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4371	Thank you. My colleague Hrelj, therefore it is true that and I support the proposal that wages be negotiated, that this law should be settled in gross amounts so that there can be no such manipulations. It is also true that there is uncertainty in all units of local self-government. What I would have noticed in the bill of law is that there is no creativity, or there have been paved paths and directions so far, and there is no other way to ensure maybe a more favourable status when taxing but also the protection of local self-government units. In particular, as far as my work is concerned, we have great ore wealth and we will make sure that the Government adopts by regulation, or regulation, that it is not a 10% mine rent, but that it is as it is in the Republic of Hungary. It doesn't have to be like them because then INA or MOL would pay 60% of the value, but we will also be satisfied with 12 if the Republic of Croatia or the state budget gives up 5% and then we can accept these tax solutions. And I'll look for a solution in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4372	I would like to thank Agent Lackovic. The next club of MPs who applied for participation in the debate is the HSS Representatives' Club and their representative representative, Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4373	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. In the name of the HSS Club, our comment on these announced tax reforms is that we welcome the government's interest and intensity to make tax reform discharges to help our residents, citizens to live better and from the proposed measures is not obvious enough for us to do so and indeed come because the proposed measures will not contribute to sufficient accumulation of capital and investment when it comes to businesses or free income in households with the aim of speeding up economic activities, and increasing consumption and most important job creation. When it comes to profit tax, we welcome a reduction in profit tax from 20% to 18%, but Croatia still has a high rate of taxation of profits. In Germany, it has been reduced to 15%, in Serbia it is 10%, the Baltic countries are 5% and many countries in the EU that have full tax exemption for large industrial investors for 10 years and more. We believe that we should have left the reinvested profit as a tax relief especially in undeveloped areas such as Slavonia and Baranja, Zagorje, Lika, Dalmatian Zagora. That we need to find a way to stimulate entrepreneurs to go in this direction, as it was done in the unification of Germany east with the west, that for investments in East Germany, entrepreneurs or companies were exempt from profit taxes if they invested and opened new jobs in the area. And we are from the HSS and I believe that MOST should also support all other parties of such investment in these undeveloped areas in order to preserve jobs in these areas and create new jobs. When it comes to income tax, we believe that an increase in the untaxable work to 3800 kuna is going to help our citizens and our households to have more opportunities... and to have better and higher income. Unfortunately, however, it is these undeveloped areas that I was now talking about that average salary is well below the average of the Republic of Croatia, and most of the employees work for so they were not paid and were not in tax returns. We understand that, through other measures, the reduction of VAT on electricity, the export of municipal waste and, in a similar way, will compensate for this. However, we believe that there will be a stronger, stricter control of these companies because we are afraid that this reduction in VAT will not reflect a reduced price or export of municipal waste or electricity because there is not enough competition especially in the municipal sphere where companies have a concession to 10, 20, 30 years and they will hardly give up their income especially because it is a good part of them and in financial difficulties. I think that there is a need to work on this for a second reading and how that control keeps the price so that this lower VAT will reflect on the benefit of our citizens, and I believe that it was also the intensity of the promoter. Also when it comes to VAT, I have already said today that I welcome the natural reduction of VAT on agricultural inputs from 25% to 13%, although I must say that the Croatian Peasant Party has advocated a reduction in VAT not only on agricultural inputs, it also means seed, fertiliser and other re-promaterials, and that it is at the level of VAT, as Austria, Hungary, Germany, France from 5% to 7%. And this is a reduction but we are still less competitive than the environment and what is important for us to solve the agricultural product market, that we might consider how to stimulate the food sector, reduce VAT to the final product of our OPG, that we should think about how to force our food industry such as Podravka, Žito Agrokor to use raw materials from our domestic OPGs in their production process. We boast that Vegeta is our domestic product and inside it may be just the name and work of workers and over 90% of the raw materials are embedded in it from imported raw materials. There is the promoter, and we from HSS expected one more quality proposal to solve the market for agricultural products and also to stimulate such investments to organise domestic food companies especially in these undeveloped areas and thus to preserve life in Slavonia and Baranja, Lici, Zagorje and other undeveloped areas. Also in the case of taxes relating to local self-government and this part of the increase in the non-taxable income tax rate is due to the fact that most of the tax revenues of local and regional self-government units from income tax. The prime minister, he said he would compensate for this regional self-government by raising stakes from 12% to 20% in local self-government 80%. This may have certain effects in those units of local and regional self-government where they already have stable funding, I mean here in Dalmatia because of tourism, I think of Zagreb and the surrounding area because the development of industry, most of the companies are just registered, and these are the more underdeveloped, five Slavonian counties will go badly and all local self-government units in the area. And it would be correct if at the beginning we now knew how this would compensate through direct donations from the state budget. What are the criteria? Because once on this subject with Mr. Minister, I talked about the existing indexation and rules of the game by which the placement went from these funds was not transparent, that some units of local self-government that were more developed had higher income per capita, received larger grants from the state budget and those that were underdeveloped depending on how the political option led the policy. And I think we have to, one of the criteria must be the number of residents, the number of emigrated, the number of unemployed and a number of other parameters that must be included in order to make such donations from the state budget transparent. And I think that's already needed our municipalities and cities and counties to know because they should have already received financial instructions for budgeting for next year. And regarding excise tax, we welcome a reduction in the tax on alcoholic beverages. We have advocated precisely these measures because we know that, a lot of the Ministry of Agriculture, the government and local and regional self-government have co-financed the rise of many years of misery. Unfortunately, by introducing excise duties a good part of these crops is abandoned and this way by reducing excise duties we open up the possibility that through the processing of these fruit species into strong alcoholic beverages and give our households a new income, but of course we need to design a variant of control, solving the customs warehouse in order not to additionally burden our entrepreneurs. And I think everyone will agree that that threshold for personal consumption of 50 liters is too small to have to rise because of our tradition and lifestyle and because of the customs we live in Slavonia and Baranja, even in other regions. And when it comes to the General Tax Law, I think we must urgently settle the order of payment of debts because according to the current law and the proposal is to pay the interest first and then the cost of the execution and then the principal. In this way, the debtors and there are over 300 thousand in the Republic of Croatia are unfortunately over 50 thousand OPGs in that package. It should be resolved to amend the law in that part to charge the principal first and then the costs of the execution and interest. And it would certainly make it possible for our people who are in trouble with paying off loans to get out of debt slavery. Here these are in the shortest lines of our review and we expect in the second reading and the suggestions in this direction that I said and we will go with some suggestions ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4374	I thank Representative Vlaovic. Representative Ana Comparić Devčić reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4375	Thank you, Mr. President. So you spoke about the problems that local self-government units will face when these laws are passed, that is, this reform of tax laws. I couldn't agree more with you. We all know here that the budgets of the local self-government units had to be published, the draft budgets had to be published from 15.11. That would be today. And that they must be delivered by 31.12. So we can ask ourselves what inputs the mayors are now making since their entry moments are going to change a lot by passing a package of these laws? What seems to me is going to end up so that in the following year we will have rebalancing and if what the minister promises is not, or not in this area where the price of kindergartens will rise, there will be an increase in the price of extended stays, there will be an increase in the price of municipal services and it will end all so that we will actually implement this reform through units of local self-government, and on the back of citizens living in these units of local self-government. In fact, this will be one reform that will drive these young people away from this country. Because this reform certainly does not contribute to the birth rate and the rise of birth and demographic restoration of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4376	Thank you. Replica response, MP Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4377	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleagues, here's a thank you for your replica. You yourself said that units of local self-government are at the stage of budgeting. The draft budgets had already to be published with the fifteenth, and it is logical that they were doing so according to previous years' experiences with a large reserve which and how tax reform will, in particular, reflect the tax on income on their original incomes. Surely most units of local self-government and alone with the commissioners of these days had contacts in great fear of being able to finance basic activities first and foremost. And secondly, how to prepare for development projects. Because when it comes to Slavonia and Baranja, investment has been announced. How much? 12 and a half billion and most of these EU projects are co-financing from 10% to 30% of local and regional self-government units. And I think there's a big problem for our municipalities and cities. We don't have that money in the field. If there is no way to make up for it, it is between a billion and a half billion procedures in the area that will reduce the incomes of local and regional self-government units. The last reform was about a billion and a half. And former Minister Lalovac has promised to compensate, it is partly, but it is mostly not, and there is a big problem in our local self-government units how to function further. And I'm sure it's not good, that it's destimulating for development projects, for young people, for civil society associations that are preparing projects, and they won't be able to get support from their own local self-government units to co-finance the same projects. And therefore we expect it to be resolved in haste and not to happen, as is now the case of Brod-Posavia County with the last reform, there is a revenue of 16 million kuna less. Is it possible to pay that amount out of direct donations to the state budget? I doubt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4378	I thank Representative Vlaovic. The representative who also reported for the replica is MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4379	Thank you very much. You mentioned your colleague Podravka and Vegeta product. You're right, the only thing we have is a company in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and workers, and the re-promaterial is imported from Hungary, and the state means co-owner of that company what it says about the relation to agriculture, to those who could contribute, i.e. produce agricultural products for products in Podravka. You mention it, you said at one point that it's easier in Dalmatia with local self-government than in Slavonia. It may be in some places where tourism is, but behind is the situation that many places and villages have no water supply, no basic transportation, organised transportation of students. So it's part of the burned ground. And the fact is that all the policies and, of course, thank you very much that you're the only one who said it was MOST's fault. So you didn't mention, you said you expected something to back up. We want to back it up or they won't because otherwise, everyone who spoke so far is guilty of MOST. We have an example of milk left at 5%. But it's unfortunate what with 64,000 dairy producers today we're at 4,000 dairy producers. It is regrettable that former Minister of the Government of Zoran Milanovic has gone from EU funds to 2 billion kunas to various tycoons, i.e. The owners who manage not only dairy, but manage essentially no milk Croatian only 30% of the product. Of course, there should be measures that should improve Croatian agriculture, especially in these undeveloped areas. Thank you again very much for what you are the only one so far who has said with Mr. Lackovic and Varga you have not said before is guilty of all MOST. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4380	I thank Representative Buljo. Reply to the replica, MP Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4381	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. A colleague of Bulj, you know that family agricultural economy, a household that lives in Sinj, Trilja, Nova Gradiška or Orahovica, does not care if he is guilty of HSS, MOST, SDP or HDZ, but wants to know how he will live tomorrow, whether he will have the same means as you said for his child to send to school, whether he will have for books, whether he will have a bus that will take him away. And what's even more important when that kid finishes elementary and high school or college, God forbid he'll have a place to work. And I think that in that context I have always spoken and I will speak and advocate those programs and projects that will ensure that, and I believe that you will support me in that, and that is what your citizens who have voted for you to vote here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4382	I thank Representative Vlaovic. The club of MPs who also reported for participation in the debate is also a club of national minorities. On their behalf, Representative Ermina Lekaj Smackaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4383	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates. In front of the national minority club, I would refer to a package of tax reform proposals. As we know, the tax instability that produces tax uncertainty is one of the main obstacles to the development of entrepreneurship as well as one of the main reasons for the lack of both domestic and foreign investment. Since I see elements in this tax reform that will contribute to the stability of the entire fiscal system, I generally welcome its adoption. In addition, as stated by the Minister himself, tax reform aims to reduce the overall tax burden, promote competitiveness of the economy, build a more socially fair tax system, stability, a sustainable and simple tax system, simplifying and equilibrating the tax administration, as well as to provide greater legal certainty to taxpayers. The proposal for a tax rate reduction law from 20% to 18%, and for taxpayers who earn annual incomes of up to 3 million kuna and to 12% will contribute to strengthening the investment climate and economic growth, as well as further redistribution of labour prices, which I believe will have a good impact on the economy and life of citizens. In this respect, it is necessary to welcome the tax redundancies of farmers, craftsmen and small entrepreneurs with revenue of less than 3 million kuna, which should act incentivising investment and job creation. Furthermore, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the Republic of Croatia entrepreneurs spend 196 hours a year filling tax forms and various forms, which is a huge burden for them because they also have to be accountants, accountants and entrepreneurs. In that context, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Advisory brings certain improvements to that plan. But on the contrary, I am concerned about the proposal to increase the VAT rate from 13% to 25% on catering services because it directly threatens the survival and business of the caterer, and we know that tourism has grown precisely because of these lower rates and much more dynamic than the whole economy. According to certain calculations, we can expect that the price of coffee or another warm drink in the catering facilities will increase on average by one or two kunas. It is possible, however, that the caterers do not increase retail prices but decide to bear the burden themselves. I hope that the tourism industry will not calculate new prices for the next season and that there will be no negative effects in tourism. On the other hand, I welcome the decision to give up the planned increase in VAT rates on bread, milk, medicines, prescriptions, orthopaedic aids, books and newspapers. The higher VAT on medicines would also increase the expected health losses resulting in savings, and the cheapest medicines would be prescribed instead of the quality of medicines. An increase in the price of prescription drugs would result in an increase in the price of medicines that patients buy on their own to so-called medicines. White recipe. It should be noted that if we want to ensure the sustainability of the science and education culture in the Republic of Croatia we should consider returning a zero VAT rate to books. For example, such a zero rate has some developed Western countries such as the UK, Norway and Ireland that have long understood the correlation between such a tax rate and the sustainability of book production. This is of course related to the culture of reading, but also to the general level of tolerance and dialogue in society. We should also consider reducing the unwarranted and detimulative VAT on an e-book that is as much as 25% in Croatia because around the world is increasingly seriously considering equating the rate to a printed and e-book. Furthermore, as regards the reduction of VAT on electricity supply services and other services, I would like to point out that companies providing those services are likely to only show a reduction in VAT. This will not reduce prices, and citizens will not feel any improvement on their standards. For example, Elektroprivreda can address the issue in its internal acts, while citizens will continue to pay electricity at the same rate if not at a higher price. Finally, I would also refer to some of the measures that I hope will have a positive effect on the health of both the individual and the health of society in general. In this sense, I welcome excise duties on new tobacco products such as electronic cigarettes, e-fluids and heated tobacco products. I also hope that the higher VAT in the delivery of white sugar will at least contribute somewhat to the fight against obesity among the youngest members of society, but also in the fight of some chronic diseases that take on the scale of epidemics in Croatian society. For these reasons, the National Minority Club will support tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4384	I'd like to thank Agent Smack. This concludes today's session. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. when we leave with individual participation in the debates. Thank you. Session adjourned at 20.30 p.m. We are continuing to discuss a package of tax reforms with individual debates. The first representative to report for participation in an individual debate is MP Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4386	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Yesterday, there was a lot of talk about tax reform on behalf of clubs and, in fact, certain shortcomings were raised, i.e. certain questions about how much this will ultimately cost. However, in order to get a clearer picture of the overall tax reform and its full impact on the economy, it is necessary to actually look at the overall structure of income, on the other hand the overall structure of the expenditure of the state budget. As far as we know we have somewhere around 60 to 70 billion kuna is collected annually in the Republic of Croatia from taxes on consumption, somewhere if you take with income and take all these contributions somewhere around 50 billion kuna taxes on labour remains very little means taxing capital some up to 6.7 billion kuna and taxing property somewhere up to 2 billion kuna. Now the question is raised in this entire structure of tax and not tax-based other givings, what can the Minister of Finance or the entire government actually do? It can do very little. For what? Because the expenditure side of the budget from which it is actually covered, which covers all these revenues are actually to say not to be given, but where there are a number of rights and obligations from the pension system, from the health system are actually categories that you have to touch if you want to do the full effect and effect of tax reform. As far as we know, the pension system unfortunately has minuses in its amount of collection and spending somewhere around 18 billion kunas, as far as we know that the health system has 2 to 3 billion kunas every year. So only these two systems generate a total of 20 billion kuna minus, the question is at all how much and what can tax policy actually do. The question arises because of this so-called. Full tax reform expects much, very much to be expected. They expect citizens, they expect entrepreneurs. I think those expectations are a little too high, why? Because you simply have to work on the expenditure side of the budget, you have to do deep, structural changes in the health system, in the pension system, so that the entire system that gets the biggest part and we know that here VAT is the largest part where you fill that budget, most of it is hard to have maneuver space, maneuver space to reduce more significantly, to reduce the tax burden that is large in the Republic. It's big in the Republic of Croatia because I said both spending and work are highly taxed. Very highly taxed but I say on the other hand you have a pension and health system and when you take a system of public administration and other these social benefits, especially what is coming. We also know that interest is now somewhere on 10, 11 billion kuna and that there is no excessive expectation that there are good intentions, although there are good intentions both from the Minister and from the Government to dissipate both the economy and the citizens, however, the effects will not be obtained because of the simple such structure of the spending side of the state budget because they simply cannot. These deficits have actually been generated over 25 years, in fact, the structural problems of the Croatian economy, the structural problems of the Croatian economy. If you take the information that since 2008, entrepreneurs have lost 100 billion kuna revenue in the five years of the crisis. Take the data from FINA, which means from 2008-2013. 100 billion kunas lost the economy simply because of the recession and because of all the problems that were going on. It's just very difficult to make up for such a big minus that happened in the economy and you have to give it an incentive to go in the other direction. There was also a question of the Law on Tax on Profits, or certain problems generated in the Croatian economy from bad bank placements, through a debate here. So here, in fact, it was also said that it would give the banks a certain opportunity to actually clear their balance sheets with 31.12, and that in other words it would mean that they would write off those debts to the citizens. It's not gonna happen because you can't actually make a bank. What the Croatian banking association itself has confirmed is that this means that they are recognised in a certain part of the expenditure that they do not have to go into a number of lawsuits and meet all the criteria they need in order to obtain tax recognition. They said they'd sell those claims themselves. So the output of all these claims from their books does not give rise to the possibility that this write-off that happens today will sell its claims. You saw in the CNB's report in half-yearly information that this is being brought around 3 billion kunas a year today. They clean their balance sheets, sell their claims to various societies, however, does not mean that these claims they sold to third parties do not mean that they wrote them off to citizens. And that's not gonna happen in this case either. With good intentions, I say, to encourage and clear the balance sheet to finally start making banks, turn to credit activity. Because we can't have a certain economic growth unless there's this credit activity. And now the question is, is this part of the write-off that we unfortunately don't know because, yesterday, the minister himself said that those relations are 40 billion kuna, I would like to make it clear until the second reading by the banks how much they're going to amount to and how much the burden they're actually going to be going to go to the state budget. How much does it cost because you have to have the fiscal effect of such a measure but you can't ultimately get the banks to write off their claims to the citizens. That would be good, that would be great, that would be a very good measure, that would be a much better measure than a whole of this part of tax reform that we said that here costs about 2 to 3 billion kuna. And imagine, on the other hand, the bank is writing off 40 billion kuna to its citizens. That's a great measure. Unfortunately, she's not going to happen. It won't happen because they're already in the process of selling their claims, they sold their claims that they actually already taxed in their books where they got tax discharges and they actually wanted to completely clear their balances, clean up everything that the tax administration should one day ask them why you'd get tax-recognized expenses if you didn't manage your risks quality? Because the Banks Act in order to get something tax-acknowledging expenditure, you have to manage your risks in quality, so you have to manage the risks if a structural problem happens in the Republic of Croatia in that part, that you have taken all the necessary measures to collect and that there are procedures for the approval of certain placements in fact you prove that you have been actively and in the right way managed by your claims. However, there will be questions here where many of them will get through, where banks have not managed their claims well. It's a number of... where they gave up to hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas to companies that didn't have employees, who weren't in some part of the production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this way, they will get the abolization to write that part down, to clean up their balances and to their owners. They've made very good money on these bonuses, because it's always been a matter of bonuses to place these funds to the citizens. Now a large part of the debt has accumulated. They'll write it off, and according to the owners, it'll make a very high-quality balance-cleaning form. However, the question is whether it will thus activate their credit activity in Croatia. A similar problem is happening in Italy. And also Italian banks have over 300 billion euros in uncharging loans. There are also big problems in what way so-called. These NPLs will affect the economy. And you just see banks by all their activities can't do a certain credit activity. And if you see the effects of this tax reform that is limited, which can't give us that full swing of the economy, you simply can't because that few billion kunas can't give us what the economy needs. And the economy needs this very way of cleaning balances with banks, but also agreements in a completely different way, not this way where you leave them an opportunity where you don't know how much it's going to cost, you don't know their effects. Because every year they know for themselves, and these reports show that they pay off profits, or dividends, abroad. And it is very clear with them to sit down and say what their policy is to place credit funds in the Republic of Croatia in the next five-year period. Because all the measures that the government is doing and wants to make it happen will not happen, it will simply not happen because it is impossible in the whole of this complicated process to activate the economy without strong credit activity of banks and help the Croatian National Bank to change its goal, which we have always said is full employment. Because if the government's goal is the full employment of the economy, or fiscal policy, then that must also be the goal of monetary policy. If they work together and work together with the banking sector, then these measures can mark a certain step where the promotion of the economy is 3, 4 or 5%. Because simply if that doesn't happen it's actually going to blow out the entire tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4387	I'd like to thank the representative. The first representative to report for the replica is Representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4388	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague Lalovac, I can agree with one part of your exposure because what you've actually started out with is something that you haven't been able to do. And I'm sorry that from what you're saying, a certain skeptic is saying that it's going to work out. However, what I think is important to say here is the fact that last week we listened to the grief of one of your colleagues, it's not about you, it's about one of your colleagues from the same party that's like Caton the Elder, whatever the subject has been mentioned over and over again. Of course he'll collect the drugs, the crumbs, that he'll collect the bread, that he'll collect the milk, that the books will collect, that the newspapers will collect, etc. Fearing the public. And when I actually warned him that it wasn't good to talk about things until you got the law in front of you then he didn't pay attention to it but again by not knowing 20 or 30 times about the subject that was discussing it. I purposely highlight it because it's been created over the past week, two atmospheres that people will get worse after that. And let's be clear, I mean somewhere around a million and 800 thousand people will actually have a better, equal or better situation than it was before thanks to these laws. And that's what needs to be said clearly, not scaring people that they're gonna get worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4389	Thank you, Agent Reiner. A representative responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4390	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Well, as I recall, that proposal actually came from your club. We simply warned of opportunities for all EU countries to have reduced rates. You know yourself that even some countries have zero VAT rates. Unfortunately, we can't, we couldn't have because they are, they have old member states. Croatia doesn't have that. So she's not an old member. So they have it like they have France, Germany or some other country. And they're simple, they have that possibility and the lowest rate that a country can enter is that of 5%. In fact, we warned that Croatia must have a reduced rate of 5%, because your club estimated that it should grow to 12%. And to take advantage of that possibility, as other countries use, European countries to have a reduced rate on certain products. And I am glad that in this context this benefit, what the directives give the possibility to keep that low rate because it is necessary precisely because of the poorest part of the layer of Croatian citizens and because of what you have said and because of medicines. Because in the end, if they had collected the drugs again, the finance minister would have to find in the budget 300, 400 million kuna to pay VAT for these medicines. So eventually it just has to because they pay, get into that system. So I'm glad it didn't go to an increase of 5% in that context. Why? Because even when we had the administration of Mr Milanovic, it was also the pressure of Brussels to make the lowest rate of 5%, that it was too low. But simply Croatia still does not have that degree of economic development. If France, Germany and other countries have low VAT rates, I think it should have stayed in Croatia and therefore I support what it has remained.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4391	Thank you, Agent Lalovec. The next representative to report for the replica is legislator Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4392	Dear fellow Lalovac. You said in your presentation that the pension system records minuses, or a large difference between income and expenditure. I would say that this is just a financial formulation of this problem because it is a gap between income and rights that workers during their working life have created by paying contributions to some previous generations that may not already be among the living. And society rests on solidarity among generations so I don't see any reason why in this tax reform all pensioners or have a worse pension, if nothing else because of the purchase of coffee, and I accept that there's been a correction for milk, medicine and what I appreciate, but that everyone else, all pensioners have less or equal pensions than those over six thousand kuna that will get an increase in pension, 15 thousand of them. It would be very interesting to see what the structure of these 15 thousand pensioners, precisely those who had the highest salaries and directorial and defence pensions etc. and disability pensions, you should see what structure it is and a little bit of analysis. I see no reason to go to this increase and thus increase the rate, while neglecting all other millions and 200 thousand pensioners when we have a situation where 15% of Croatian citizens are below the social censorship for the release of supplementary health insurance and 40% of pensioners have incomes less than those social censorships of a thousand 516, for a family member of a thousand 936 for an individual or single person.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4393	I'd like to thank Mr. Hrelja. Lalovac's representative responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4394	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor. So with all this reform, actually the pensioners are left out of the whole package. Not only are they left out, but now in this part of the progressive wage growth that is about to happen, I spoke publicly about it, that some parts of the reform I welcome, so I never said the whole part means that one part I welcome. But what will happen on the other hand? It will happen that this indexation that will have to happen will simply be late sometime up to a year, and simply the pensioners from the whole of this reform, the question at all, how will it go, and the worst ones, and also when the indexation is done that will have to be done because of this increase that will take place because of this indexation itself, will be late a year in this whole effect, which means that immediately the part, and we know that there was a part of the policy of all governments to increase the share of average pensions in this part of the average salary. This part of it will not unfortunately happen but will now fall rapidly, after a year of indexation, it will get a little closer in that part. But what's also opening the question here, I wasn't opening it up to him about the introduction of real estate taxes. So we need to be aware that the pensioners who live alone in real estate, and we know that they have property from the inheritance that will also be affected by that part of the property tax that has been introduced since 2018, and I hope that in this part of the debate, we will have a year now as long as it is announced for preparation, that we will pay particular attention to social status or if they have low pensions. You yourself spoke about a thousand 400, thousand 500 kuna, and if they match this part of the property tax, it will be an extremely, extremely sensitive issue, and we know that Croatia cannot introduce such a part of the property tax as they have outside is 90% of the Croatian population or owns or owns property mostly more living in rented areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4395	Thank you, Agent Lalovec. The spokesman for the replica is MP Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4396	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lalovac. So I fully agree with you in your finding that the budget is fixed and that when we talk about people's salaries and their material rights in the public sector either about pensions, the health system even the finance minister doesn't have much space or maneuvers to make more significant steps. When talking about the revenue side of the budget, it is certainly necessary to welcome the ministry's efforts to disburse entrepreneurship, to increase GDP growth, if that is the only way to increase the charge of the state register. In that sense, the objectives are acceptable. Of course there are a lot of things in this tax reform that I don't agree with either, but that's what I'm going to say in the debate. But what you're a colleague of Lalovac, and that's why I signed up for the replica, which is the most important thing in this whole story this reform cannot live for itself and will not achieve those results if other reforms, and you yourself are ministers who have seen in the media that you announced that this is the first government reform at this moment and only, but if it is not followed by other reforms, if the government stops educational reform, if the government stops the reform of local self-government, if the government stops the reforms that we must inevitably implement, then neither will this give its goal. Of course, there's also health care that's in serious trouble. But what I wanted from my colleague Lalovac, you didn't say that in the debate, you did a good job with the IRSKOK with the education of people and me was actually illogical and I don't know why Minister Maric was taking it upon himself, of course and so far the IRSKOK was responsible for the minister, but he was independent in the work and he could take the steps himself. But in this chain that the minister has now set up, here I can come to the minister today and give him the information, he'll send it to his assistant, he'll send it to the director, he'll send it down to some clerk at the end of it won't be anything. The IRSM must be in my opinion independent in the work so that it might act because we finally saw some of the results he had achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4397	I thank Representative Sagar. The answer to the replica is representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4398	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor. So these days there's a lot of talk about this independent sector to discover big tax fraud. Croatia's entry into the EU has made it possible for Croatia to be exposed to major frauds as has happened to all other countries. When it started to form that department and office you know that then I went with my team to the United States, meaning the U.S. Tax Administration, at the Ministry of Finance, means the German Minister of Finance and many other ministers trying to determine how best it can actually be formed that a young country such as Croatia is fighting major tax fraud. Why? Because at EU level, it's a top issue for you. ... is actually the biggest issue in the European Commission because the Commission believes that the EU, in fact, loses billions and billions of euros on tax fraud. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They even gave a specific assessment for the Republic of Croatia, you have the official estimates of the European Commission that around 5 to 7 billion kunas are lost annually in the circular tax frauds that occur, those that actually fall into the Croatian tax system. And that's why we've actually formed this way according to the advice, according to the advice and recommendations of all these institutions. The minister has absolutely the right to organise the ministry as he wills and as he considers it. However, what we have actually tried to say throughout this context is that these are very important and valuable people because they deal with very high transactions, to protect the Croatian budget. Here we are also talking about 50 or 100 million kunas about abolishing certain fees or giving certain incentives. But on the other hand, we must also have protective mechanisms against the many frauds that engage in the Croatian tax system and thus damage the taxpayers and the direct state through numerous circular frauds. So we just made our point. The minister has absolutely the right to whatever he wants to form his system and I hope he doesn't fall to the full quality of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4399	Thank you. The MP who also reported for the replica is representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4400	Listening to these discussions, we expect Mr. Maric to be some kind of miracle worker, but I wonder how this, how the tax administration can function within a functional tax administration within a dysfunctional state where all countries are de facto dysfunctional. The surface analysis will show whoever reads the daily newspaper how one state can survive, 1.1 man works, 1 is retired where 50% of people are employed in state-owned companies and a third of them are statued because we copied, you said you were out there, I lived out there for the same 30 years, I worked in the judicial police, you have functional states, why don't you prescribe clear laws? Now we're starting to tax the diaspora, the people who were coming back. I hope there's gonna be some kind of compromise there that, it's a pure profit for the state and we're burdening these people, it makes it impossible for other people to come back here. 16 billion kunas coming here outside the minimum, that's about 3% of GDP if not anymore, what about this, how one system can function in this kind of system, I don't understand. What happened to the financial school funded by the Germans in the '90s and after 2000 to educate our administration? Other countries have financial police. What do we have? We've got a javelin in courts where there are over half a million unsolved cases. This system cannot be maintained. Where do we get our pensions from? For the second pension column, this system as it is now unsustainable. If we don't start ruling the decree and withdraw some specific surgical cuts. Here I hope this will be one contribution to this modernization of the state but these where institutions work in a total vacuum this is unsustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4401	Thank you to Representative Glasnović, the reply to the replica by representative Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4402	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative, as I have actually said, regardless of the good intentions of the Minister and the Government to go into that part of the discharge and the entrepreneurs and parts of the economy simply the whole system, you have talked about the system a little bit, very little will give effect precisely because of what I have actually warned you about many other problems from the judiciary to the entire system so that Croatia can get, not the kind of economic growth that we had 10 years ago, which in the main part was pumped by public spending and creating private debt. Croatia, while I was a minister, was being criticised when I said that Croatia is very close to Greece for private debt. So the share of the debt, the corporation of companies and citizens, is about 40% of GDP, their private debt and the debt of corporations, or the company is 80%. So 120% is the debt of those who generate, that generate consumption. So in the end, a very small part of this part will be poured into final consumption, to address this issue of stable economic growth. We know that the state can no longer be that generator that will only build and finance infrastructure projects and thus achieve growth. But on the other hand, what happened, we have a lot of positions in the budget, what we talked about about the expenditure side of the budget that you simply can't touch and you have to create long-term economic growth to cover this part of the interest. So it will be very difficult in the coming years if we do not have economic growth rates greater than 3%, but stable rates, this measure will initially give a certain positive effect. However, a lot of other measures should be opened here that I hope will come through reforms and reforms to achieve full employment and what you have actually said, reforms in all these areas to address these ineffectiveities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4403	I'd like to thank Agent Lalovec. The representative who also reported for the replica is representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4404	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovac, I fully agree with you that this is not a solution that will in fact lead to prosperity in Croatia alone. However, I would say that this is still a good way for the Croatian government and the Ministry of Finance to go because the effects of this are said to be two billion that will not end up in the state budget but will actually remain in the pockets of Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen' accounts. This is, however, a good incentive, a decent infusion in society that will certainly reflect positively on personal consumption and other consumption that will lead to more production, a greater demand that should, in fact, lead to much better effects on the macroeconomic plan. And when we add that we have to, you said it yourself, in fact, all the other policies that bring about the level of step forward, so I would say only in policies related to EU funds. As we can see in Croatia this year, 6 billion kuna from EU funds were collected in the first 9 or 10 months. When we add this, next year this 2 billion needs to be more and more, because this really means that we have to bring the state to a more rational level. It is definitely too expensive for both citizens and businessmen, but its obligations are too high. You said it yourself about pensions, 37 billion dollars a year cost pensions, and from that you collect 19 billion of the rest goes actually from taxes. You have opened an important issue regarding this write-off of claims to banks or credit institutions. There was a lot of talk here yesterday to take advantage of it, you said it made them actually get into it. I think it's neither of them, but it's giving them a chance and a good chance because through the write-offs, it's hard for someone to buy that claim that they can't collect. But I think that many citizens, including farmers and milkers, who my colleague Lackovic spoke of this morning, will actually be unblocked and will in some way be taking a huge burden off their backs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4405	Thank you. Representative Lalovec's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4406	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative, this measure, if it were to happen, would be a much stronger measure than this part of the tax reform to disburse what we said to private debt to citizens and companies in their consumption than these 2 billion that will happen. I'm just afraid it won't happen because unfortunately the minister doesn't, the government doesn't have a chance, she can just give them the possibility of tax-recognized expenditure, whether something is tax-recognized or not something tax-recognized, it's the possibility of the government. But the government can't force a business bank just as it can't force any other entrepreneur to do it in his books, regardless of whether something is tax-recognized or not, it's not tax-recognized to get him to write it off to the end consumer. You just don't have the tools. We're talking about tax policy here, whether something is taxed or not. You are not taxed because you must then meet all these criteria that I spoke about risk management, collection, lifting, etc. means all these instruments. This part is skipped here because banks feel that it will not charge anything that it sucks to spend extra money on the procedures of the commission and the entire collection procedure so that they can accept it tax later, and here they simply take away that part of it, or they put it in their pocket so they don't move in the process. But it's about tax-recognized and unrecognized expenditures and not ultimately because there are no government instruments for any government to finally write it down in their books. So I hope, and you'll see what the effect will ultimately be. God forbid that happens because it would be a much more significant effect than the effect of this tax reform. And then maybe it would be some kind of start-up wheel. But unfortunately, they've already sold those claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4407	Thank you, Agent Lalovec. The representative who also reported for the replica is representative Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4408	Thank you, Mr. President. So former minister Lalovac gave a very important observation of a part of this legal solution precisely on the write-off or recognition of tax reliefs during the bank's write-off. And I think this is one detail that needs to be considered specifically from the fact that banks have been cleaning up their bad placements by selling such discounts into invaluable funds and these funds today hold those claims. We believe that when recognising tax relief, we should consider whether these are write-offs to legal or physical persons. Because you're going to have a situation that any trust that bought the claim, and you're going to give it to him as a tax relief because the bank sold it as a non-refundable asset just to get rid of the funds that he must have in the CNB on behalf of such a bad credit placement. Those funds will not charge the fund either, but who will charge and who will charge the fund to whom? They'll charge for natural persons, for craftsmen who have their own property, and they won't even do it by domestic lawyers, so you won't have a bank of executives, but it'll be some B2 or what they're called funds. On the other hand, you will not have Hanžeković, but you will have Vranski, Shuster or any of the foreign lawyers who are trying to obtain the right to represent themselves here, although they do not know either Croatian or Croatian but can hire cheap lawyers who are also in blockades here in Croatia. And this is a very good proposal to primarily address the issue of sold transfers that if they go inside into a relief that they have to be deleted to those natural persons because we will have a goal of thousands and thousands of people again, the companies have gone bankrupt anyway and the situation will happen both in relation to craftsmen and legal persons. Legal persons are not responsible for anything, and craftsmen will answer with the property of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4409	The answer to the replica is representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4410	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What I've actually asked here is a question not only of banks, it means why such a possibility is not given to other entrepreneurs, not only these up to 3 million kunas who later enter this part of the consumer sector but, for example,. HEP, HRT, and many others I do not know about companies that have up to 500 or 1000 kuna debt to them that they do not have to go from 100 kuna to 1500 kuna, that they are given the possibility to those public enterprises and those who have a certain part of the municipal fee to give them the opportunity to do not have to go into the proceedings of execution and judicial action but to give that part to the citizens or the pensioners or those who cannot be paid to write them off in that act. And I think that would be even more fair regulation because you know exactly the direct impact on the citizens. Because when we talk about these bad placements, this is where 40 billion kuna was agreed, or the total part. So somewhere around 16%. However, when you separate that part you have, you will see that the construction sector, where they have broken up, all the time we speak are 60 to 70% are their NPLs or non-returns, and the citizens are in a very small part, i.e. they are very well paid. So they're somewhere at seven to eight percent. Your companies are somewhere at 40%. And then when you create a certain environment, it comes up to 16%. If it is to be done here then let it be exclusively for the citizens, let that part be extended to these public enterprises and let this be covered by HEP and this and then you will have a direct measure for Croatian citizens, then you will know exactly what is going on. But if it goes the way it goes, then it's going to happen that most of the writings will happen to the so-called. The ficus of hundreds of millions of kuna companies where the banks broke, I say, took bonuses, broke. In this way, it will finely be written off according to its mother and will ultimately be taxed and will receive recognition for what they have done. And ultimately, the taxpayers will pay for it. And I don't think that was a good policy. Let's just focus on the citizens and separate the companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4411	Thank you. The next representative to report for participation in an individual debate is MP Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4412	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister with his colleagues. Well, at first, I have to say that I'm a little surprised at this debate of the former minister who puts cash in the same level to the user or the placement of a service, so I need to write off both of them, but good. Maybe we'll talk about it later. I'd like to begin by commending the minister. I can see everyone's getting him. I think he's shown in the past year that he's been very good at working, that he's brought some peace into this ministry, that we feel certain security regardless of all the problems we face. And I think he offered a tax package that the professional public welcomed, she said it was good, that maybe he should have even insisted on some of the moments that became questionable. But compared to what we heard yesterday, and we heard all sorts of things. I think the expert public might be more right. We heard yesterday that this is a good direction, so we heard that this is the wrong direction, so this isn't even a reform at all. So we heard one letter on the other about the 7 sins of this reform, and we heard that this is cynical what we do, etc. And we heard that it wasn't even good, but that something stronger had to be withdrawn, even stronger in some way entered into this tax reform, and all I said was coming from the opposition. Says an old saying, “No one has been born yet to please anyone. ” And I think Minister Maric also has a role to play and I don't think he will, regardless of all his good intentions, please all through this tax reform. Although I say I personally respect everything that has been announced, what was written in the pre-election programme of the Croatian Democratic Community, which has agreed with colleagues in the coalition, i.e. in power with the Most. That the basic objective of this reform is the first and most important integrity. It means that we are not discussing the individual impact of any of these 15 laws, but that we expect the overall impact of all 15 laws but not in the first month of next or second month of the following year, but perhaps at the end of 2017 even more in the course of 2018. I deeply believe that there are still spaces that some things that are not here now may change by the end of the year and that the very integrity of the reform is what we need to guarantee that it will succeed. What else was wanted through this reform? Dissolve entrepreneurs that they can work, that they can have certain benefits that have been abolished, that they can invest more, that they have cheaper inputs, that you disburse and citizens especially in the part of paying certain bills for electricity, for utility services. So that's how certain amounts are increased in home budgets, that their income is increased through income increases? Finally, what is the primary goal of each finance minister is to ensure the stability of public finances when we apply all of this. Someone's gonna get something, somebody's probably gonna lose something, a smaller group. But it should actually be ensured at the end of 2017 that it looks pretty good. Each government has so far been pursuing such goals. Some in better times, some in worse times. We know governments who made certain moves in better times, so it didn't end well. We know some who have made certain moves in better times, so it didn't end well. We know some who, in worse times, made a better move, so it ended a little bit better. But I think all governments have made certain changes so far or even new tax laws and we have a chance here today to say to discuss 15 such laws. What's the difference between now and a few years ago when we're talking about these laws? We've often heard here yesterday that it's going like no financial effect, no evaluation, etc. The difference between this proposal and what's still going on in two readings. So far, most tax laws have come into emergency procedures and we remember that well and we know what it looked like. What newspaper does it appear? I think we've heard a lot of times, but it's not a waste to repeat. In income tax, lower rate taxation instead of current 25 and 40%, with a 12% reduction in the lowest rate, with an increase in personal deduction to 3800 kuna. So with 915 thousand people so far, 550,000 will no longer pay the smallest, minimum tax. And about 300 thousand more will pay 95% less than what they've paid so far. There is also a personal deduction for children which is very important in terms of the total amount of future salaries from 0.5 for the first child to 0.7. For another 0.7 to 1. Third from 1 to 1,4 and so on, which is not insignificant in certain accounts of future revenues. Profit tax, down from 20% to 18%, to 12% for small farmers and entrepreneurs with an income of up to 3 million kuna. It increases the cost of the team from 30 to 50% with the return of car relief. Well it was one in the past rather important segment where they were just on another minister angry especially entrepreneurs why he did it the moment he did it. The VAT increases rates in catering from 13% to 25% for catering services, only cafes and restaurants, stays for half board accommodation in hotels. The VAT shall be reduced from 25 to 13 for the re-promaterial in agriculture, for the calculation of electricity for the calculation of public service accounts. Well, that's a pretty big amount especially in households that spend, I don't know if you spend more than seven thousand kilowatt hours a year just saving in that part will be somewhere between 700 to 1,000 kuna a year. They're not insignificant household sums. As far as real estate is concerned, we have here what we heard is a relief in the purchase of the first real estate, but also a reduction in real estate tax from 5% to 4%. Introduces 2018 simple real estate tax. And now that we see all these measures, this is just one part of them thirty that appear through 15 laws, which go mostly more or less to unload everything or to lower something besides saying one single tax between VAT rates from 13 to 25 for catering services that are increasing. I'm trying to understand why the opposition against all of this, against the discharge, against the increase in wages, and I can't understand it unless I compare it to the time before it was quite different. Then everything that could have been lifted, and only one step came down, and it was said to be something that saved me, Croatian tourism. How have we discussed these past years? We had 44 discussions about tax laws, it was always a model or a principle of trying, a mistake, a repair, so we kept discussing certain laws. What was the result of these individual discussions? For the first three years, we had strong promises that it would be good, we had what we may have forgotten, and this was the decline of GDP in the first year of the mandate, in the second, in the third only recovery in the last year of the term, although they assured us that every measure and all this debate on any tax law was saved and that everything would go better. But it didn't work out like that. All we can think of is an increase in VAT from 23% to 25%, which is being explained to us as the protection of the poorest layers of Croatian society. I couldn't understand that the VAT increase protects the poorest, but they explained it to us and told us so. Let's just think of an increase in energy prices, electricity prices 20%, gas, 25% heating, from 40% to more. Water, only on one fee from 0,80 limes on 2.80 kuna water charges. It was on every communal account an increase in the total account between 10% and 15% of the load. That's what everyone hailed, hailed those who are today against this discharge. I can't understand it, but that's how it was. We're now trying to cut that electricity bill or the garbage bill, they say in opposition we're against it because it's not okay. I think it's just a change in profit tax this story that's been spinning around here for two days now, so it's from 2013 to now, and I've read in some papers, it's been written off by this 12 billion kuna model in the last two years of the claim sold 2.5 billion if I read it right. He comes up on the other side and says, "Why are you doing this?" Who guarantees you that you will succeed, who guarantees that the banks will write it off and not sell it? So I ask them the same thing, and who guaranteed you when you brought it in that you would succeed, but someone was doing something. Apparently, part of it has been cleaned up, obviously someone may have gotten out of those blockades. And it bothers me, I don't know, why we have 50,000 people blocked in FINA who owe up to two thousand kunas, say, a small debt. That's 100 million of some debt we have. Can we work this out? So I think this government can handle it in a very soon time it will come up with its solutions but I don't want to discuss it the way it used to be discussed. We give you the opportunity, here you expect the effects of the government in the first month of her work. Why isn't that settled already, why don't we know what's gonna happen tomorrow? I think it's very clear, and I welcome this reform because it goes into the part to disburse entrepreneurs to make more income available to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4413	Thank you. The representative who first signed up for the replica is representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4414	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers. Well, my colleague, Boric, you actually said in one of your sentences what seemed crucial to me. We can't talk about each other all the time. On the one hand, some complain that it will actually not help citizens enough, although it is not true, and on the other hand they completely ignore what has been mantra for months and months to say so, and that is how to help the economy. This is where we achieve each other. On the one hand, you have a direct effect on individuals, which leaves more money for them to spend more, to indirectly increase production, etc. but on the other hand, there are a whole series of measures that help mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. And we all swear that we want to help small and medium enterprises and that they are the bearer of development and everything. Now that we have concrete suggestions that I don't know, it increases the threshold of entering VAT to 300 thousand kuna, to deduct 50% of the pre-tax, purchase and rental of car services, but also other machines, equipment, investment equipment, etc. We have those tax cuts from 20 to 18 for those who make up to three million a year to 12%, etc., etc. So a whole set of very well-composed measures that should be particularly helpful to small and medium-sized enterprises, we want to introduce, then it's not good again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4415	Thank you. Representative Boric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4416	I think it's good, no matter what I say, I respect the right and the opposition that they say what they want, I listed what they told us yesterday, I mean, I see that more or less and don't have any bigger objections, they were trying something so it didn't go a little bit different, etc., mostly being hunted for little things. But I believe that, in the depths of some of its thinking, at some point, it will still benefit Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian citizens. And it's not the level of pre-fashion settlements or that famous law on pre-fashion settlements that were conducted here, there's been a lot of such other laws because we've always listened to different explanations. I remember former Regional Development Minister and Vice-President Mr. Greekic, who assured us when he was amending the Regional Development Act, the Income Tax Act that when he took a billion and 800 million kuna back to local self-government. We've seen the effect of his compensatory measures, they're at a level that I've been able to find between 500 and 600 million kunas of billions and 800. And now here we have an attack on why you're doing it to local self-government but we have a promise from the minister who said we'll get back everything we took, but then there's doubt, and why you're doing it, because there's one thing I believe deeply, which is that the current minister with his associates has been thinking very well, worked full year, so he didn't go into the ministry and in the first month he changed two laws and did something more than he did a year of working on a full reform, made a lot of variations in which something could be carried out, and I think he chose the best model that was agreed and that he would probably pass through this House in the next two weeks and apply in 2017 and then we'll see what he was saying today or yesterday, the effect at the end of 2017 and 2018 and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4417	Thank you, Representative Boric. Replica was also reported by MP Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4418	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Boric, I honestly don't think what you said about the opposition being a bit too severe and something special attacking this reform law package. Even I think it's quite an open debate from the opposition and that they haven't basically come up with any concrete proposals that would be opposed to the very proposal to amend these laws. I look forward to it, I look forward to it, and it is obvious that in principle the full debate on the opposition side has been conceived and prepared for the 5% VAT on bread, milk and other supplies. Since the prime minister with the minister managed to negotiate with partners and trade unions and everyone else that the part fit in principle was nothing more obvious to attack. And there's a lot to suggest. And I always kind of see that when discussing laws that should not only be criticised but also proposed. Well, I kind of miss it on that side of the other side. What makes me happy here is this courage with which these tax laws have been changed and let this courage and debate which is held here in the Croatian Parliament and the results of which we expect, and much more by all analyses of good and better things than bad changes to these laws, be it a guideline and an indication to the other ministries and ministers that they too are going through changes of laws because many laws should be thoroughly amended in Croatian legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4419	I'd like to thank Representative Hrg. Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4420	Comrade Hrg, I say that you and I have only been here for a long time and we have really been through a lot of these discussions, always the government has spent its thinking and for that there is a majority in the assembly and what I am glad that we finally have the opinion of the professional public who is fully meaning on the side of this tax reform, of course, with some observations as to why something like this is or why it could have been like this or not. But in general, when we all look at everything that has been proposed and there are dozens of different measures of larger and smaller this reform guarantees what the minister clearly said yesterday and yesterday, a total annual impact of 2 to 2.5 billion kunas within GDP growth of 0.3 to 0.5%, and it should be that wheel that I say even stronger will pull GDP growth and then everything else that goes with it. And of course we'll support her like that. And the opposition I say she'll do what she thinks even though we're in the past, I say here, it's been a month that we don't have the papers we'd grade on the side of the opposition, I mean, I don't know if there's anything on the agenda. Most of the time, I'm saying, it criticises and assesses what came as a proposal but that's what I say is a neat and normal job of the opposition to criticise and always be as effective as it can be as an opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4421	I thank Representative Boric. The representative who also reported for the replica is representative Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4422	Your Honor. My colleague, Boric, you said he wasn't born yet who would please anyone but I won't talk about it but I will say, you said 13% reduction in agricultural taxes. It's very good, it's very good that VAT on end-users fell from 25 to 13% and that's a strong incentive in agricultural and livestock production and we listened to criticism that it would have been good if it had been 7 or 8%. I agree, however, with the overall reform, this is a very big step. However, in a conversation and strong pressures from the field by cattle associations and veterinary chambers, I have also given myself the initiative of Minister Marić and I have a promise from him, I hope that he will agree with this and this is a reduction of VAT from 25% to 13% for animal health services and the medicines used in them. Of course, I don't think it's going to be in the most recent reform, but I hope with a positive answer that the first next tax rate correction will come to this correction, and especially with regard to this debate that we had in the morning, which is the dairy sector because it's certainly an intervention that is so-called. positive discrimination on domestic production and how much we can help domestic livestock production. So, Minister, please, if it's possible to take care of that if not now and then for the next change in the tax rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4423	Thank you. Representative Boric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4424	Comrade Križanić, we have witnessed what has been happening in agriculture in the past few years especially under one SDP minister to Mr Jakovina. There were frequent discussions, we had one MP who often talked about cows, milk, cattle, people who deal with agriculture, and we saw that a large number of measures went against them, and a large number of small OPGs were gone. And I hope that this is just one of the options that the finance minister could make. I don't know what all the other ministers will be able to do, especially the Minister of Agriculture, to finally say what we talked clearly about in the campaign when we got citizens' trust, which is the Slavonia project, it's the development of agriculture, the development of small OPGs, the development of villages, because I say without life in the countryside is hard to live both in the larger and urban environments. And it's really happening to us that we need to start thinking about what the state can do especially in those passive spaces of the Republic of Croatia, in which way these people keep there especially I don't know in Zagora, Dalmatia Zagora, in Lika, and also in Slavonia, I say where we can keep some people from letting our villages go, that we don't let the settlers or the smaller places because it just happens. We remain largely an elderly population, and it is certain that some tax incentives or other measures can contribute to the preservation of that life there. And I certainly say we welcome this measure that the opposition does not support in terms of reducing VAT on agriculture, for farmers from 25% to 13%.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4425	I thank Representative Boric. The representative who also reported for the replica is MP Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4426	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric, you've put anything from the opposition in our mouths that we said or didn't tell us. Well, among other things, you said everyone should go where the minister is. Of course, I can tell the same minister here that I've heard things about him saying, that the gulkoza, the Superhic, is suitable only for the rich but it's not the subject of this debate. What I want to stress now is that if you listened to our opposition colleagues we say that some parts, with some parts of this reform, disagree. I'm going to point out again, maybe I'm boring you now, and I don't agree with the fact that VAT in catering is increasing from 13% to 25% for the simple reason that it's not good for guests in Slavonia, it's not a good step. We can't, the law is passed for the territory of the Republic of Croatia, I'm aware that the minister can't bring something else for Slavonia, I'm aware that there are also if we talk about agriculture that there's this measure which repromotials VAT from 25% to 13%. However, no one guarantees that this will make the price of these products cheaper on the market. If, if the measure will help import again, it means import goods to profit those involved in importing and trading, we will achieve nothing. But that measure is certainly to be welcomed. But this measure means hospitality, especially Slavonia, is not good. And the minister explained when he spoke, not only the minister and many when said and when VAT was 13% and 10% did not lower the price. Again I claim it is impossible in Slavonia, you can't put the price below 10 kuna any drink. That's the essence of this story. And one more thing. Of course, the minister listened to the people of the field, listened, and said himself that he listened to the leaders of the local self - government units, of course to their subordinate concessions. And when we talk about real estate tax, I agree that it'll probably not be more than a utility fee in practice. But taking down the conditions for that income to be strictly intended in my opinion is not good because it suits the leaders and will it be good for the citizens of those units? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4427	I thank Representative Sagar. Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4428	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, you're asking us to guarantee the effect of a certain tax measure, that we guarantee its effect? So we guarantee as much as you guaranteed, say, when you reduced your rate to the catering activity from 25 to 13, you guaranteed that prices would fall. But you didn't guarantee and the market does its thing if I understand it well. And I never came to the bar and asked you, please, I don't know how much VAT is on your coke? He says 13%, then I'll drink it or I don't know I'm going to another cafe. I don't think we can discuss it that way because the guarantee is one thing, the government has made a move, and what will the market do, what will the markets do, what will the farmer do, what will the caterer do? Well, there's room for the market to regulate those relationships at least that's how I understand it. And I listened to you talking about the hospitality service of a minister who has been telling us for several days that we are the cheapest destination after Portugal all over the EU. That there is a 30% space to reach an EU average where our price can still be competitive or equal to many that it has in other EU countries. And we all know that. If we travel, if we go to Austria, Italy to a restaurant, to a hotel, etc. So we know how much we pay. And it's certainly a lot more than we do here if we're just gonna talk about that segment. But there's no guarantee. Yesterday someone asked me how you're going to guarantee that this chair is going to be cheap for the kids? How will you guarantee it? Well, the system and the market do their part. If they're going to do it or they're going to be more competitive or I don't know the nation is going to undo all the influences of the VAT and lower some price, so what do we do here? Well, it's not the task of the state to control the price in that part. If we go down to that, then many will have problems with that. Maybe then everyone would like her to be the tallest, so no one would ask them anything. But I don't think it's going to work that way, and I think we should give up that level of debate. I understand the SDP and their needs, but that's not what you need to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4429	Thank you, Representative Boric. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4430	Thank you, Mr. President. You're saying the electricity savings for a family will be between 700 and 1000 kuna a year and I believe you. Let's even assume it's going to be 1,000. And then let's take a young couple who decided to buy the first property in Zagreb, a small estate of 55 square meters. It costs you in Zagreb now I have watched the price of EUR 120,000. 4% will have to pay taxes now. That gives you 4800 EUR or 36,000 kuna. They'll have to save on that current for 36 years to compensate for the damage you'll do them with one single move. So they're 30 now that they're buying their real estate, and they're making up for it, and when that damage is done, they're 66 years old. And that is what you claim to be good for them. Now, don't make people stupid and crazy. Tell me we need more money, so we're removing that privilege for young people. And why do we care about young people? But don't tell them it's good for them when it's going to take them 36 years to make up for the damage they're going to suffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4431	I'd like to thank Agent Stazic. Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4432	Thank you very much. My colleague Stazić, you always have individual calculations. So you take something from the pear basket, then you transfer it to the apple basket and then you say it in the grape basket. That's what it looks like. So is this. You compared something, commended and then said but it takes 100 years to save on electricity that you collected 20% to get to the level of what it had like when you were. If you could count so well, we wouldn't have had a public debt of 80 billion in a four-year term. Which you didn't know how to count at the time, so that our deficits were smaller, so that you didn't throw yourself away with money, that you were able to leave something behind from all these public debts, i.e. At least you've invested it in something, but you've just spent it and someone else has to deal with it now. And it must, of course, ensure the sustainability of public finances and try to do something. But I say I'm always happy that the SDP in the opposition knows more than when it's in power and that's your right role and you always give the most when you're in opposition and you need to be in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4433	I thank Representative Boric. Representative Franjo Lucic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4434	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, you spoke in your presentation of what they are and how and how these people sitting across the street from us, the SDP government implemented measures in politics. You said they promised and we know for a fact that they failed to implement their own programme 21 without talking about all the evil they did to Croatian agriculture. counterpart Lackovic today says that in recent years there have been 38,000 dairy producers. No wrong, 68 thousand milk producers either, so we fell to nine, so now we're down to four. These are all the effects of the former SDP government. And gentlemen on the left, don't say anything that isn't true, don't convince us of something we know how and how to implement it because it was your actions that led to today's Croatian peasant at the end of power, that you destroyed it with your wrong policy, and that I'm not talking about former Minister Jakovina who, through European measures 4.1, 4.1.2. These are multimillion-dollar damages that have just been caused to those people who have invested, who have hired hundreds of people, and have not received those programs because the regulation he set up was exclusively for individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4435	Replica response, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4436	Thank you very much. I don't care what they say. I know that they are currently dealing with themselves and that they are in the internal process and that they have a possible 7 completion of this process and that they do not know where they will end. I just hinted, i.e. I compared a little bit what it looked like, because they keep using that famous saying that allowed ox is not cabbage, so they're doing something but like we can't do anything like that because then it's not good. I think this reform is going in the right direction and it's going to fix a lot of what they've done wrong. And we remember telling those times that actually made the people give them a red card twice a year, you didn't pass and you deal with yourself. Because when I think of their explanation to support what I said. So it's an amendment to the Tax on Profits Act in 2013. The minister at the time said don't start the execution, but write off part of the debt. Here's what we want to do, right? They say why you're doing it now. And their leader then, the great leader, we give people the opportunity to catch their breath. And here's what we want people to do, to get their breaths fired, to write off, to have less blocked people, to have the banks clean their balance, and to continue to function normally if that means it's possible. But I'm saying, let's make time. We're in the first month of this government. It's four years long, and I hope that we will fulfill a great deal of what we've promised the citizens and that it will go better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4437	Before we continue with the replicas, I would really ask the MPs not to use the replicas to replicate within other replicas, but to really replicate the presentation of the representative himself. The next representative to report for the replica is a representative of Martha Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4438	Thank you. Dear Representative Boris said in his presentation several times that this is a complete reform that solves the entire tax system, as it is very high-quality. And I just think that this reform is not complete and I can give concrete reasons. First of all, this reform is taking away large revenues from local self-government units, and it does not find a solution in which to make it up to it. The minister himself stated that the temporary grant solution from the state budget would then be regulated by other laws so that it remains questionable. Furthermore, this reform you say in its presentation will help blocked citizens, will help those poor, and on the contrary. Amendments to the Income Tax Act do not touch the poorest ones with poor incomes at all, and the reform even offers some other measures that would involve those millions of residents not currently covered by the reform. And lastly, I would just like to point out that the SDP currently has one democratic process of electing its president and we have several candidates available, unlike you colleagues who each time can acclaim your new president, and the old one deletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4439	Thank you, Agent Luc Polance. Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4440	My colleague, Luc Polance, you say she's not complete. So here I was explaining to you what complete reforms looked like when exactly your president of the club was in absentia led by the former government, which here and all its results you're glorifying, and outside of this assembly you're attacking him. But it seemed to you every week that Minister Linic was coming here, and we already dreamed of him when we came in here in the morning, he was already here. And then first there was a tense atmosphere, it was always at the limit of endurance, then it escalated, mostly talking about tax reforms ended up in stories of partisans and Ustashas. This is good today, we discuss nicely professionally, each goes in their own part right and every single proposal he went every week was the law one in that whole reform of yours. And I said that, first of all, there was a proposal, a mistake, a repair, so we discussed some laws ten times. As for the fact that we have subtracted a large portion of the income from local self-government, it is through amendments to the Income Tax Act through amendments to the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, through the Law on Regional Development, through the wrong indexation. Only in the areas of all local self-government took away a billion and 800 and said they would return and set up a compensation fund. He took a billion and 800 and returned 600 million kuna through the compensation fund. This minister says he'll get everything back, and we'll ask him if he's back or not when this year goes by and this reform applies, and then you'll have that opportunity. And as far as democratic elections are concerned, just choose and we're glad to say that you are in this process and I'm sorry that one candidate who is very loud here is not a candidate for the SDP he would be my SDP president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4441	Thank you, Representative Boric. Representative Hello Ronko has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4442	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, regarding this first property, you spoke positively in this context, you spoke positively about the abolition of this relief. So let me say that for the unemployment of young people up to 30 years we're second in Europe, the rate is 40% they basically have nothing but hope that one day they'll have a home, a family, children, a roof over their heads. It should also be said that 66% of young people, it's about 330, 340 young people live with their parents, and most of these parents are retired again, and the average retirement pension is two thousand two hundred and something kuna, and how these young people live, God knows. But they too have the right to hope that one day they will again create a home, a family, children, and a roof over their heads. And that's why it's my call not to turn off that light at the end of the tunnel and it's also an appeal to you parliamentary majority to give up this elimination of real estate tax relief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4443	Thank you, Agent Ronk. Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4444	Thank you. Comrade Ronko, we are in the first reading after this first reading goes, I think tomorrow's vote or when it will be the conclusion that all remarks and what is being said here in the Parliament will be delivered to the ministry and if there is a possibility I believe the minister will do so. But when we talk about politics towards young people, I remember sitting here especially on current watches, there was one question, why our young people come out in so many numbers. And then your prime minister said they're not going with bread, but with their heads behind their stomachs, and that's where he explained his policy towards the young. So what we can do, I think we'll do for young people in the Republic of Croatia because the problem of demographics and young people is what this government is going to step into. Through the ministry tried to give meaning to demographics, I know that through many other measures they will try to do as much as possible to say that young people in this country remain, that they do not go outside, even though the challenges are much greater than what they expect in our own country because they too have their own thoughts and on this very once and for all state policy and cannot have a decisive impact.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4445	Thank you, Representative Boric. Representative Branko Bačić reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4446	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Boric, for two things, I wanted to answer the line. The first to refer to the write-off of bad credits by banks who will later... tax them on the recognition of expenditure. I cannot understand that here in the assembly we question this measure because the bank would, after such a write-off of bad loans, be recognised as tax expenditure, trade with that loan. We've been talking here all day about the success of the taxpayer. If we question the possibility that the taxpayer may define and determine that such a bank transaction is that it is first recognised as a tax recognisement of expenditure and is trading at the latest, then the same time we cancel the taxpayer’s BOOK because if it can’t notice I don’t know what it would notice. I think that, therefore, such a single remark, that in this way the provisions of the Tax on Profit are played out of every sense. And the other thing I wanted to replicate to you is the first real estate tax, the first real estate sales, the first real estate purchase, whatever we want. I agree with all those in Croatia who say that social policy is not guided by tax reform and taxes. And I think that in the government's work programme, if we read it clearly written that it should be brought back to life and that is the SDP government, the government of Zoran Milanovic has abolished a great law on subsidisation and the state guarantee of housing loans. This law for the first real estate, such as Mr. Stazic, the government, or the state budget in 4 years, has generally given the buyer 14,000 euros. So that's 4 times the amount for a 4000 apartment, as already said the euro before to be traffic over a 55 square-square property in Zagreb. So that's what I'm saying, that law is supposed to solve the problem of buying apartments, not taxes on real estate sales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4447	Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4448	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, I agree and I know reliably that the Minister of Spatial Planning and Construction is already working on this legislative proposal, and he will soon enter the parliamentary procedure, and that is why such discussions eventually turn out to be pointless. But he says, when I remember everything that we've been through here, especially those stories about pre-determined settlements and the first form of law that's been presented here as the most passable, as the most just, etc., what it's all turned into, what all these huge changes and additions of that law have turned into, I think we're quite right about this measure that goes through the Tax on Profits Act and it's going to have a certain positive effect. And as for the taxpayer, I fully support and trust the minister that he has agreed on the ministry's structure as he believes it is necessary and that it can work, that he can, I say, do what he imagines will be good and guarantee it. And he said himself that he guaranteed for his efficiency and what is most important independence in the work because raising only some in relation to other services in my opinion is not something that is correct to all other officials who are also conscious of their work and being directly under the minister as some kind of founding part of it is much more politicizing than being in a particular part of the structure where you are independent and you have your own job and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4449	I thank Representative Boric. On behalf of the proposer, the finance minister asked for a word, Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4450	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the experience offered from yesterday's debate without the intention of going into a rather constructive debate at all today, I will apologize from this stage for the short absence from the Croatian Parliament because I have to attend a session of the narrow cabinet, there is my deputy colleague Drezgic, my type from the IRS and customs administration who will monitor the entire debate, mark everything that needs to be marked and I return immediately after the rope cabinet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4451	Thank you. The next individual debate is distinguished counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4452	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, I'm sorry the minister left the assembly, and I welcome the representatives of the ministry, his closest associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we see that we've been talking more than 11 hours about a new tax reform. I think we should all congratulate the Minister and his team together on everything we've been offered and about what we've heard so far. We see that there are 7 new legal proposals and 8 amendments and additions. I've made an effort and counted how many articles we have, so we have 1259 new articles. All this together we've heard are remarks on less than nine articles. So 1250 articles have no objections at all and these remarks refer to this smaller figure. The most common remarks were that the reform in the income tax part, that was unfairly distributed, that those of our citizens who have less do not get anything, those of our citizens who have greater personal incomes would get even more now, that units of local self-government, cities, municipalities, the county would run out of part of their income, further that the hosts by increasing VAT from 13, to 25% that there would be layoff of employees, that there would be a drop in number of arrivals, overnights and so forth. I would repeat that it is a complete reform, so it includes everything, from the income of our citizens, the personal income of our citizens, the income tax on the profits of entrepreneurs, the income of local self-government units, so the total tax redundancies are shrinking. And we can rightly say that this is one reform that offers a tax system that will be simpler, more stable and fairer. By increasing the personal deduction of citizens, income tax, and deductions for family members by as much as 1.5 million citizens will not be any tax obligations. The remaining, so up to 2 million and 750 thousand means we're left with a million and 250 thousand taxpayers, those are the ones that are said to have more and will get more. It would underline that this tax law does not regulate wages but means regulation of personal deductions. And so those of our citizens who have so far had no tax burdens and can't get less when they haven't had them. However, for all of us, the value added tax is reduced for the delivery of electricity, for the transport of municipal waste, for the purchase of repromation for agriculture and for sure that we expect lower costs in electricity bills, for the transport of waste and for the re-promaterial in agriculture, for sure that the most we will feel for farmers, for food producers and then for us citizens. Furthermore, when it comes to value added tax, would it point out who pays the value added tax? So he pays the consumer, pays the buyer. It is not paid by the caterer and even less by the householder. This VAT on catering services is paid by the guest. The guest is certainly not our citizen we often talk about who has a personal income of 2 or 3 thousand kunas or a pensioner. And surely when talking about who should bear the burden of tax reform, why not bring it to those citizens who can afford to eat and drink at catering facilities? Furthermore, the use of catering services, use catering services and our guests foreigners and great fear we have justifiable that it will lead to a decrease in number of arrivals, a decrease in number of overnight stays. However, we will also all agree in this assembly that we strive as hard as possible for a quality guest and that we wish for one. It is those who can and pay for something more, that are the guests we already look at at our best destinations, in the highest quality hotels, beaches and them certainly does not mean one kuna more cost of coffee than the one with the worst wage power. They leave the most money and leave the least mess. Now we are the cheapest Mediterranean destination and come guests we must recognize the weakest wage power. I believe that we all want to be together and that it's time to strive for a greater and more quality guest. Furthermore, domestic guests are those who have higher salaries and these changes will have even greater meanings for them there will be no problem paying that price higher, slightly higher in the catering facility. The accommodation remains at the same price, at a lower point in the tax rate and the price of accommodation and arrangements is the reason why guests come to us and it should be said that hoteliers are the ones who invest. Unfortunately, in the catering industry, we have never had any large investments or large amounts invested in this type of activity. It's hard for me because I come from the tourist area of Sibenik-Knin County, from Vodice, in Vodice is specifically tourism basic, main activity but we have to admit that one of these is a more just system. Because all consumers, all customers need to be equalised, all taxpayers mean whether they use commercial, craft, service or catering services is justly paid the same value added tax. It should also be said when it comes to caterers entrepreneurs that it will also pay a lower profit tax. It's not going to be 20 anymore, it's going to be 18%. When it comes to the whole small obligation to enter and pay the VAT, it also increases from 230 to 300 thousand kuna. There was also a great deal to be heard in the debate about regional even development. Namely, how good it would be for the burden of tax reform to be borne by those so-called. richer neighborhoods, urban units. When we look at tourism, we have to admit that 98% of tourism traffic in the Republic of Croatia is currently taking place in coastal, coastal, and only 2% in continental. Another segment is related to real estate tax and the transformation of municipal tax charges. There is a view that this collection of taxes will represent a significant cost but, above all, a special administrative organisation, where it is presented and doubts that one year is not enough. It would really appeal to the ministry to help local self-government and human and financial units. So all those services that can help us whether it's a cadastre, a court and so on so that we can if we're even able to start with a 1.1.2018. we start with a real estate tax. The appeal to all our colleagues, especially us, who come from places where we have very many objects that are now in the legal process by applying the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings, was almost not a citizen who did not apply for legalisation and in those cases that come to us for a fee to be kept in space and communal contribution. In these items we have from the size of the facility, squares, cubics, images of the facility to see where it is, most of the applicants are also the owners, so we already have a lot of these data, but surely we will need a lot of outside associates and people who are educated to have such a part of the job made by the vehicle, computers and so on, so I ask the Ministry to consider how it will help us because, contrary to 1.1.2018, it will be very, very difficult. And for the very end, I would say that the legal uncertainty we had from 2012 to 2015 that 44 times we had changed and complemented the tax system was refused by investors both domestic and foreign and one such tax reform really offers a simpler, more stable, fairer system for every praise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4453	Thank you. We only have 11 replicas. He's the first of his esteemed colleagues, Marina Skiboli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4454	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, for the distinguished representatives of the HDZ. Well, you were talking about a fairer system, a tax system. However, I, as the youngest parliamentary representative in this meeting with my colleague Sincic, must say that raising taxes on first real estate will definitely affect the remaining youth in the country. Youth and family are the foundation of society and state. And if you don't stimulate the staying of young people what you've done? The second denomination of the fiscal system must function in correlation with the monetary system. So you have in Croatia that enormous indifference. And so this enormous indifference will not be reduced exclusively through certain peripheral fiscal measures. The second thing that matters is you have to tax banks and financial transactions, not young people and tax them on first real estate. I don't think that's social.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4455	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4456	Dear colleague, I will agree that these laws need to be amended and some other laws and other measures. So it wasn't possible with these 15 now to offer five new laws. There was a subsidisation of guarantees and subsidies on housing loans that had just provided assistance for young families and those who were buying the first real estate. It was abolished during the SDP coalition government. In the Croatian Democratic Community programme, there is exactly one such measure, and I believe that we will very soon go with one such amendment and addition of the law that could help all those who buy the first real estate especially young.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4457	Second replica, distinguished counterpart Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4458	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juričev, you have said of 1259 articles only 9 articles are discussed. I'm a supporter of a constructive debate. A lot of time here is spent prepping the opposition's position and position to the opposition. I don't think that's good. It needs to be constructive anyway. Personally, I didn't have much time to study those laws on the agenda, and I'm not even some tax expert I have to admit. That's why I invited citizens to contact me through social networks and send their proposals to my e-mail address, which should be changed in laws, complemented. I expect and hope that the citizens will respond to my call and will write me what should be changed, in what way and that it will be justified because I asked them to explain it. I personally noticed at first sight what would be good since there is a lot of talk about these caterers and increasing their VAT to catering services to 25%. I think it would be better to increase VAT only to alcohol and beer, so not to a complete catering service, but only to alcohol and beer. In general, all harmful products spent in our society should be increased in taxes and excise duties. In doing so, I mean alcohol and beer and tobacco products, especially the cube. The cube could even be banned. It is very harmful even though the great traffic in gambling services in our country, although the state seems to be very harmful to me annually, but it is ultimately very harmful and has a consequence of more than 50,000 families who are unhappy about their gamblers in families.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4459	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4460	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Alexic, I think the government has shown that it is willing if there is a need for another reading and changing things. So it only applies to 9, I said roughly nine articles. So they will hear again all of us, hear what is possible and change well, and by the second reading it is possible that some articles will look different.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4461	The next replica is distinguished colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4462	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues said here I also recommend that the debate mainly comes down to a dozen articles, and that in this reform there are 1,000 of them. Here, I'll tell you first of all, why is that? I was at the Bureau meeting yesterday. There was a lot of pressure to bring these 15 laws together in a single debate in which everyone would get here individually 10, who spoke on behalf of the club for up to 20 minutes. And now we have 1,000 articles, 15 laws to elaborate in about 15 minutes. It's an impossible mission. Just to read the title, it takes you five seconds to make some introduction, you need 15 seconds. It's just a directive came from the government, and this is just the first reading. By Christmas, by the new year, we still have to have another reading, that this has to be done now, there must be no delay. And we're under a lot of pressure now. The quality of the debate, of course, has fallen, is what it is, because it needs to be looked back at in a very short time. And we have an article that wasn't so attractive in yesterday's debate, which I followed closely. I've been here 12 hours. For example, the VAT Act ultimately lists a series of machines to help, so if these machines are imported, VAT is not paid. At the same time as the Croatian industry has been systematically destroyed, Croatian production is being destroyed now that it has been destroyed, so measures to ensure that no VAT is paid on importing machines, and some of these machines can still be produced in Croatia. So what's left of it will be uncompetitive. And while some countries, let's say, Turkey has a provision that if you export largely if the company is export-oriented, it doesn't pay profit tax at all and the entire zone has been built in Turkey by export-only production companies and that export is much more competitive than others. We do what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4463	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4464	Well, colleague Sincic, this is a complete reform, and one law cannot be seen and excluded, or we will talk about it every day. No one defended you when you spoke on behalf of the club or when you said if you applied for an individual debate to give an accent exactly to the part that nobody was talking about but we all repeat ourselves, VAT in catering, tax discharges and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4465	Thank you. Dear colleague Zeljko Reiner, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleagues of Juričev, let me perhaps just two things to stress or supplement that you mentioned as positive in this whole tax reform because it is one thing not to stay in the air, which is the question of cleaning bank balances and deposing debts to both companies and individuals. There's been an impression that it's not actually going to work, that it's a measure on paper that doesn't have a chance of success. And when we look at it, or on the other hand, some claim that banks have sold their obligations to others. First, that's not true. They sold part of the commitment, I mean somewhere around a sixth, I think, if I'm not mistaken, and five-sixths haven't sold. Therefore, if this is resolved and the debt of citizens is managed, a huge undertaking has been created and has actually helped citizens, and has solved an administrative burden, a problem, etc. And the second thing I was going to say is, it's interesting how many people sitting here, who are great fighters against alleged neoconservatisms, and so represent their own approach, and they didn't mention that this law equalises the marriage and extramarital community, life partnership, informal life partnership, etc. And that's one civilization step forward. Well, now that he's done, no one mentions it anymore, and it doesn't seem to matter to those who represent it very much anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4467	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4468	Dear academician Reiner, I really didn't say anything about banks, namely my exposure I based more on tax taxes on tourism and real estate taxes, new income from local self-government units. When it comes to banks, he said everything and a lot of fellow Lalovac through numerous replicas there was a lot of it said, so I didn't want to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4469	Thank you. Replica number five, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4470	Dear colleagues, you have said that we welcome guests in hospitality, foreign tourists who spend easily, etc., in a way you have offended our pensioners. If you do not believe that they are really consummations to go to the City Cavanaugh in Zagreb Kavanaugh Dubrovnik every morning and you will see which guests are weighed in these cafes, regardless of what is there and the coffee shop together, they have their rituals. But know this coffee will pick them up a little bit. And I wouldn't say at all if they weren't welcome because they're filling in the registers of the caterers and the state budget all year, not just three months. And the hospitality is otherwise close to 50% of the total revenues from tourism. Therefore, be careful with the statements because not only are strangers desirable guests in the catering... perhaps you didn't want to say it. In any case, I've experienced it that way, maybe I'm particularly sensitive to the trembling hands that drink coffee and I can spill it, but in any case, they're desirable guests.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4471	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4472	Dear colleague Hrelja, my colleague Bacic told me to calm down. You've upset me very much because I really don't think or said that they're not desirable guests. I was just saying that those of our citizens who have salaries of up to two thousand kunas and our pensioners, I still think that with smaller incomes, unfortunately, they won't be touched by so much VAT increase in eating and drinking, I thought of them and I believe that we can all agree on that. And who are more desirable guests, I was talking about strangers. So when we talk about strangers, then we can say that those with better paying powers are more desirable guests. As far as our citizens are concerned, I have no dilemma at all, and I think we can agree that those with smaller incomes or pensioners or our citizens will be those who will benefit from these services and not bear the burden of tax reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4473	Now, here's a colleague of the Temple. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4474	We heard very well, fellow Members, you said those poor pensioners of ours with smaller salaries won't touch that gathering at the catering facilities. I didn't know that the goal of this whole reform was to completely detached the pensioners from the catering facilities, but here I am now from you, that's what you've now admitted. I've got to admit, it's a bit of a strange goal. It's supposed to be announced immediately so that the pensioners know this is directed against them. But this isn't just about the pensioners, this is about the young people you're about to cut off for the first real estate. However, this reform is not directed against everyone, it favors some. For example, it does. capital because there will be no more relief for reinvested profits, so capital will be able to keep that profit, they will go well unlike pensioners and those with small salaries and young people, but it will also help tax fraud because you're cutting off this tax returns and encouraging all those who think to earn something on tax fraud to keep on doing so, to continue to do business as for example. Our president who instead of paying taxes that money she was supposed to pay to the state, she gave it to your party. Here it is, for example. That... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now, therefore, she can also be calm now that the tax rescinds, that, that kind of thing no one will ever question again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4475	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4476	I have respect for your age and years of staying in this assembly, but I must say, this is demagogy. Given that during the SDP VAT has been increased from 23% to 25%, including catering services, including electricity, water prices, water compensation, gas and the like. Then where were those pensioners? Now I'm talking about catering services, eating and drinking, that's kind of what we have to admit to luxury, and I'm sure that pensioner of thousands of kunas doesn't have a thousand and a half pensions. And to him, if you should ask him who should bear the burden of this tax reform he will surely say and ask them all, he will say, I don't care, let, increase it, it's those who can. So I think it's demagogue to tell HDZ that you, from 23 to 25, have increased the price of electricity, water, gas and other things to those same pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4477	The next replica is distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4478	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, in your debate, you said that the reform is comprehensive and that income and profit taxes do not determine the height of the salary. And that's why I'm replicating you, so I'm giving you a proposal to launch an initiative to define and pay by the second reading, and that minimum wage because it was announced in the campaign because no stimulating measures, active employment measures, were able to get employers to raise that minimum wage to their employees and they themselves said that over 900 thousand people in Croatia are out of tax scissors, especially in our more underdeveloped regions in Slavonia, Baranja, Lica and Podravina, people work for salaries 2.5, 3.5 thousand kuna. And what's even more problematic for young people is that often, or somewhere around 40% of the work contract is at 6 months and a year and they keep repeating it for a certain time, they can't get a contract on work indefinitely. How to design through exactly these tax measures, stimulating measures for employers to hire young people indefinitely. Give an answer, and you will surely help young people in this way and certainly need to raise the minimum wage. And since you have already mentioned tourism and equal and regional development of Croatia, you are in Vodice and I congratulate on the good of your tourist employees, a large number of employees who come from Slavonia who are there waiters, cooks, maids and so on and like to come there but would also like to have a higher salary and support union representatives who are on the Committee on Tourism that must think about how to raise salaries for these workers because they can't do more of these jobs and therefore go to Germany and other countries outside Europe. And I invite you to come to Slavonia to help continental tourism because it is a form of solidarity and to devise active measures to bring tourists into continental tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4479	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4480	Dear colleague, we will agree with you all that we really need to raise the minimum wage, but this tax reform should lead us to economic recovery and it will also result in higher personal incomes and higher pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4481	Replica No. Eight esteemed fellow Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4482	Thank you very much. My colleague, you once mentioned in your debate, it means justice to equalize every obligor. How to even a taxpayer who has become a tycoon during privatisation, who has billions on his property cards, and we don't know how they got to them. So for that equality, one law should be called the origin of the property. So you'll have for sure coffee, yachts and transportation while it was bleeding for this country, while the banks were giving into other people's hands that the people were funding, and now, let's be realistic, the banks are going well again, the harrass over the poor. I'm saying this from my position or if I were in opposition, I'm saying what I'm thinking. While they are, I'll tell you an old, blue saying. From the mountain of Dalmatia, whenever there was a war, the rich gave the ox and the poor sons. And those who gave oxs who knew how well earned they created their empires and now they laugh and they will get more. This tax reform is done solely because of the cause, this is only the consequence of all governments and left and right and as long as national interests have been issued and these sons who have defended their country, persecuted, exclusively to court either bankers of the world or European officials or some of the heads of state who brought this country here. And that's the reality. So we can't tell the caterers, it's not easy for them, it's going to fall on them, it's going to fill the budget, it's true, it's true. So we have to pass a number of laws, it's not just tax reform and the key law would be, this is what I'm saying now as Miro Bulj from the ruling asset origin law, just look at the cards and you'll see how many millions there are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4483	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4484	Dear colleague Bulj, we will all agree here, and that is why there is a constitutional provision that criminal acts do not go out of date when it comes to privatisation. Here I would appeal to the authorities to comb all such privatisations because indeed there are many cities and municipalities on the ground, especially in the coast where such a procedure occurred, we have sent letters to the government, but we have not yet received any answers, not now in this government, but in the early days that all this is going well again because there are indeed all kinds of shops on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4485	The next replica is distinguished colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I agree with your debate on VAT in catering, we can also say tourism. And I personally think that in principle maybe we shouldn't give in to this pressure and that he should have stayed the same for everyone. Because if it was going to be reduced somewhere, then it should have been reduced in this rural area, where it really meant maybe the survival of many small hosts and the preservation of jobs, even though I don't think this amendment of the law is going to make it go away right now. And I definitely agree with your finding that that category of Croatian citizens who have fewer salaries certainly does not consume this part of hotel half boards and pensions. It's a fact, we can easily calculate it. Those Croatian citizens who go to these arrangements are in the category that has good income. What if we want to help the caterers I said yesterday, today I'm going to repeat, with this part of the reduction of the directorial costs means electricity, electricity prices, and waste the garbage, and before the water let's get a little tight in ZAMP, we're going to cut down on them by a lot of wheezing. We can help out differently but I don't practically share your optimism in that section regarding local self-government and the help of state bodies to local self-government in preparation for real estate tax. It is important to force state institutions such as the cadastre to be at the hands of local self-government because they shut our doors and harass us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4487	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4488	My colleague Hrg, I don't share optimism, but I made a request because all of us who are in charge of cities and municipalities know what the problem is. Therefore, it will not be easy if we do not have the state's assistance means both administrative, and human resources, assistance in the education of our staff available and, of course, it will not be possible to prepare all of this by 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4489	The tenth replica is Honored counterpart Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4490	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I share concerns as I believe, and a large majority of us who have certain experiences at local level. In addition to real estate tax, a new category of tax is introduced on unbuilt building land. If we accept that the substitution of municipal compensation is I think that it is rare or almost no one in the Republic of Croatia from municipalities and cities that have introduced so far and had the possibility under the Law on the municipal economy to tax construction land because there will be certain problems. That's what I've been talking about, but here's a little bit, I don't think it's in agreement with the Spatial Planning Act. It is necessary to correct the statement and above all, here is Article 35 of the Law on local taxes, the coefficient of the zone is determined depending on the convenience of the position, the communal equipment of a specific area according to its own conditions and criteria. What are their own terms and standards? Furthermore, the Spatial Planning Act speaks of what the municipal infrastructure does not mention the energy network. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The tax law, in fact, states these laws on local taxes item 14. There will definitely be problems and what I was saying and on the board of possible complaints. We all know how HEP works, you have to pay them the transfitter station and hand them over to the property so they can join the low voltage grid. I'm sorry there isn't, but I believe the Deputy Minister will also be directed to the Resort Ministry to give one more quality interpretation just to make it possible if this goes away, possible implementation in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4491	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4492	Dear fellow Batinić, here we fully agree that there will be problems when determining real estate taxes when it comes to buildings but not building land that I fear that or until the second reading we will have to give up because we already knew in earlier years of trying to tax such a thing and it was a failure. So I sincerely hope that the proposer of these laws will give up on it or at least postpone it again in a few years. All of this will not be possible until 1.1.2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4493	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juričev, I will refer to your part that you have discussed regarding the communal fee i.e. for the transformation of the municipal tax on real estate. This proposal even offers this part to the ministry as a compensatory measure in order to achieve greater revenues but we have been imposed on additional jobs that you yourself have found will require from our administrations that we engage more. However, there is also a question of the functioning of the smaller municipalities, and you asked the ministry for help, but I think we need the help of the ministry. Governments that those objects that are owned to measure them and that they can pay an adequate communal fee. But we believe that even these coefficients that are proposed for the calculation of the new communal fee see that they are at least some significant income from this example they have set for Opatija will not increase much. So in a year we'll be working on something where especially those cities and municipalities that have this updated that we won't have any bigger incomes. So we can't accept it as a compensatory measure. However, the government should be told how it will force those municipalities and cities, and we heard yesterday that 26 cities and municipalities, according to the State Audit report, have no public compensation at all. So, those who don't do their best should find a way to punish themselves, and those who have updated it today charge more than 90% of the communal fee to reward them in some way. What I support in this section is that three taxes that are paid on the property are united in one, each one is given. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4495	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4496	Tulio your Labin as well as my Vodice will surely be able to do something a little better with that part of the job. But small municipalities, I wouldn't say that they didn't want to charge the communal fee, but let's not forget that we have municipalities where we have another or two employees. Neither human resources nor financial resources were available, they offer too much of their municipal infrastructure because we know that the municipal compensation goes to all those of maintaining public lighting, green areas, deratization, fire departments and the like. Many of them do not have these small municipalities and therefore I have prayed and here again I appeal as you hear most colleagues who come from the head of the local self-government unit asking you for help to make this part of the job a quality and good job together.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4497	With this, we've exhausted the replicas and we're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4498	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I listened very carefully to yesterday's debates when you colleagues and colleagues just spoke for the clubs and really all day long until midnight at half past nine I listened to something that in certain words certain representatives were given the right to see how the reform was seemingly good and to those who said it was counterproductive. Of course at this point when individual representatives or clubs are in opposition, of course there is nothing else to expect. But I would like to point out that this is the biggest tax reform, based on amendments and additions to certain laws in the Republic of Croatia since the 1990s. So do we really not want to see, not know, not hear, and at the same time when we are talking about something we want the good of Croatia? I ask you what good it is if, in all these proposed measures, amendments to the tax law do not harm any measure other than those you apostrophephate, and I will do that. 97.8% of the measures are for the benefit of citizens, entrepreneurs of the Republic of Croatia. Isn't this tax change that concerns and profit tax from 20 to 18 and profit tax for those farmers who have total incomes of up to 3 million kuna of 12%, for the re-promotion for farmers of 13%, for all those other taxpayers, to say the benefits. Isn't that enough to say that this tax reform and this government of the Croatian Democratic Community, along with all those who support such tax reform, is not saying enough, that this is exactly a tax reform for the future of the development of the economy and for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I am aware once again that political officials and thinking do not tell you otherwise. But in your mind, it is felt that our Finance Minister Maric has convinced you of tax reform as well. Of course you don't want to admit it. But it's this little debate of yours that is present on both yesterday and today that says that you don't actually have an argument, that these very arguments concerning tax reform are saying that this is the best tax reform since the beginning of the Republic of Croatia. Not to look back on your reforms and changes to the laws that you have changed 44 times in your government and where you have put such uncertainty into the economy on the basis of tax changes that our foreign investment has fallen to the lowest level. They fell precisely because of your tax reforms and changes you did it to reject all potential investors. I'm asking you how it's possible to come to the Republic of Croatia a man with a certain capital, and he doesn't know how he'll handle his money. You introduced laws retroactively, taxed certain companies, and thus introduced one uncertainty and rejected investors. That is why there is no capital investment in Croatia today. The tax reform of the Croatian Democratic Community and Minister Maric together with our co-workers is about to do something different. We want to attract foreign investment, and that is how we want to ensure the future of our youngest, whom this reform is about, because it is our job as a parent to ensure our children's sustainability and future in the Republic of Croatia. We do not want our children to go to any other EU cities or countries. We want them to be citizens of their own country, to stay on their own economy, and thus we hire them in all those institutions where this will be possible through this tax reform tomorrow. We are sure that this reform is not entirely made and is not possible, but I am also sure that in the next period of time with this same goal we will continue and implement the reform in other segments as well. And I am sure that this further reform will improve this reform that we bring firsthand today. You resent and say, how we have strayed from certain measures, so dear gentlemen, this was just a proposal and a draft of certain changes and additions. Well, of course we've deliberately suggested certain things, now I'm telling you, and at the same time we knew we couldn't implement certain measures. Is that a problem? Is it a problem that we have held back and supported that VAT on bread, milk and other supplies used by citizens is 5%? Well, we gave it to you to have something to discuss, to have a fight with, and we knew we'd leave it behind, and we knew we wouldn't ask for an increase in VAT to 12%. Therefore, all these measures are going in one good direction. What you would especially like to say is local self-government. You are all wondering how and how you will draw up the budgets for 2017, so Minister Maric made it clear and loud to you how and how. And don't worry about it if you didn't give any guarantees when you were conducting tax reform, and this minister now says, I guarantee you that no local self-government will lose any of its budgets. Isn't that enough guarantee? The hospitality, since there isn't that much time, but I'll just say a few words. When it comes to catering, when the tax to 11 went down to 13 no one took off any price, no caterer rebelled. Look at the wonders. And now that you have to go back to 25 now is the problem. Well, you just go back to what was and there's no problem. When it comes to tourism subsidies, I will give you an example, my county of Požesko-Slavonska for tourism development gets 300 thousand kuna, and for example an Istrian county where I have a friend a lot and I am really glad that they developed in this way, gets 6 million. So how are we going to develop on the continent, gentlemen? How are we going to develop tourism on the continent when we've got nothing? On the other hand, we complain that the increase in VAT affects hospitality. It won't affect and nothing will change. And my colleague from Slavonia said the hospitality of Slavonia will be ruined. Well, they're not going to have a colleague with 11 or 13 or 25% of them. They'll do as they've done before. And the ones who have the most are the ones who are the ones who make extra profits, and they're complaining about it today. And just to say one more thing, since we have here a minister who, in the 2015 budget and 2016 budgets, has made a calculation and the Republic of Croatia's budget is visible that, for the first time in 20 years, they have reduced public debt, reduced deficits, increased GDP. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these changes in tax reform are just guaranteed, and Minister Maric himself guarantees that he has already shown this once, that he is the first in the Republic of Croatia to do so, make sure that these measures and changes in the tax law will really contribute to the development of the economy in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4499	Thank you. We have 17 replicas, so let's go. Dear colleague Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm a colleague of Lucic's. Let us all, no matter which side of this assembly we sit on, believe in our own eyes, not in other people's words. Let me remind you that from January 22nd, HDZ is the one who is in power, and we are on November 16th, and we have had two pre-election campaigns, and I must admit that I have largely seen this as a pre-election campaign of your rhetoric and the way you speak. But each of us has the right to speak as he pleases and as he believes we should. I understand that you're a little surprised when you have an opposition that wants to be constructive. An opposition like we said yesterday and we said we want to be a constructive opposition that we don't want to attack just to attack and get the light stage, but when we talk, we want to talk in a way that can make conclusions and that a quality law can be made out of it. And why is that? Because we care about this country, that we care about getting better in this country, and that every government that comes no matter what government makes it do something better. And the point is that every minister who comes in makes a move forward because that's the only way we can go forward. You in your discussion have actually called the opposition all the time which is soft to you, we should now go out with the banners, but there are some things where no matter what side of this assembly is being shown that there is something in the laws that should surely be changed. I appreciate that it goes into two readings for the simple reason that through two readings you get an incomparable quality solution so that, when all the ministries go through, we'll also get a better solution. But dear fellow, let us all believe in our eyes and what we see, not your words and your rhetoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4501	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4502	My fellow Members, I truly appreciate your constructive same debate and your contribution as the CNS in the previous government where you have also advocated the development of a particular economic initiative. But I was deliberately referring to your work because you're making a lot of criticism about these tax changes and additions to these laws. And I'm sure of what I was saying. Your promises in the previous government and these promises I have shown you in a picturesque way that exactly the previous budget for 2016, where the aim was to reduce public debt, deficits, increase GDP for the first time in 20 and a few years has worked. That was the goal of saying, not disdaining either you or the HNS or the SDP, but people are talking about who did what, who promised what. So here I was talking in this light, and I'm sure we're going to contribute to a better and faster development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4503	Dear colleague Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4504	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you said or started from not taking any measures to harm but for the benefit of Croatian people, but that we still have unfounded criticism of the proposal. That is why perhaps to avoid it and to explain some things, what has not been said or spoken much about it is that VAT is calculated and paid at a reduced rate of 5% and for books of professional, scientific, cultural, cultural, educational content, textbooks for teaching and education, for primary schooling, secondary and higher education, the Law on all physical forms states. For common sense, it is clear what is a physical form because it healthyly includes digital form, meaning e-book. But just so that there is no such interpretation, or false interpretation, or interpretation, I think it would be good if the legislator of the law in another reading or put it to refer to the physical and digital forms of the book so that there are no false interpretations, or that the interpretation of this item interprets what is meant by it, because the clear thing if there is something already in this healthy logic and SBN number, that it is a book regardless of which form is further e-book or in conventional form of books. So it may be about the little things, but I think they explain the intensity of these changes, and in what direction, they should go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4505	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4506	Comrade Tudjman, I truly appreciate what you said first because you must have far better insights than me. But generally when I was talking, I thought first of all that this proposal was going into two readings and that you and your proposals and all those other proposals that concern and certain tax changes would certainly happen. But the goal is that we gave one of the really biggest tax reform and that just before and before this debate we discussed certain things and we said, we're not going in this direction and now we're going to also, especially until the second reading this clears everything and also make certain changes. I would also advocate even greater changes in certain products. But today and none of you here have spoken to me, everyone has said how to change, reduce, it's mostly about the reduction but no one has asked Minister Maric and how will you make it up to you on the other side? So we have a cut but on the other hand we won't have for certain things we have to pay and someone here was saying, of course pensions are the biggest cost of our budget over 35 billion. Yeah, if we cut down, we just have to say on the other side where we're going to increase it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4507	Thank you. The third replica is the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4508	Dear fellow Lucic, the number of articles in these 15 laws can be, I say, proportional to the quality of these laws. So quantity doesn't necessarily have to give quality. And you must, given that we have been able to deal with criticism for a long time that critics and your steps or packages think nothing bad about the state and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, however, that their task is also to improve the functioning of the system. I must tell you that the path to hell is also paved by good intentions and good intentions are not enough and that new injustices will never be able to correct old injustices, old injustices exist in the tax system, here we see new injustices, old injustices exist in the tax system, here we see new injustices that are done especially by giving to those who have the most, which means that we are deviating from social justice in this society that, so we are destroying society so that individuals will have. And the last thing I wanted to say, please don't repeat what you said about you letting the citizens' test balloons get their bread and milk. So now I can charge you from this stage with causing psychophysical pain to the poorest in Croatia. Don't say that, it's posted on the websites of an esteemed institution of the Republic of Croatia and it's the tax administration. If it's politics, if politics is conducted through the tax administration, then you've pissed at us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4509	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4510	It's not a tax administration policy, it's my thinking, Mr. Hrelja. And she was exclusively, when I said so, spoken here to you who I knew would thus criticise as you have grasped the measure, the tax increase as well as the hospitality. So don't talk about social policy. You might feel better, and you see you're making me answer you now how and in what way did you implement social policy during your government towards the pensioners? None, you've lost. These same pensioners did not give you a vote so that you today would rule in the Republic of Croatia you and your party and your coalition partner SDP. Therefore, don't talk about social policy because you got the best possible answer in parliamentary elections. You're not in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4511	The next replica is distinguished counterpart Milorad Batinic. Don't throw it away, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4512	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Lucic, each of us has a way of discussing, someone speaks louder, someone with more emotions and someone with less. But here I'm gonna try to convince you that what we said we'd be constructive what we wanted. First of all, these changes and additions to this package of tax laws, you are celebrating with great reform. In my view, these are amendments and additions to tax laws that we can call partial reform. If you had introduced it, you would have suggested the introduction of a property tax and then it would have been a reform. You are introducing a real estate tax, a new burden on Croatian citizens in terms of tax on construction land not built up by the Constitutional Court, which I believe was put out of force in 2007. You're going back with it, you haven't learned anything, not you personally, but the party. That's one thing. The second thing, you're not credible in terms of the proposed package, you're not credible for what reason? You mention in the Income Tax Act, and you're asking us to believe that I don't repeat what my colleague Mrak-Taritash said we're not going to believe, because we don't want to believe because the job of a parliamentary representative any position, whether we try it or not, we need to see what it says and it has to be voted here. For the record, we've been through too long, and we've been in politics too long to believe. I might have trusted Minister Maric, so I also trusted Minister Maric and believed in one piece and Prime Minister Plenkovic unless they changed it in the order of circumstances and coalitions in which they are. And that's why I don't believe it when he comes to Parliament, when he votes something then I can say I believe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4513	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4514	I'm so glad that we've been here for a long time and we know each other, but I'll tell you that this is not a proportional reform, this is a 1 billion circus and 600 to 2 billion kuna. This is not small money that the Ministry of Finance and the state of Croatia has denied for the benefit of citizens and entrepreneurs. But here I am not targeting you again, but your government where you were sitting, so SDP. You know how many laws you've passed? So much so that the Constitutional Court has brought all these laws down on you. So let's not talk about legality, because you were just the government that did the opposite work where you, with one boast and force, wanted to pass laws where the Constitutional Court brought it all down for you. We will indeed lead and lead in HDZ today along with our partners a policy that will indeed benefit citizens and economies because there is no economy, there is no future and you were in the economy, so you know what that means.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4515	Replica, dear colleague Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lucic, I was encouraged by your statement that Mr. Minister has assured us of the goodness of this tax reform. I must admit that Mr. Secretary didn't convince me even though he has the capacity for such a thing but you've convinced me with your brilliant exposure. And I propose to Mr. Minister that you be hired as a person who will explain to all this people and Croatia all the benefits of this reform that it will bring to the citizens of Croatia, and you can explain to them how you, with all the money that the state later gets these good things, will give those 1000 euros for newborns you promised through some reform or have given up on it, already send me away and I don't follow what you said and what you gave up. I wrote down two wonderful things you said. As you say, at one point, you've completely messed up the pots, breaking pots because they don't complain rich because of this reform. Unfortunately, they are wisely silent and wait to get what they will get with this reform. They're moaning the poor, because this superhic reform of yours takes these poor people to give to the rich. And what's said in this assembly right out of the HDZ ranks is paying back some debts. The second thing, the brilliant thing about the trial balloon and 5% taxes on bread and sugar. Maybe it's a little unpopular, but we can only thank MOST why that tax as such remains. Not to the HDZ and not to you, but to a colleague from the MOST who still has a leg on the ground who understands the situation this country is in and has pulled out by hand and stopped. If it had been up to HDZ, that tax would have gone a long way and it wouldn't have been a test balloon. Therefore, do not say in this assembly what is not true. And in the end, if this is the beginning and the real initial reform I can only say that by morning you know each other. If this is the morning, then I can tell you to save us the God of your future reforms we're about to receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4517	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4518	A colleague in a few days or a few months cannot be reformed without previous authorities or parties or governments, especially when I was talking about agriculture destroying it. You may not have been and have not been in previous meetings of the Croatian Parliament, and I am sure you do not know how and how a certain policy has been conducted according to certain activities. But this policy that you've just implemented has caused so much damage not to take us a few months to get back in and out of tax reform, and the economy, and the growth of domestic product, and the reduction of deficits and the reduction of public debt. You don't have to trust Minister Maric, but trust me because you said I made an impressive impression on you. I trust Minister Maric, and I'll tell you again. This budget for 2016 for the first time reduced public debt, deficit and increased gross domestic product. Doesn't that give you enough hope to believe in Minister Maric's tax reform?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4519	Replica number six, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4520	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Lucic, here we have now heard that the issue of tax reform is a matter of faith, so that's a religious question. We also heard from Mr Lucic that 97 to 98% of tax reform is good. I'd like to ask you how you calculated this percentage, by which methodology, and I'm also interested, given that you've found that 2 to 3% are not good that 2 to 3% of these are not good, so maybe that part, to guide us to fix that part. And among other things, you said that you advocated that young people don't move to other cities, even though I don't see the problem. But the question is whether the property tax is the first one to encourage that measure, whether it protects young families or not. I definitely don't think so. You also said that, that this tax reform encourages investment. However, whether the elimination of reinvested profits facilitates investment or abolishs investments. In my opinion, there they go. In the end, you scored with great success that the VAT on milk remains 5% because you were just scaring the citizens. However, whether VAT on milk is 5, 10 or 0% if you have previously destroyed all Croatian dairy. If the purchase price of milk is such that people have to sell out all cows and close down their OPGs and properties. So basically, this reduced VAT has the benefit of possibly French Lactalis, which is conveniently called Dukat and, in fact, it doesn't sort of solve anything. That's the short notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4521	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4522	My colleague, listening to your debates from the beginning of this House, has not quite noticed except for the demagogy that you really want to stand up for the right attitudes in the economy. The way I came to the calculation I didn't do any math, that common sense concludes. Based on these tax reforms, it is visible if you go from item to item and from law to law you see what essentially the Ministry of Finance proposes to us to accept, whether it is good or not for the economy. So have I been telling you this one more time where we haven't affected the agricultural situation in the past four years? So ask your colleagues here on the right why there are no 68,000 dairy producers but 4,000 dairy producers. Is that what we used to do? I was chairman of the Agriculture Committee for four years, I warned Minister Jakovina that this Croatian agriculture and Croatian peasants would lead to ruin. And as you can see, everything happens. So we just want to do this tax reform one part of it to correct that injustice, but we have to do it in the next period of time because we are aware that we cannot make even greater reforms at this point. We're going to have to make sure to reduce the VAT on our producers' agricultural products tomorrow, so that it's the same 13% of the examples I'm just talking about, as is the entry re-promatter. Yeah, then our peasants would put us in a competitive position and not put him in this situation where he's in today. So what have we just done in the last four years? Nothing. Our agriculture sinks, sinks and sinks, and we warned about it, we held press conferences. It wasn't worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4523	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished counterpart Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4524	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lucic, I have listened carefully to your debate and it belongs to the section believe it or not. You have denied yourself several times during your debate. Telling you a sentence in this House gave you deliberately false information that you had something to talk about. Then you're talking about your promises and our promises. Was your campaign promises on purpose to talk to me about something? After that you say that no measure is going to harm the citizens, that the safety of our youngest is your priority, that you do not want the young to leave the Republic, that it is your duty as a parent. And then you're introducing a tax on first real estate. Your colleague asked you earlier what you thought about it, you were talking about agriculture. You did not answer the question whether the introduction of a tax on first real estate is a measure that will stop young people from leaving Croatia or not. I'm asking you to answer that now and don't start talking to me about agriculture and the former governments. Second question. You say VAT in catering won't change anything and that they're complaining about the ones who have the most money, which is what they wanted. Then you left a 13% VAT team that you think has the most, and you introduced it into hospitality, you raise it up to hospitality that won't affect their business. You're full of contradictions! Don't underestimate us. I'm asking you to answer what I just asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4525	Reply to the replica of fellow Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4526	I'm not a co-worker. Hotels also deal with rooms, nights, but also with a catering offer. So it applies to both of us. When you talk about tax on first real estate, so I would ask you to take out here in the tax administration how many apartments have been bought over the past four years just by your incentive means and to see what the general financial effect is. Well, Mr. dear and colleague, so today a young man can't buy an apartment because he doesn't work, because he's unemployed, there's no income, no parents care about him, or if I can't take care of his parents, then go to another country. Yes, these are the basic effects with which the Ministry of Finance was probably being led and what I said was my view that this particular increase in basic food tax is perhaps a bait to discuss, but that's my thinking. This is not the thinking of either the HDZ or the ministry or the minister. I merely cited it as an example, and it's no provocation to the citizens, but it's my personal thinking. And you're basically caught up with that, and you're holding on to an increase in VAT on hospitality, and basically you're always spinning the same thing, and that's all you're talking about is nothing else. Yesterday all day and today too. What's he saying? Well, that says you don't have any big objections to this tax reform and that you agree with it, that's my conclusion. And what you're saying isn't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4527	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4528	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lucic, first you gave me hope, and now that hope is gone when you said that this was spin with 5% I was looking forward to it, and it's probably this one with a spin and the wave will still stay at 13%. I disagree with you that this is not a problem in Slavonia, is, you will see that this is a problem in Slavonia when the final reckoning comes, so when you see the tax total tax that people should pay. And I'm telling you with the traffic of maybe a thousand kuna a day, that's a serious problem. Of course I'm not just talking about Slavonia, so tourists in the Adriatic have invested some money, created foundations to raise tourism to a higher level. And now he's right, fellow Djujic, now we tell the hotelers to keep them at 13%, which is not in any way fair. And yet to tell you in a vivid way, a lot of things don't have to be fair and it doesn't mean that the tax system is stable if it doesn't change because the boat is somewhere in a port if it's long standing it's stable, but its bottom is rotting. So the tax system must respond to the problems and conditions of its time or environment on the one hand, of course we should make it easier for entrepreneurs to reduce the tax rate, but on the other hand, we must think of the bankruptcy rights of all citizens living in this country so that those acquired rights remain in order not to lose them. And let me just give you an example. On the one hand, it is suggested that when you say that we have no concrete remarks, here is a concrete observation. On the one hand, it is proposed to increase excise duty on personal vehicles that I think are somewhere within a 90-g limit per kilometre of CO2 emissions to the environment. This way people are punished when buying personal cars will have to pay a higher price. It's the cheapest cars most of the time, let's say Dacia. On the other hand, a reduced rate of re-promaterial tax is introduced in agriculture. And you know what the biggest contaminants are? Among other things, agriculture. So one criterion when we talk about environmental pollution is used for personal vehicles and is not applicable to agriculture. Of course it's me, I'm not against reducing VAT in agriculture, but you can't look at tax solutions unilaterally.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4529	Reply to the replica of fellow Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4530	I have to answer, I didn't think I was answering, but since you're also a resident of Slavonia, and I also know the situation, you're saying that a thousand kunas will be less in the register based on a tax change than this system. So he has a thousand kunas of total income today, not that he will be reduced by a thousand kunas. So that's the word itself saying how much this hospitality and how many restaurants and those who deal with such activity have traffic. Well, they, I said in my presentation, stares empty both with 10 and with 11 and with 13 and with 25%, they won't lose anything. So I'm not going to talk about these excise duties. And you didn't mention that, let's say, the law that is just being proposed by the excise tax law, let's say for wine, gives a delay in payment. Are you aware in the past time period that many companies have gone into large tax debt precisely because of excise duties, which they could not pay if they did not pay in time from their buyer, and today this government and this bill allow them to pay the excise fees, and thus, while collecting their claims, they will be able to pay the fees. You don't want to talk about it. You're talking about cars that are practically a minor item in everyone's so-called and the question of who's buying a new car from such people today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4531	Next replica, dear colleague Mladen Majer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4532	Dear fellow Lucic, you said in your statement that this tax reform is something great for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but I just don't know if it's great about local taxes that a household with this law-making although we've heard that it might change that there will be no tax on unbuilt land in the construction area. Just an example, that a rural household means in the rural part, for example. At the fee of a thousand kuna with this tax on unbuilt land will be tax somewhere from 30 thousand kuna, so 30 times larger. Now I don't know how good it is for all the rural part, the rural part. And you also mentioned for local self-government, where you told local self-government that Minister Maric had promised to bring the regional and local self-government into line in the budget. But we are in the local self-government aware that the former SDP government has proposed the same thing about the mining rent regulation, that the increase in the use of the mining rent will be more revenue in the municipality's budget, but this has not happened where small municipalities have been killed again. I'm so afraid that this, too, was just a promise from the Minister of Finance, that the small municipalities and the rural part will again suffer the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4533	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4534	My colleague, in my presentation, I was just saying that there was a first and second reading. So who says that based precisely on our thinking, perhaps the Ministry of Finance and the minister himself will not conclude that tax, building land may not be in that amount or will not be at all. So that's why we have this particular debate to make our proposals to all our constructive proposals. There are amendments you may also be investing in, so let's be optimistic and let's not conclude today that this is over, nothing is over. And as for local self-government and the ministers' promises, here I believe that precisely by the basis of these tax changes and the comprehensive law, local self-government will still be on the verge that in 2016 we will make a proposal to calculate how it will be in 2017. I am convinced on the basis of the minister's statement that local self-government will be satisfied and that this entire cost that will make up for the tax administration and that it will miss going to the burden of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4535	Thank you. And the next replica, dear colleague Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4536	Dear counterpart Lucic, the state policy statement is based on exact calculations of long-term effects. Isn't it strange to you, and is it really a state policy statement and it concerns young people, those who should be the bearers of economic and social progress in our country, the abolition of tax exemptions to the first real estate. You can try and talk as much as you want, but in the long run, it doesn't go to the benefit of demographic restoration, it doesn't go to the benefit of the most intelligent policy and not to prevent the emigration of young people. While you're talking about tourism so much, it's no wonder that the whole of Europe recognizes the need for a low rate of tax for the caterers, they all have 10%, we're now suggesting 25% and you say in the long run that it will boost investment and employment. It'll happen the other way around, all the opposite of what you're saying. And as a third thing, when you're already using data from the Croatian Tourism Development Fund, then tell them to the end, that the entire Croatian Tourism Development Fund, Istria is paying itself more than 60%, that it returns 35% and that you are the representative of Požega-Slavon County in that fund are paying 0 kuna. And when you mention the quality of life of citizens in Istria, then I'll tell you this, that the people of Istria are hardworking, working, working two jobs and let them all start working in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4537	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4538	I said in my presentation that I had many friends in Istria but I didn't think that you would insult especially the people of Slavonia who are the most valuable and valuable people in the Republic of Croatia, I say responsibly. In order for you to offend someone, you cannot identify, that your sea is yours, that it is not mine, that it is not from these people who come from the continent, it is not just you people who are in Istria or in any other city of the Republic of Croatia, so in the southern part of Croatia. So don't identify it as yours, it's ours, it's ours and it can't be yours. And don't, once again, I'm telling you to recruit people in Slavonia because it's a people who have suffered in the past, who defended the Republic of Croatia, who stood on the defender of the Republic while you were sleeping, sir, and don't insult those people. And don't insult those people. ... I beg you, because we Slavons are the ones who stopped the aggression in Croatia [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder Jandroković: I beg you, I beg you.]] [[Intruder Jandroković: Hello, slowly, just a little please.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4539	Just a minute please, I beg you, just a minute, please, please. I ask you to calm your passions and don't insult each other because there's no reason to talk about tax reform, let's not cause evil blood, regional division, because it's really not in anyone's interest. So I'm asking you to calm down your passion and without the hard words. And don't throw your colleagues out of the bench. The next replica is a distinguished colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4540	I thank the chairman. My colleague at the SDSS Club, we think this tax reform should have been addressed, but we do, I personally have certain... So I'd like you to help me if you could shed some light on things for me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, the European semester is otherwise an instrument of supervision and the Republic of Croatia was required to develop a national reform programme by order of the European Semester. The national reform programme was made and delivered to the government sometime in the 4th month of this year and adopted. And in that national programme, it is defined to enter tax reform in a way that will be passed, to prescribe real estate tax. So, we have a little maneuvering space here, real estate tax is already fixed. I ask the question how are we going to apply it in 2018 when we have an unsettled situation in the cataster, when we have unsettled grants, when the legalisation is not finished. This is one big dilemma and one, so one fundamental question is how we will operationally implement what we have promised the European Union. The second thing in the Proposal for a Law on Transport of Real Estate Tax in Article 15, where it is defined who does not pay real estate tax in paragraph 6, is said to be of which, of these obligations, are excluded property acquirers in the conversion of social property into other forms of ownership. So my dilemma is why someone who has entered privatisation and acquires certain values is free of tax and we charge everyone else even to ordinary people for any traffic of real estate. Because here we see that many entities are exempt from paying real estate taxes except for an ordinary citizen who is able to buy something.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4541	Thank you. Reply to the replica of fellow Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4542	A colleague is a complex question but be sure that together with you where you want to do the same, I will also fight together to make certain obligations that we have both given and ended. So be assured that my help in solving this problem will certainly be of benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4543	Thank you. The next replica is a distinguished colleague of Martha Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4544	Thank you. Dear Representative Lucic, you have announced this reform as the best reform ever adopted, and what this reform foresees is the abolition of the reinvested profits, it is the abolition of the first real estate relief, it is the abolition of the right to a personal deduction for persons living on their own property, it is an increase in salaries for those who have large salaries, then leaving a general VAT rate even though in all parliamentary elections in the last 10 years you have promised a reduction in VAT and at a small door you are trying to abolish the taxIN. So now, given your exposure, which you stated was all of this, that you gave most of the information incorrect so that we could discuss them. I'm asking you this taxing thing that I'm saying is it a serious tax reform now, or are we just gonna discuss it and you're gonna give it all up in the end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4545	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4546	My colleagues obviously didn't listen because I didn't say it was an incorrect proposal for tax reform, and I said once again that this is the biggest tax reform of changes and addition of the law since 90. Well, if you didn't listen well, I'm just saying it one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4547	The next replica is dear colleague Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4548	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucic, you recently asked us to address you as an institution in the golden valley, so I will turn to you as an institution of intelligence, the more you brought one great contribution to Croatian language, which is that you recently invented one word on HTV, which is apostolytes. So I'm going to say something about your apostolics. Namely, when you talk about the well-being of Croatian and Croatian citizens, when you talk about the future of young people and our children, when you talk about their bread and milk, and you put it in the context of last time, I think you should also say that there was no selective justice in the Ministry of Defence, Tax Administration, Croatian Forests, MUP, TUP, PUP and how you want to do your job. If there had been no godfather and godfather from Kosorica, Shuker, Beuka and to the tandem of Jakovina-Pavalić. You couldn't so heartlessly turn 12 million defense loans into your pockets, you couldn't roll millions and millions of kuna taxes and you couldn't savagely rob Croatian forests and certainly destroy hundreds of jobs. That's it. And we couldn't show the middle finger in this Croatian Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4549	Reply to the replica of fellow Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4550	Agent Ronko, you've just told all your lies by telling yourself, just by telling you and your desire to make me a businessman a criminal can shame you. I've spent every tax institution on your account because you've been scolding me for 15 years, but you can't do anything because I'm right in full, because I've been proving my property on the largest tax institutions of the PKK, tax crimes for which you've haunted me for 15 years, and all the people here in this House know that. And what's the effect? My incomes that I've documented at all levels are far greater than expenditures and you've been serving here for years with lies and you want me as a man, my family you've been insulting for years and your political influence to put on my name and last name and you haven't succeeded in it. Look, I'm saying you failed because I proved exactly that all you're saying is lies. And one more thing, your political sin that you cannot justify before your voter during the SDP. HDZ and I, as the chairman of the county board, have defeated you at all levels of cities and municipalities and no longer exist in Požega-Slavon County. And that's why you've been scrambling at me for 15 years, and I've proved before this body that everything you've been accusing me of isn't true. And now I'm saying it here. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4551	Please don't throw it away, and I don't think the whole debate was appropriate, so we don't go on each other's charges, talk about tax reform. I'm asking you to hold on to that and the word has a distinguished colleague, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let's get back to tax reform. You spoke about VAT in this part of hospitality and tourism and mentioned Slavonia. I will state here that we really don't need to share it regionally together because the same problems are in my Prigorje, Moslavina and Bilogori, and in Lika, and in Podravina, Međimurje, Zagorje anywhere else, as well as the Dalmatian Zagorje. So I agree in one part with you that perhaps you should definitely not have gone to that measure at all, but rather the earlier VAT reduction because now, of course, when something is reduced, if you want to put it back so that all those who are covered in it are rebelling. But about what you were saying, I just want to apostrophe one part about continental tourism. So, one sin from the time of the last government, not these past few months but those before is the abandonment of continental tourism in the Tourism Development Strategy. That's a fact. And this very continental tourism should also enable agricultural production and sales of these agricultural products and the preservation of life in rural areas. And that's why it's personal to me, really, really, really here, and so I started to discuss yesterday the initiative that, since it's already been envisaged, rural tourism is certainly being introduced into this category of lower VAT because it's not just rural tourism as a hospitality, not only for accommodation but also for food services, but it's actually in the overall part that the food produced in the agricultural economy is sold to guests. And that's why it would be very good for me to put it on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4553	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4554	I was just talking about it, and I asked how it could be a balanced development of Croatia if my county of Požeško-Slavonska got to develop tourism 300 thousand kuna and another county that was developed as a colleague said gets 6 million. So what is the even development of Croatia? How and how will we develop this very continental tourism? Not at all. How and how will we sell agricultural products? Not at all. When the guy downstairs buys potatoes at the hotel I don't know where, and he won't buy them from Međimurje, he won't buy them from Slavonia. How and in what way do you combine blue and green? Well, we've been talking about it for years, and nothing happened. Well, I guess there's a chance now that through this tax reform and this government of the Republic of Croatia, it's been initiated by our minister sitting here in the Parliament in the past term just to combine such agricultural production in the continental part with those people who are in tourism because every year you see us increasing the number of tourists. It would be logical to finally understand and to give ourselves the task of producing in Slavonia and Baranja and Međimurje and in all other parts of Croatia not to be able to feed the Croatian people, it can still feed three times as many tourists. This must be our goal, it must be our task, and in this way we will also expand and develop the continental part of Croatia, and today it is indeed at the lowest levels and the question of how and how this peasant will survive, or we will ultimately import more than 2 billion euros in food today. Maybe we'll import four. So is this the future of Croatia? That's how we're going to ensure survival on the continental part. I'm sure I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4555	Thank you. The next is a replica of a respected colleague, Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lucic, I must stand in defense of the caterer. You obviously don't realize that we're a tourist country. You do not realize that hospitality is an integral part of the tourist offer. I think it's very important to us as a state. Tourism contributes to a large part of our GDP and it is not something we can only play with. You said it's mostly hotelers who make extra profits. So ask your tourism minister when you can catch him what he thinks about these hotels that make extra profits? Well, that's exactly the categories of hotels we've worked so hard to get to Croatia. Well, that's what makes our tourism industry competitive and catering, meaning a catering extra-pansion offer that has to follow that hotel offer, so these people are also investors. They were counting at a certain VAT rate. So they hired people, increased, improved their offer, expanded their capacities. So what now? Now we're taking them off, so we're increasing from 13 to 25%. And the question is, what happens now? They'll probably have to fire people. You say they didn't do anything, they didn't change it, it's not for a nice cheap favor. Well, maybe they invested right in improving the offer. Cut the branch we're sitting on. It's not a big deal. You can't look at it so banal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4557	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4558	Obviously, the two of us colleagues don't understand each other. First of all, I have nothing against tourism. However, I have nothing against the caterer, but I object that continental tourism does not exist and that it disappears from day to day, to force only one kind of tourism, and continental tourism dies. But you may not know, sir, that the growth of tourism and the greater its participation in the gross domestic product poses a danger to the Republic of Croatia. There is a need to develop the economy much faster and more in a different sense. Tourism, yes. God forbid it's even bigger. But don't let God make an example of Turkey or anything like that happen to you. So I'm asking you what's going to be the disturbances in the state budget? And it is the growth of the economy that provides security and guarantees for the economic development and survival of people. Tourism is great. But at a certain point, let unwanted things happen to you. I'm asking you that. It will crash to a whole second level, and that is a danger to both the state budget and to us all in Croatia. The real-sector economy is the cornerstone of the development and sustainability of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4559	Sixteenth Replic, distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Lucic, I agree with you in one part of your debate that this proposal for tax reform has some light moments or points, but I cannot agree with your view that the implications of this tax reform will be positive or that there will be no negative impact on the local budgets of units of local and regional administrations and self-government. Very soon, local budgets will show that they will experience the effects of the cold knife of this tax reform. Secondly, I find it amazing that the amount of contempt you have shown for the catering workers by trying to justify an unwarranted raise of taxes on catering activities, so you reduced it to one level as well as a reduction in the tax on catering activity of 25 to 13% did not result in a reduction in prices. However, do not forget that the reduction in VAT on catering services has resulted positively from, say, ten thousand more employees, with more than two thousand catering companies that have been established over the past few years, and the caterers will be forced to raise the price of services that our citizens will eventually receive, and on the other hand they will have to reduce investments, they will have to cut salaries, some of them will have to put out their trades and fire. So I don't really understand what the need to embellish certain things is if they're not real like that. My colleague Pernar was talking here the other day about blue and red pills, but I see that when you speak to this side of the tax reform assembly, it has increased the consumption of pink pills that want to show the real ones that she isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4561	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4562	I'm glad you're okay with my exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4563	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague, Marco Vedligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4564	Thank you, Chairman. Here's a colleague, I must say, you had a very inspired debate in this whole tax reform that I have a grudge against even though you mentioned on several occasions that there are no objections at all. But in this replica, I will look back as the head of the local self-government on your finding that Minister Maric explained everything to the local self-government and that nothing is lost, and through the very changes in income tax we see that local self-government will have a loss, will have it on promise, will comment on the basis and will remain on the same level as it was in 2016, so we will preserve the state of the existing one we have. But I'm asking you here now, what about 2017, what about potential growth? Do you think that local units also have the right to participate in the potential of growth and employment growth that we all expect in 2017 because if we are to compensate for this loss that we have in 2016 we will actually remain at the same level? Let's let the income tax go now, but the company's tax is a visible loss, 120 million for local units, and we don't have any compensation measures here. To relieve the economy, to relieve citizens as you said for their well-being, but also for the benefit of citizens, I guess even when you take local self-government because it means it will be less for kindergartens, it will be less for municipal infrastructure and everything else in the domain of local self-government. To end the genius of this reform that you have called the biggest reform since the 1990s, I think it speaks enough of the deadline that we are discussing because mature countries would discuss it much longer, they would see that reform from different angles and then decide on it because it is a reform that has some long-term consequences. And like this, the good things that exist in it, unfortunately, will probably remain a gunshot to the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4565	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4566	My friend, I appreciate your contribution to the local administration. I was the mayor of a small town for 12 years, and I know very well, and we felt it on our backs just this measure and the damage you've done to local self-government for the rule of the SDP. As far as income tax is concerned, these changes and additions of the local self-government unit will feel the return of money that will be missing in 2016, and the minister himself said it is fully burdening the Ministry of Finance. In 2016, a budget will be made in 2017 to see which category of certain cities, counties belong to, and in what way it will be done in the future, but then in 2017 we will be able to talk with certainty about the measures for 2018 and with which units of local self-government will be able to count and based on which to base and calculate the budget of certain units of local self-government for 2018. You know, I've been in this House a long time, and I've felt just from the government of the SDP parafiscal intrusion. We were just saying that we need to cut back, but they were just doing things differently with their tax reform. They killed the meaning of the economy, they killed entrepreneurs who wanted to come to Croatia, they refused them, they went to Serbia, they went to BiH and that's why we don't have capital investments today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4567	Thank you. With this, we have exhausted all the replicas of the presentation of our esteemed colleague Lucic. You can rest a little, and we are moving on to a new individual debate, it is a respected colleague, Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4568	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, respected colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. First of all, I would like to say that in a deficit situation and such a large external debt, it is very difficult to plan tax reform, while at the same time retaining its social component, and that we can plan development through such a thing and that certain sectors do not feel affected. I also want to congratulate the teams that have been working on this tax reform, because I still think that in the end and when we finish all this debate and I believe that you will respect the proposals and objections that I have heard quite correctly and that this reform will ultimately be the best possible reform at this point. As far as tourism is concerned, I share the thinking of those that the catering sector is really affected by such a measure and that in the following year, though, it should consider returning tax rates to that level at which it was now and thus try to compensate for what was lost and, of course, through enhanced surveillance measures and certain measures that these revenues that will be lost in this way in the state budget are somehow compensated. I may present a dozen proposals, concrete proposals to amend existing legal rules and certain regulations and decisions. Of course, consider this only as constructive suggestions, I ask you to write them down, and of course you will consider them, and we will see what can be respected through another reading, so I expect that opposition proposals will also be respected. So first of all, I want to show myself about the Income Tax Act. Therefore, Article 17(1) of that proposal provides for a restriction of the income that a dependent member of the family cannot cross in order to be considered a tax relief. So instead of the current 13 thousand kuna, now that's 12 thousand and 500 kuna and that's gross. I believe that a person with a 1042 kuna gross income cannot live a month without the help of family members and therefore it would be good if this amount had been established within a slightly larger limit. In addition, paragraph 2 of the same Article states the receipts which do not enter the prescribed limit but which do not include the receipts of donations for medical needs. So I believe that when, for example, a person collects donations for the purchase of drugs, she should not lose the status of a dependent member of the family. Now I want to show myself to the question of the unproven origin of the property. So far, this disproportionate rate has been taxed at 40% and from now on, it will be taxed at a rate of 36%, at a regular highest rate. In my opinion, it is practically a message to the secretors in a certain way that they can continue their activities because if they are caught they will practically pay the rates, the tax at the highest rate at which they can even pay it. And I think that this tax should be at least 50% because it is still a secret income, and I think that also significant revenues in the state budget could be achieved at such a higher rate. In addition, Article 89(8) of the deadlines which can be verified are reduced to only 6 years, so the time-limit of the old General Tax Code. According to the old law, such property could be checked since 1.1.2005 and I do not believe that, in this case at all, the process of detecting that kind of illegal origin of the property should not set the deadlines in which it should be kind of checked. As regards the income tax rules to be adopted in accordance with the new law, we also suggest that, instead of the deadline so far, a 48-hour JOPPD form should be introduced, because we think that this will also be more significant to relieve entrepreneurs. In addition, given the burden on entrepreneurs to pay the profit tax advances and also the income tax, I believe, according to last year's obligation, that in the event of a downturn, the change in e-tax tax advances should be made possible by electronic means in the e-tax system on the same day instead of the written application and the long-term administrative procedure. If not amending and supplementing the law, then it is certainly suggested that this be done by the minister to the relevant rules, i.e. their amendments and additions. The amendments and additions to the law on fiscalisation in cash, bonds for the use of chargers also become small taxpayers. I believe that the purchase of chargers will create unnecessary costs for certain categories such as small tenants of rooms or people who carry out household work, so I think it would be a better solution to introduce this obligation only for certain categories of small taxpayers where it really is the expiry of a larger amount of cash such as. those who do excursions to ships or taxi services etc.. Moreover, as regards the adoption of a new Tax Administration Act, an appropriate regulation should be adopted allowing for two-way communication between entrepreneurs and the tax administration by electronic means using the e-tax system in a way that entrepreneurs receive non-binding opinion on their request within 48 hours. The Regulation should also be regulated on the basis of the results of tax controls, the tax administration collects data on the most frequent tax offences in particular in the VAT area and profits, this would be for the purpose of education of entrepreneurs. And since the Law on Administrative Taxes is being amended, I have one proposal that we wanted to propose on behalf of MOST in the parliamentary procedure at one of the next sessions, but I understand that the opportunity to integrate it into this proposal is now, namely, crews of ships visiting our ports on cruise trips which are actually, who are residents of third countries and as such do not have the right to leave, or to stay in destinations for a one-day period because their departure from the ship is charged by 120 kunas of administrative fees. For this reason and since competitive countries do not have such a type of intrusion of crew ships are solidized and practically all their needs, purchases, I don't know how to go to dentists etc., they are achieved in some neighbouring ports such as Bar, Barcelona, etc. A very simple calculation shows that it is one huge number of people, namely in crews of those ships receiving 3 to 4 thousand passengers almost a thousand are crew members. So there, at the level of the year, with more than a million outages on the coast being dealt with. When we talk about a million exits and let's say that each of these crew members spends, for example, 10 euros, it's a new nearly 100 million kuna, not in the Republic of Croatia's budget, but in the economy, and through certain tax charges paid to our shareholders, it's 30 million kuna in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and as far as I know, our total budget reaches around 200 thousand kuna annually on behalf of these administrative fees. And so, here's my suggestion, I think he's very correct and should not miss to charge that 30, 40 million kuna in the state budget. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4569	Thank you, too. We have seven replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4570	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Kristic, when you said the introduction that it is difficult to be social in taxes. Yes, it is difficult, however, first and foremost, that the minister should be guided by the principles of justice, equality, sociality and that is defined in Article 51. A constitution that says that everyone is obliged to participate in public spending settlement in accordance with their economic opportunities and the tax system is based on the principles of equality and justice. Now Article 3. The Constitution speaks of freedom and, among other things, the inviolability of ownership. I was speaking in advance, but I keep saying, I believe that the ministry colleagues will write down, namely in 2007, the Constitutional Court ruling, part of the JLS Finance Act, and especially as regards the construction land that was then declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. With that basis, my proposal is to generally move the Law on Local Taxes out, not to enter the second reading. Income tax law, those compensatory measures to come into practice before the second reading, because it was thought that real estate tax would compensate somewhere worth 20%. It would be more profitable but it is not enough to settle the difference with the basis of the loss of JLS of income tax and to approach primarily one full reform of non-partial, this type of local self-government. Which and how it wants to be out of municipalities, cities and counties, and then that part of the tax system that tangs the funding to discuss it then and to be in the process because I'm afraid now these laws will turn out and some others would, they wouldn't want it to be a map tower. There are good things in the bill that we are prepared to support, these seven laws but there are also a number of things that are unconstitutional unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4571	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4572	Well, here's the presentation of my colleague Batinić, I didn't actually see it as a replica, but as a finding, so I'm asking my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance to make comments and consider it during these readings and until the final proposal for full tax reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4573	Another replica is the esteemed colleague Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll ask myself again who and last night in the replica where is Mr. Minister? You're from the Ministry of Finance today, and I hope it's not a rude word in the cabbage or in 15 laws in one debate, and it's just not there today. I will ask you colleagues from MOST why you support those who have 3 to 4 properties and you lower their tax rate from 5 to 4% and those who have castles in Zagorje are rewarded by various bosses? And in the end, I'm going to ask you one more question to your colleagues at the Most. Did this reform first pass the Agrokor administration and then narrow down the cabinet of the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4575	Before you respond to the replica, let me just say that the minister very politely apologized for having a narrow session of the government. That's one thing. And the other thing is I don't think anybody's ever bought anything, but there are 15 proposals here that we agreed on in the presidency that we would adopt them or discuss them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4576	Well, there's actually nothing special to say on this replica. The minister has already said he's on a tight cabinet. As for the observation of whether it just passed Agrokora, I wouldn't look back at it at all. And as for taxation as you said these richer ones, of course, and I said in my own statement that this reform has not yet been passed, we are discussing the proposal, you have the opportunity to propose through the amendments its amendments and its additions. And I believe that there will be a will for all those good suggestions to be respected and that the things you consider worse changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4577	Thank you very much. The third replica is the esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4578	Thank you, fellow Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague of Christic you said there would be some changes, returns, etc. One million up, one million down. But from all of this so-called. the reforms behind these 15, 16 laws, which is actually the farthest thing. What's here to say Trump's big business. Well, it's certainly that provision that will write off worse loans to banks. So we're talking about some 40 billion kunas, 40 billion kuna is a lot more than these few million that will come from one article or another or from the 2 billion that is projected. And now the question is, if we know that the bank, then every less written-off loan counts as expenditure. That when there's a write-off that's going to cost up, so it's going to be less profit, it's going to be less profit tax. On the other hand, the question arises on what criteria, and who will the debts be forgiven for? And I think that while this smoke screen was about 5% on bread and milk, big deals were being arranged. Yesterday, I was talking about a boss who's in serious trouble with repaying credit, he's come to a limit everywhere, that maybe now someone might deliberately and deliberately stop returning their commitment, it's going to be 90 days, it's going to go into the bad credit classification just to be forgiven next year. Therefore, the question arises if this is another robbery similar to that of the bank's recovery I warn you and your party and the ruling majority are you willing to take responsibility for a new such event? Watch what you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4579	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4580	I thank my colleague Sincic. Also, this was not a replica of my exposure, I did not refer to tax reform in that part, but we are the last ones to accept any variant that pleases banks, and in that sense we will certainly take care of it. Your question should be referred to the Minister, I believe there will be more opportunities through these discussions, surely it will be led to a long night and tomorrow too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4581	Thank you. The fourth replica is distinguished counterpart Michael Zmajlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4582	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Kristic, I really agree with you that every reform is difficult to keep the social component. But here it seems that in this proposal that we got on our tables that you really didn't give that minimum effort. So we see it from a few examples. One of the ones that may be most important from the point of view, from the resistor that I ran myself, which is environmental protection, and it is, of course, related to our... A citizen, so socially endangered citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the reform and the government that proposes this proposal says that the rich will actually have more, that they will be able to buy a cheaper expensive vehicle, and that the poor, those who have no money, will have low wages that nothing will change them, and that vehicles that are today or today cost 60,70000 kuna that they will collect for 5 to 6,000 kuna. Now of course you will say vehicles are not so necessary, it is a luxury although it is necessary today given our poor traffic connection in Croatia. But there is another component where Croatia is threatening to pay fines, which is the goal and duty to reduce CO2 emissions in transport, which is one of the biggest pollutants. And by this tax reform, which is what you suggest by this tax reform. You are suggesting that our fleet, which has now reached an average age of over 12 years, is encouraged by these proposals to import used vehicles that threaten road safety and will further destroy the market and employees in that segment. What this tax reform suggests is that Croatia becomes a European wasteland of old cars.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4583	Thank you. Replication response. Oh, no? If you don't want to, you don't need to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4584	Thank you. I would not agree with my colleague Zmailovic if this reform had no social component. I will also thank my colleagues from HDZ on this occasion for respecting some of our proposals for reducing tax rates in part of the tourism activity during the dialogue on the adoption of its proposal before us. In this way, they made investment possible, which was not going up on basic life supplies, food and medicines. But this reform will not forget to correct the injustice against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that has just been done by your government, which is that electricity prices will also go significantly down through the development of a new management plan, i.e. the ministry's action plan. Therefore, it has certain components, there are also shortcomings that we can certainly correct together through this debate until the final adoption of the bill if, of course, there is room for it in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4585	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished counterpart Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4586	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kristic, we have been discussing this reform the second day. Many colleagues here make comments, suggestions, and so did you, in your debate, put forward a series of proposals, I would say really constructive and concrete proposals and good proposals in the hope that they might be respected and accepted until the second reading. We appeal to colleagues from the Ministry of Finance to record it all, to write it faithfully and to pass it on, so that maybe until the second reading we can adopt it and change something. And I'm telling you, we're not gonna change anything. Nor will it be adopted, at least if according to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's statements, who again repeated yesterday in Sibenik that his government would not give up a single segment of a whole package of new tax laws. This means that none of the remarks we make in these three days nor any of what we are discussing, nor what the Ministry of Finance gentlemen write will be adopted, as the Prime Minister, your HDZ Government and the Most say so. Therefore, I don't know why we didn't go in one reading to do everything when I don't see the meaning of the second reading or the conversation of our three days when none of this is made by the Prime Minister's messages. So I'd like some of your remarks to be adopted, but my colleague's none of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4587	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4588	Well, my colleague, first of all, thank you for estimating our remarks, which is my remarks as high-quality. I believe the Prime Minister's statement is misunderstood. It is he who calls for dialogue and I think that this debate over tax reform is one lacmus paper to see how things work. I hope so, and I just believe that part of these proposals will at least be one part of which I believe is possible without any influence on the state budget. I also believe that your good suggestions will also be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4589	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4590	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's just a follow-up to what's been said. Dear colleague Kristic, I mean don't be offended, but this looks like a game to me. In fact, you as a representative of the Most, the Most, as part of the governing structure, are making proposals on the laws that they bring together. And I guess you were supposed to coordinate those suggestions at the place where you wrote all these legal proposals together and then bring them in as such. I mean, I don't know if you understand, but you're the authors of these bill-altering proposals, so if this is a tactics that the MOST performs towards HDZ and vice versa it's ok. That's good. But this really is a pure play. On the other hand, you're all in favor of how much I see next year returning to the 13% he was on next year. Because of course from Dubrovnik you realize that one of the foundations of this country is in principle tourism and that it is definitely a problem for the caterers. We're just in an absurd situation again. You're the one who's obviously gonna raise your hand to get those caterers to raise that tax. I think that role of MOST is always very interesting. Be aware, you hold the control package whether this tax reform, tax laws will be passed or not. You also hold the control package, the control hands in this House, whether all these suggestions that you have made will be adopted or not. So I mean, let's not lie, let's not pray, let's scold, whatever you want. But this really is a pure play. Therefore, if you really care about MOST and those proposals being respected and included in the bill's proposals, if you really care about protecting the caterers and the entire catering portfolio, then you will vote that way, or you will not vote on such a proposal, or until the second reading will change that. Everything else is pure play, nothing more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4591	Thank you, too. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4592	Well, I remember a time when your colleagues, for example, used to make amendments on your proposals to Vedran Babic. So I see nothing wrong with us discussing and contributing to a better reform until the moment she votes at the Croatian Parliament. I'm still preparing myself today if I take any suggestions, some well-intentioned citizen I consider to be an expert, and today I'm ready to propose. This is where the atmosphere of dialogue and constructive conversation exists, and it's been a while if you have such an atmosphere in which you have to comply with the great leader, then you continue to do so. We won't. As long as I can get through to the moment of reform, I have no problem with it, but I'm going to suggest it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4593	Thank you. Please don't throw it away. The next is Honorable colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The fact that this is the first reading and certainly your suggestions or any individual MP or Cuba should be considered by the Ministry of Finance and I believe that the Pharaohic time that I see here my colleagues mention that this is simply not a play, I can personally say that this is not a plaything of whether the play was when it was under some kind of social measure when the wind power bill passed where the people of billions of kuna would have to pay. But here's the action plan of the Ministry of Protection and the Environment and Energy, that criminal action plan that went through the Parliament then, and we'll somehow stop through the government, and that's where the budget hole was created. However, Mr Christic, you mentioned the illegality of the origin of the property, that this proposal has been reduced from 40% to 36% and that the reduced deadlines are to six years which absolutely needs to be changed because crime has no statute of limitations. It is not possible for those who have acquired their empire, and the IRSKORT or the IRS body discovers that someone has sold banks and acquired huge money from the Croatian bank or telecommunications or from various other Croatian institutions robbing... and we had no right to do so at all. That's exactly the time when the rich were giving oxen, and the poor sons were killed and robbed during war profit. And I really hope that from where a colleague from the SDP went through this first, so I have information that from 23% to 25% in the government of Zoran Milanovic went through the Atlantic group at the Peppermint cafe. Now I can speak the same way, but it doesn't mean anything. Just making things up isn't good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4595	Before fellow Kristic answers, we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4596	Thank you, Vice President. So I would like to ask for an article in 238 by my colleague Bulj, because he basically gives a replica to me, not a colleague who held an argument, so he would suggest that you let me answer his line if you had already allowed him such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4597	I estimate there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, there's been a lot more debate than the subject, and even from your ranks, so I didn't warn anyone, so I'm not going to do it now. Would you like some? You're giving up, too. Thank you very much. My friend Bulj, there's no need, I think it's settled. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4598	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Of course, that's something that's been noticed, so when we talk about the origin of the property, I personally think it's necessary to further strengthen institutions dealing with this kind of surveillance and that there's a huge space here for the state budget, and I think it's inappropriate to reduce the rate that was 40% to 36% because it actually legalizes that saying, who put it in the hole, and I think that it really needs to make changes and increase this rate to a minimum of 50%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4599	Thank you very much. With this, we've exhausted the replicas to your exposure as well. And now we're moving on to the next individual debate, and that's distinguished colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4600	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy with his associates. So talking about tax reform needs to say a few introductory things. Comrade Marin, you're traveling a deputy should hear something, perhaps. So far, the practice that the tax system is under the influence of every policy when the political structure in Croatia is changed should first be abandoned and this should be a reform of all reforms. So we are now mature to have a piece of advice that would comb and keep the continuity of our systems, not that they are exposed to such an important system and that they are exposed to the political influence of the structures that come into power. What I said is equally about the left-wing dominant political option, as well as the right-wing dominant political option. In this political option, the tax system cannot be stopped on two tools, at two tax rates and at one supportive rate, or at a 12% sub-step. With this you cannot regulate social justice, I repeat social justice, the tax system. I can agree with Minister Maric that the pension system and the level of pensions cannot be regulated through the tax system, but through the tax system, conditions are created and mass is created which then responds to the fight against poverty or the social system. So, all those who boast today that we will give two billion citizens, and we will give the most to those who are the richest in Croatia. They forget that we are bonds against poverty in Croatia. We are bonds and we are politically responsible for having this level of poverty. Wouldn't it be better to have a social justice system if one part of what is given to those who already have remained in the state to aliminate the welfare? Do you think these people are lucky they don't have... ? Do you think they're happy to be abandoned? No, they're not. But we keep rewarding those who already have solids. I apologize to you here for reacting this morning, and I noticed that there was something wrong with my assessment when I replicated Minister Lalovec because I said there were 15,000 of those over 6 thousand pensioners. It's not true, there are 65,000, there are 15,000 of them only from regular work, so those of the ZOMO and the others are defenders and persons of service, or military personnel. So a total of 65 grand. It is not true that it will cost, or that people with the largest pensions will be fired 15 million kunas at year level, but will be between 60 and 70 million kunas a year. Also in the Income Tax Act, it says that it will motivate people to transfer their residence abroad to Croatia, it wants only for those with extremely high pensions, those who have pensions from BiH or pensions for 10 years from Slovenia, everything remains as old, equal tax burden and no motivation to come, no motivation to transfer their residence to Croatia. It has been said that the outflow of young people, young workers, will be stopped. Let's put it this way, those trainees who get hired, who employers take indefinitely for 5 years have the right to use the benefit of not paying for a health contribution. Usually they can get 7 thousand kuna as an employer’s salary, therefore, or 6 thousand kuna without that medical contribution. This employer, it is not an excessive price but it is unfortunately the price in Croatia for high professional equipment. When you refuse him 20% contributions he came to 4800, you will hit him on 1000 kuna tax per 24% and at this point he has profits at a monthly level of even 24 kuna without counting even a cut. That I think will stop all our young people from leaving Croatia because they really have a bright future ahead of them in Croatia. It is indeed a measure that motivates personnel to remain in Croatia. We made you a proposal, gave it, sent it to Prime Minister Plenkovic, sent it to the ministry, I'll give it to you here when I finish my presentation where we suggest you raise the untaxed amount of pensions to 5 thousand kuna. This includes a middle layer of pensioners, about 130 thousand people, and those 65 I was talking about will get very little, so one much fairer model. Of course, this will not reflect on the pensioners with the lowest incomes, they will have the same and less because the struggle for these pensioners must go through the budget with social benefits and their material status can improve, be careful to improve the different Law on Pensions, the different arrangements of family pensions, the abolition of pensions after the expiry of the period for which the pension is set and may or must be thought about a protective allowance, i.e. a supplement that is in the function of combating poverty exclusively for those who do not have other incomes. In this way, you get a fight against poverty, and for that you have to have funds in the budget because, as it is said this morning, you have a constant gap between pension rights and income in the debate. I've been dealing with this for 20 years, I can fool myself into judgment but not entirely. The second is an objection to the Mandatory Contribution Act. So I wanted the government of the Republic of Croatia to tell me how many pensioners do it under the Act of Action and to show me the competitiveness of the pensioners towards the workers, where they took this job to the workers, to see if it's a well-founded assessment and then that really if it comes to competitiveness then I will raise my hand to introduce a 10% contribution to pensions and a 7.5% contribution to health insurance. That's what these laws say, my dears. No one has even mentioned that 3% of the health contributions paid by 30,000 pensioners with pensions of more than 5400 kuna should be abolished, so those who have been double-paying for 7 years are paying double taxes, nothing is said in this reform. No one is saying that those who have over 100 thousand kuna monthly salary and those who have about 750 in Croatia receive more paid contributions taxed by 45%. This is what I've been fighting since 2003, and no government thinks that those who have 100 grand a month should be happy to have such a salary, to live and to feed another 5, 10 pensioners, and not to get another 13. salary at the end of the year, by calculating more payments. And the last thing I wanted to discuss was about profit tax. I know of a good businessman who made quite a profit in the last year and who reinvested that profit or invested in buying one hotel, so into another activity. And he's capable, and I believe this year he'd be recapitalising that facility, it's a hotel in Vodice too bad there's no colleague here. I know he's capable and now he's very, very disappointed because he can't go on with that project and all because of what happened yesterday was said some embezzlement in the work. People my relief for reinvested profits is a pearl, is a diamond of a society that says that someone has installed all their profits to preserve their own production or technological improvement or that it has invested in another activity that will also raise where they will hire new people. We destroy it, that one pearl we can boast of, that has all the old European countries. I apologize for the temperament, but I have reason to speak like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4601	Thank you, colleague Hrelja. We have several replicas, four so. First Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4602	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues and respected gentlemen from the Ministry of Finance and from the Tax Administration, I especially thank you for the presentation of my colleague Hrelje, who inspired me on several issues, and primarily refers to the things that the predecessors also said by fellow Lucic, and counterpart Batinić about the constitutional roles and parliamentary representatives and the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the adoption of these rules and the direction of tax money towards social strata as part of a solidarity and social state where we are headed. So here we see from all those epithets that emerge from superhic reforms themselves and ways not to address the poor layers and address the layers of society that they have and now these reforms will have even more. I myself, as a parliamentary representative, have to detest it and here I confirm my parliamentary role that we must protect under the Constitution of poor layers and address tax money and channel it towards poor layers. There is now a question and everything about the contributions themselves, however, our colleague Lucic reminded us that HDZ and MOST are in power. The HSU is not in power, the SDP is not in power and the responsibility is high on HDZ and the MOST to comply with constitutional provisions and to respect those in which the role of the tax administration or the Ministry of Finance is. Otherwise, we will detest, however, the court of the public and the court of voters in the final vote and the one that is final and I must stress that for such tax reform voters have chosen, HDZ and MOST authorities have been elected to lead and to the extent that money loss will result in poor layers and mass wealth already rich. That's what we think he's going for their mustache and not ours at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4603	The answer to the replica of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4604	Well, dear colleague Varga, I appreciate what you've said and I confirm because the current ruling coalition is facing a great challenge. We should grow up how society and should know that we are obliged to translate into laws what was good and not what was politically cost-effective or opportune about the day. So we are and it is our duty to pass good laws for citizens and ensure the functionality of society. So the provisions of the Constitution on social justice speak precisely about what you stressed that we must keep in mind through the money we collect as taxes to protect the weakest in this society. It's waiting for us tomorrow, maybe tomorrow we're that sick, old, abandoned, etc. Some of us. So if we don't think about what kind of bed we're going to lie in today, then who's going to think about it instead? You think someone else will care more than we do? So there is a great responsibility here for both HDZ and MOST, and I would beg them no matter what they are in power and what they have their hands to respect not only us but also the social partners that are bypassed here. Let's not court employers with higher profits and conflict employers with trade unions. It's interesting to get for one society, it's interesting to get the desired system and not impose a system to defend it all, that this system all defends. And that's how I experience the social state, and that's how I experience social dialogue in a democratic state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4605	Thank you very much. We have the next line of Ana Comparic Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4606	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, you said this tax reform wouldn't do the pensioners any good. And I can argue that she will not bring good but will bring very bad not only to the pensioners but also to the young families. If 1.8 billion buys through income tax goes directly from local self-government units, of course, with the promise that it will be compensated and until we don't know, and I also have to remind that local self-government units were until 15.11. And that was yesterday they had to publish their budgets on websites. Thus, budgeting or drafting budgets had to be made by local self-government units. According to some of the instructions as they are, we now see that their absolute income will change, which means that after the new year, we will have the rebalancing of these same budgets. As a result of this I argue to you will be a reduction in the standard of municipal infrastructure, there will be an increase in the price of kindergartens, an increase in the price of extended stay, a reduction of money for associations, a reduction of money for the most sensitive groups, a reduction of money for all that cities cover for social, social programmes. So, after which, of course, it is directly related to pensioners, and on the other hand, how it will increase prices and kindergartens and extended stays with the collection of first estate apartments where we have the introduction of taxes is a direct blow to young families. And the consequences of all this will be that young families will come out of Croatia even more and run and so much in favour of the demographic restoration of the Republic of Croatia as well as in support of the most intelligent policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4607	Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4608	Dear colleagues, so I've been describing that trainee case and I think it's clear from the fact that 24 kuna plus in taxes, I'm not talking about the tax because it depends on the city where someone lives, it won't motivate anyone to stay. But it would certainly be motivated by a system of advancement in the ministry if it had some perspective of career advancement, etc. And you can't talk about it here in tax policy, but you have to realize that's what we don't have in the state. And as far as the pensioners are concerned, I think you've only touched the tip of the ice santa of what can be collected for the pensioners in view of already and, therefore, the lack of money in local self-government already feels a lack of money for social programs, for pensioners and for helping associations, but also for helping in the house, the living room and the money that cities pay to pensioners, which means a lot to them since they have neither the possibility of new incomes, nor have more in late years of working ability to improve their own incomes. Therefore, if I could correct my position that nothing would change, not that anything would change, but what is about to change with the application of this tax reform will certainly change worse. It's going to get a little bit better in a year after the pension adjustment, so that'll certainly lead to what Mr. Lalovec was talking about this morning and the average pension in average salary drops. Because that part of the pensioners with high pensions is only 5% of the total number of pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4609	Thank you very much. A new replica of counterpart Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4610	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleague of Hrelja. Well, I don't mind when you're having a temperamental discussion, which means you care about solving a problem and I welcome it. As far as going to the family, so it was recorded statistically, it was the most during the government of Zoran Milanovic. But I wouldn't pollemize there, the statistics are the ones that talk about it. You asked so I'll refer to this part of how many pensioners have worked on black. I can't do that to you from 1.1.2014 on contract, you said. Okay. So you have the legal that's defined. One of the worst moves I've ever made about this was that the Government of Zoran Milanovic was disbanded by the State Inspectorate, the people who knew. A thousand people were in the system because some of the ministers sitting here thought they'd be much better and stronger when they had the inspection. They realized they destroyed the economy. Maybe they haven't figured it out yet, they'll figure it out. So they weren't acting in good lord manners, but they thought they'd have a stick, because they didn't realize that they had to be partners with the masters, but they went down with repression. So it's facts and facts. They broke the State Inspectorate's system into the ministry. Today you do not have the information that you ask, but it is likely that the time will come and some things will be integrated to prove to them that they did not know what they were doing. At the time, there was no problem when you were looking into large employers. From 1.1.2014 to today, to the end of Zoran Milanovic's government, I'm not sure that's how it was determined. And I already said, as far as tax reform is concerned, I'll do it again. This is a major tax reform that brings relief and only well-being to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we have seen how the mini tax and a lot of mini tax reforms that have only caused damage have passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4611	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4612	Well, dear fellow Mikulić, I have great respect for you, but I did not expect this level of your replica for a reason, dear God, so when it could have happened, the departure of young people, rather than at the time of the Government of Zoran Milanovic when we joined the EU. And all those to whom the EU has given some challenges and who have accepted these challenges could then, before, have not been able to leave and of course it has its own trend that sooner or later will either increase or be terrified, depends on their interests. Because that's why we joined together to have freedom of movement of people and goods. The second thing, of course, is that I asked what the tax administration needs to know. So, the deed was made by pensioners for reasons because they have health insurance anyway. Because if they were to pay pension contributions, they would have to be provided with a new pension account every year, so also an increase in pensions based on contributions. According to this, the government of Zoran Milanovic gave up the increase but also gave up on the other side and the collection of contributions. And the tax administration has to have it because they paid taxes. So you can't catch them anywhere else. But the tax was paid and they also had OPPDO patterns through which it was all handled. Therefore, I addressed my question to the right address and I think the Tax Administration should give an answer to the equipment of this Law on Contributions to Second Reading in the Croatian Parliament, to see that competitiveness or that competition of the work of the pensioners according to the work of the workers. I'll withdraw everything I've said if that competition is proven to me, but I don't believe in it because pensioners do those jobs that young and healthy workers won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4613	And the last replica of the presentation of colleagues is Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4614	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague of Hrelja, on yesterday 45 years ago, Intel released the first microprocessor based on silicon, and then it began a really strong era of information science and even the development of IT. Why would I bring that up? When we talk about the tax system, I'm certainly not a tax expert, but it's often talked about a very complex system, it's said that the system should be as simple as possible. In my opinion, of course, it's hardly practical. The ideal system would be which would currently be both horizontally and vertically correspond to all the conditions in society, which would help entrepreneurs, which would help those who are difficult. But what I reported for the replica, and you actually mentioned it when it came to reinvested profits. There was an explanation that it was abolished because it was not used in practice. But where and where a better solution would be to allow people to benefit from education by accessing a different privilege because jobs open contracts, and we can reach contracts if we have the means to work. You mentioned an example where people invested well and did business. I think it's very important. If a small number of people have used it, it's important what message is being sent. If you're sending a message it's not wise to reinvest you won't have any benefits, then it's not a good message. So it was necessary to keep that measure because it certainly tells entrepreneurs or direct them to reinvest instead of putting new ones of profits on their accounts or amounts from the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4615	The answer to the replica of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4616	You gave me one association because tax reform with let's say with two tax rates is a lot to express myself technically, semi-conducting or missing or not missing. So there's no room for maneuvers, there's no filigree reading. For example. The Republic of Italy has five tax rates. The richest people who receive the highest salary have 55% tax on their incomes. I don't see anything wrong with the tax burden being borne more by those who can, and the tax income being alimony then the needs of those who weren't just lucky to enjoy either at age or have such a large salary or failed. So there's no society where everyone's managed equally. He's gone. And we're gonna miss it because we've got two feet and one submersible. And no country ever does this kind of jump tax reform. You can't cross from 13,200 to 17,500 I'd be the first to support if you'd moved from 13,200 to 15,200, if you'd moved all non-taxable. So you have to go with one feeling. You don't get anything jumpy like this. I've been dealing with this for 20 years, counting the wages and negotiating collective agreements, and that's part of my job. I wasn't satisfied with our government as well as with our taxes, etc. And the tax discharge of the ones with the best pay, and I also once raised my hand with bitterness. I can admit it, but there were no jumps like this. There wasn't this jump from 13,200 to 17,500. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4617	Thank you. The next call came from a colleague named Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4618	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Honorable esteemed ministers with associates. Here I was honored that just when it's time to pause that our assembly is more empty than full, but I'm glad the representatives of the ministry are here so that they can hear what I, as a parliamentary representative from the IDS, would suggest about these reforms. Namely, this proposed tax reform contains a series of tax legislations that we discussed yesterday and we are discussing today, and I believe that we will discuss tomorrow, should aim at reducing the overall tax burden, promoting the competitiveness of the economy, building a more fair social tax system, a stable, sustainable and simple tax system, simplifying and cheaper tax administration, as well as providing greater legal certainty to taxpayers. I believe that we will all agree that it is ideal that this is well said and I want to point out right at the beginning that I am for our entrepreneurs, our businessmen to have lower tax burdens, that our employees have higher salaries, to encourage consumption, to encourage investment, to increase living standards for citizens and to have a more socially fair system. I believe it's nice to feel, pleasant to the ear but we're all aware that it's very difficult to achieve and that it's certainly impossible to achieve it overnight. But I believe that those of us who are from the opposition that just through our constructive proposals, we will make proposals that will improve these proposals that you as a ministry have brought to us on the benches. What I would especially point out, and in these two days there's a lot of talk about income tax, I want to look back at one part of which was not at all a matter of tax relief. Thus, this legal solution abolishes the right to a personal deduction for taxpayers and dependent members of their families in the event that the rental income is the only and exclusive income of those taxpayers, or where they have no other income. This puts a group of citizens in an unequal position behind other taxpayers who are employed and are entitled to a tax deduction. If the income from the least real estate is personal and the only source of means to secure the existence, we should be sure that this group of citizens has the same rights as the employees. In particular, considering that the elimination of this type of relief would most affect the poorest unemployed citizens who would thus further violate their standard of living, so I ask the authorities to consider it. Secondly, what I want to look at through my debate is, since I am the mayor in particular, I will stress the impact of this tax reform on local self-government units and therefore on the lives and standards of our citizens in these units of local self-government. We must openly say that this entire reform of the tax system, again, I do not know which way it fell on the burden of local and regional (regional) self-government. And indeed all of us holders of local and regional authorities have to ask ourselves how our counties, cities, and municipalities will function and work from next year. I would ask the Temple to come to me for a little time if the minister heard what I was going to say, since the Hrelja had already finished the debate. So we in local self-government units next year are gonna have a lot of problems. From colleagues, especially from HDZ, you have been mentioned frequently that you have given us instructions on how to plan the budget. But here's a colleague earlier said that we, we have a legal obligation until yesterday, means by the 15th time we turn over to the first reading of city and municipal council members and the county plan for, the budget plan for next year. We really had to be, I'll tell the magicians like that under alleged signs of how to plan our budgets. You said we were planning this year. However, we fear that the next year's funding will be less. And now I ask myself a question of how to provide funds for what is our obligation, kindergartens, extended school stay, our social satisfaction. Not to say what we've taken responsibility for, but it's not, for example. additional co-financing of emergency medical care, fire and other activities that we finance from these tax revenues. I will point out immediately that with the Income Tax Bill proposal, local and regional self-government units are reducing budget revenues by one and a half billion kuna and, unfortunately, no compensatory measures have been listed anywhere in the reasons to compensate for this lack of budgetary resources. We also hear that we have a promise and a guarantee from the minister that these funds will be returned to us. And maybe it was inappropriate, Mr. Minister, when you said, yes, up to nine months, the local self-government unit has excess income. 1.6 billion kuna surplus. Now it turns out, don't be mad at this one of mine... The replica, uh, they have an extra 1.6 and now we're taking 1.5 to give it back to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I suggest you leave it to us, that we don't have to go to Zagreb and get it back to us, but that we really have that 1.5 billion left. But I'll tell you why that surplus happened, that surplus in our budgets, because when we were doing the 2016 budget, we planned that the government and certain ministries would open up tenders for certain projects where we invest joint funds. And this is our share that we planned in the budget and we know that the technical government and the previous government did not call the competitions and these tenders were announced to be by the end of the year but that the competitions are now being held for me this year is impossible to realise. So it's just that I'm going to say plan resources, planned exactly for co-financing this year, and I believe we're going to transfer them to another because we won't be able to spend them unless you take them from us. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, we also received a clarification from the proposing representative that the deficit due to the change in income tax on local self-government units will be compensated from the state budget in a way that will be compared to January 2016, January 2017 and the difference that will be paid out of the state budget. I think that this measure is good so temporarily to cover this minus, but I don't think it's stimulating enough because during the year, successful local administrations have managed to run in the entrepreneurship zones of certain economic activities and there has been a change that will not be considered in this case. And I'll say about my city, for example. I will have 200, 300 employees more, that revenue will increase and me the difference between 2016 and 2017 will be less than those who have failed. And with automation, I'll get less funds back. But that's why you punish those who work well and raise their budgets right through the development of the economy and through new employment. That's why I think all these reforms are designed to fill the state budget at the expense of local self-government units. And when we come to the question of compensation of funds to units of local self-government then or these methods of compensation are not explained or underdeveloped. So there are no clear legal rules from which it would be visible how much we will and how we receive the funds. And since I don't have enough time for my entire exposure but I believe I'll use it in the final. I would like to ask the ministry's representatives at the head of the ministry that what is really necessary is that these measures, which are introduced by additional centralisation and all in the pre-election campaign, we said that we would decentralise and strengthen precisely fiscally that... financial decentralisation and functional, that we would strengthen local and regional self-government and that they would be the real generators of economic development. But there's no percentage of decentralisation in any law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4619	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is Ana Komaračić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4620	Thank you, Vice President. So here I am also going to refer to my previous debate that I have given to Mr. Hrelja, and it is about that your entire exposure will, in fact, come to the great problems of the local self-government unit, and I have already stated that there will be a collection of a number of services that are required to provide the unit of local self-government and kindergarten, and from extended stay, and from the stay of an extended stay for the elderly, and all those social benefits that one unit of local self-government has in its duties. But what I really want to stress is, in addition to these gatherings, I am convinced that there will be a reduction of municipal standards in all cities and municipalities and projects or agreed projects are coming into question. Because cities therefore planned to finance their projects through a future period and these projects, which were therefore negotiated and subsidized from the EU, come into question. Because you had to provide some kind of means over some years. If you change the entry point into the budget now you'll have to cut it all somewhere. Now, if any of the mayors are going to cut off the social first and leave the projects behind, or they're going to choose to cut projects and leave the welfare that I think is what's going to happen sooner. So we're actually going to put cities in a position that they're going to have to give up all their projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4621	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Tulio Demetlika's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4622	That's exactly how well-respected colleagues are. Cities are also brought to a difficult situation by municipalities or county. You mentioned it well, but here we hear from the ruling that there is this guarantee. But I'm going to give an example, exactly the one that you said about how a certain investment can be abolished? In one of the former HDZ governments, a bill also came to transfer the income tax total to 100% of the state's income. The city, a concrete one Istrian, had income from profit tax and 30 million kuna. With one move of feathers, the 30 million kuna ended up in the Republic of Croatia's budget. But to be the same example, to take a town in Slavonia that also had a profit tax of 5 million kuna, so that mayor who was from HDZ rebelled, and then they told him from the government, don't worry, we'll give you 10 back. So that's why I'm looking for precise measures, but that's the truth, Mr. Minister. Comrade Sponza had planned a sports hall with 30 million kuna planned in the budget. The 30 million people moved to Zagreb and then the money was paid compensation. We only ask that it be made clear how it will come back, to be precisely defined because otherwise we are in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4623	Thank you very much. It's a new replica, Marco Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4624	Thank you. Here's a colleague I'll agree with you anyway, we talked about it on the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government that it's very awkward to go now to change the income tax given the deadlines that bind us, since only all budget users have been sent to deliver their plans for 2017. And we, when planning budgets, actually every year, because we look at economic growth, to look at and monitor employment growth, and I think that in the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance itself, there are usually certain amounts, we increase that budget. In particular, I'm going to say one example from the city where I come from, where I'm the mayor we had last year from income tax of about 6.5 million kuna, so now we have almost 7 million and 250 million. So 650 thousand kuna is an increase from income tax itself and of course we are planning for 2017 also not that amount but that we also planned a certain 7% to 8% increase. Today, in these compensatory measures, we do not see that we will be back in 2017, but that it will only be this level for 2016 as long as we now have. In some ways, they punish those successful units that are really big, where we actually have an increase in investment, where we have a decline in unemployment, and unfortunately with this we show that we really don't really care about the economy. Cosmetically, it is a change in income tax that needs to be welcomed, a tax on the company... which should be welcomed by everyone because it reduces the burden on our owners, but in... part we have freed many of our entrepreneurs to invest and invest in business areas of municipal compensation and with the very changes in real estate tax. Since 2018, it will no longer be able to consume our entrepreneurs and will be forced to pay real estate tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4625	Thank you very much. We have no responsibility for the replica. Next replica Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4626	Dear colleague Tulio, I think you'll be pleased with the ministry's compensatory measures if the minister trusts what you're going to calculate is your damage and if he compensates you. But since many years here in the Croatian Parliament have never happened, I will be very happy if for this very time it happens even though from the words of the minister stands exactly so that cities and municipalities will be at the same level as if this change and this tax reform is not happening. Therefore, it is only your choice whether you believe or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4627	We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4628	Here's a thank you to Mr. Hrelja. I honestly want to trust the minister, but from experience in the past, we're smoking a little cold. I will now be whatever government she was, whether she on the left or on the right, we heard the shootings this morning, and I'm really wrong about what these bickerings were because there should be a debate in one positive direction. And we've had bad experiences from both left and right. Yes, and I didn't know Mr. Linic or Schuker or who was the finance minister, but always the local self-government units were cut off. And the funds that ended up in the Republic of Croatia's budget were then divided into some kind of party membership. And that's why I insist on what Mr. Hrelja said that we don't smoke cold and that really this trust received by the minister and this government, to clear criteria, clear rules to be equal to everyone and not to punish them successfully, but to reward them successfully as children at school. He's a medalist, always gets the most because he's being enabled, because he's just a locomotive of future development. And don't use those measures to punish and brake successfully, and not to be those locomotives of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4629	Thank you very much. Next replica, Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4630	My dear colleague, you've shown your skepticism and fear of tax reform and the changes that are happening right now at the end of this year. But any change in the tax system, in any parameter, is unfortunate even when it happened in the fourth month as for those former, former governments. And it is certainly more instructed that it happens at the end of this year, and will reflect on changes and parameters and total amounts in the course of the following year, so 2017. So this is always a smarter approach than when it happens on half or in the first quarter of any year. And we're all always in fear when something important is happening, but the fact that life is looking for certain new, new solutions. Local budgets are part of the general state, therefore local, urban and regional, county. So it is never in the interest of the entire system of the state budget that these budgets suffer in any way and at least knowing, and not only believing, but in the long-term experience of the example that I have had in the business and work of different ministers, so it has always been done to make sure that local budgets make up for their original incomes, and in particular in this composition I am very confident. As far as communal compensation is concerned, we were as units of local self-government suspended by being strictly dedicated incomes, and no unit is in the interest of any unit to reduce municipal standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4631	Thank you very much. The next debate is Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4632	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. Yesterday, on behalf of the Living Wall Club, we rejected the tax reform as a whole, as it relies on the wrong model of the economy, but today we will point to some parts of the articles themselves, or legal proposals within the tax reform, which indicate that it is not actually going to protect citizens, their bulky part, particularly socially endangered rather than actually protecting large capital above all banks and corporations. So, the anti-demographic measure within this tax reform is the introduction of first real estate tax, to the purchase of first real estate. It significantly collects, therefore, the housing of young families along with some parafiscal burdens that the government also does not want to arrange, for example, the cost of processing credits. And then when public record costs are added to that, and the rest turns out that young families will have to spend 10% on expenses only instead of investing them in their housing, especially since young families do not have any large funds that they could spend. They usually buy maybe one-room, two-room apartments, older some less real estate, and in any case, that measure goes against them. And now look at what the government is offering, today it proposes. The government is proposing a compensatory measure that it will subsidise allegedly interest on the housing loans of young families. So whose advantage is this measure now? In favor of the banks again. So the banks will lend housing loans and now the state will grant subsidies to banks. So give subsidies to young families directly without bothering ourselves with those intermediaries. Next, the minister says I'm Slavonic. Here HDZ says we're patriots, we especially remember the example of Vukovar. Here in two days there will be a visit to Vukovar, there will be no session. And what Minister Maric is offering here, the elimination of tax relief for the town of Vukovar. So you'll actually see in two days when you're there to have the war consequences in Vukovar feeling pretty good. There are still no normal living conditions and normal employment conditions as in some other parts of Croatia. Well, I can't, of course, compare myself. I don't know Pula and Vukovar at the rate of economic development and opportunity. And you're cutting off their tax relief. You're just right, you're a great date timer, I really congratulate you. We can vote this law precisely on the 18th at midnight on the day of the fall of Vukovar. And why are you doing this? Well, you're only doing it because it's what the EU is asking you to do. You have no other reason. The EU is asking for tax reliefs to be lifted, and here is the minister, no matter what is in Vukovar, the main thing is that the directive is fulfilled. So there's been a mistake. Further, fiscalization. In fiscalization, the concept of a small taxpayer is lifted, so those craftsmen who have barely patched up the end of the end and who have gone hand in hand to pay a flat-rate to their business, are now being introduced fiscalization, which means that jobs will be shut down and that we will have new social cases. Furthermore, we have a measure throughout this forest of articles to release the pre-tax import of foreign machines, importing machines. So don't we, for example, have companies in Croatia like Gredelj or perhaps what Končar is, why we must now, with such companies that should actually give them some incentive, we are doing unfair competition to them in a way that encourages the import of foreign machines. I don't understand that measure. In whose interest do you work? To encourage exports or to encourage imports? What is the need to stimulate the import of machines? Furthermore, the taxes introduced should be guided by the principle of justice. So this is one of the basic principles of any tax policy in the EU, even in this EU, which we are trying to copy, as a rule, there are three to five tax rates, with there necessarily a social rate and there is the same rate for large rich people who are climbing up to 75% in some countries. And now we've managed to introduce only two feet of this social one we've abolished, and this one allegedly for rich people we've even managed to reduce without introducing a third rate. Eventually, we could have introduced a rate of 50% that would result in some kind of proportional taxation. This way we've got a solution that doesn't exist almost anywhere in the world. So two tax rates 24 and 36% and that's it. We've seen in those pay calculations that the pay will, above all, grow to people who don't have and who don't need it, and people who don't have it won't grow, or they'll grow I don't know about 10 or 15 kuna, so you told them, so here's the garbage that's gonna cost you 10 kuna. Do you know it's 100 kuna a year? You're about to pay one HRT fee, here's a big step. Also these salary calculations, you're talking are full of mouths, it's really boring to listen to you, as you advocate demographic measures, and wage calculations show that in Croatia the best thing to do is to be single, the fewer children will get a higher salary. And only in case, please hear this carefully, that I have a salary of 60,000 kuna only in which case it is worth having two or more children. And who in Croatia has the salary of 60 thousand kuna gross, only the governor of the CNB and those members of the pension fund management that hides like a snake's feet from at least the public. So you should have made such changes in tax rates that precisely those parents who have two and three children have higher salaries, and single people should have had less if you really wanted to implement demographic policy. Do the calculations, I believe you've made them that you've seen them and you know very well what I'm talking about. And one more thing to end because we don't have any more time, and these are transfer prices which is in one respect good thing for you to finally try to get those transfer prices in order because it was one of the main sources of tax evasion of all possible types, the founding of daughters and grandkids of large companies where the state was harvested, could be taxed on the other hand they could be looking for subsidies, completely illegal but you just said that here we were defining the thing, but you didn't provide a way of supervision. You transfer prices in Croatia, tell people the truth, the surveillance of two people, and now you're going to stop the boss from continuing to resell products between one company and another for profit or loss, better said or less, to ensure that he can continue to achieve hundreds of millions of tax evasions without any control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4633	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first replica of the representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4634	Here's a esteemed colleague, you said that for the Vukovar area there is no exemption from profit tax. In fact, explicitly in the article, that is, Article 9 of the amendment and Article 28a. which is amended says that they continue to pay 50% of the prescribed rate of tax for the specific state care area, i.e. PP1 of the development group, i.e. the city of Vukovar. So there are reliefs for that area.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4635	Thank you very much. We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4636	So there's a relief after all. So so far it's zero and now it's 50 and now it's saying here you see it's still not 100% as good as we are. So you should have left 0% of that point so long as the situation in Vukovar doesn't change. As I have already mentioned during the debate, you will have the opportunity to visit Vukovar for two days, so ask how you live in Vukovar, how busy you are, what investments are, whether people are moving, whether someone has moved to Vukovar etc. So, I repeat again. It was completely unnecessary for the purpose, so some tax reform, to touch these reliefs by, of course, Vukovar is just the most pronounced problem. There is also a question of the depopulations of smaller islands and some other parts of Croatia which therefore do not have the conditions for even development such as other Croatian counties or large cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4637	Mr. Rechimer Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4638	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A fellow Bunjac, so I don't know why you don't trust the minister on promises that interest will be subsidized, that young people, young families, will be in a more favourable position than they have been before. Because so far, they didn't need it when they were taking loans to the banks, they didn't have to pay their taxes right away. What will have to be paid by 4,5,000 euros depends on the amount of credit. We don't have that kind of promise. So they needed to pay about 500 to 800 euros for the notary, i.e. the public notary, for the soleization of the contract. So they had to pay the cost of processing the loan, so apparently the minister thinks that young people already have it in their pocket, so that all the costs can cover you before they even get into the apartment. And not to say if they're buying a new apartment then it's usually so that moving into that new apartment is only after a few months and they need a mortgage. Since they have no property, then the mortgage usually ends on parents or a great friend. So I believe that this promise from the Minister on interest subsidies will lead to a much more favourable position for young people when buying a new apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4639	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4640	Dear colleague, you think subsidizing will put young families in a more favourable position. However, it is the fact that the state in the real estate market should actually intervene itself without the intervention of banks. So there are models of fostered housing and various other savings models where young families could be directly provided with these funds, not subsidized by banks that lend loans in the worst part, so in the interest part, that is, money that has never actually been released into circulation. I do not trust Minister Maric for a simple reason because the same subsidies were introduced in his time by Prime Minister Sanader, so they were something of a subsidized interest, so they were incentives for 1250 kuna savings, etc. Then the young families moved in 2004 and 2006, and immediately thereafter these subsidies were abolished. So don't forget that loans last 15 to 20 years. Who knows where, in 15, 20 years, Minister Maric and this government will be and should have introduced some incentives that will be shorter and more concrete than those promises that have not even arrived at the end in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4641	Thank you very much. Next replica Ivan Willibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4642	Thank you, dear vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague, Bunjac, thank you for everything you've brought out. Here they were, we all mentioned in the campaign the demographic restoration of the particularly ruling majority. They were filled with the mouth of demographic restoration, protection of the family, protection of the only home. However, the campaign has passed, we see what is happening in practice. The law of law is far from what it should be. There's no protecting the only home. About which 18 months the proposal offers is better than the 10 offered by the SDP in the last term. Now the first real estate subsidy is lifted. In the long term, real estate tax is introduced. We've received a lot of calls and messages, people are disappointed in the Most. And now I'm supposed to be their political opponent, but I won't. I am, above all, sad that young people will find it even harder, which we will waste years, which we will waste even more years, which we will waste even more time. And first of all, I'm most sorry that we're testifying again to the voters' betrayal, and that primarily applies here to the Most. Now that the minister is here, I'll look back at the replica I gave when he wasn't. So here we're talking about some projections of 2 billion kuna. However, the big bussiness, the big job behind this and the ones up to 40 that should be written off, and I ask under what conditions and whom such loans will be written off. Is there already some secret arrangements behind this smoke screen that will raise prices to bread and milk because there are already some agreements and that loans will stop coming back now, so it will expire 90 days, so it will be bad loans so that next year they can write off. We want to know by which rules and which loans will be written off or we'll have another ten-billion-dollar scam like the bank's recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4643	Time. And part of the replica will certainly not be heard from you, said a colleague of Bunjac, so I ask you to use the replicas anyway to communicate with each other and not with the minister because at the moment she was not a replica minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4644	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Sincic, that we live in a situation where there is therefore knowledge of something but there is no knowledge, therefore there is no application. We used to listen to different promises before the elections, and frankly to HDZ promises we're used to. Jobs are promised, demographic policy, patriotism, and we don't listen to them anymore, because we know that after the election, the same policy as we've been doing for 25 years will be implemented. However, the problem is, of course, the MOST party which promised something else, which said that it would fight both HDZ and SDP if it were to work against citizens' interests, there were all kinds of announcements, well some of them may have been as childish as this one that would end up being 99 MPs, which ultimately does not allow. Well, if the fellow members of the Most Constitution had read the Constitution, they would have known it was impossible. Well, I don't know how to cut the salary of agents, privilege, giving young entrepreneurs. But what do we have today? We have instead of giving money to young entrepreneurs we have the introduction of first real estate taxes. And we can really suspect not only that MOST has therefore entered into a subjective relationship with HDZ but we can step in, we can suspect even worse that MOST has also been involved in the network of banks and that actually citizens remain at bay for the next 4 years and that therefore the whole policy is actually changing only at the cosmetic level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4645	Thank you very much. And the last replica of your exposure is colleague Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4646	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, from your debate, your colleagues have come from the fact that it is very important that this package is also the Law on the financing of local self-government units. Then it would be seen precisely and precisely how the government intends to calm down units of local self-government that will lose nearly 2 billion kuna with this reform. And another important reason, regional policy, regional policy with this proposal has completely come out of the story. We don't even know if there will be regional policies in Croatia anymore. Namely, here are the arguments following, right if it goes to all units of local self-government to single out 80% of income tax, which means that all those who have been in a privileged position so far have a greater share of income tax will no longer have that. They'll be even with all the other units of local self-government. This is the serious consequence of this proposal. The second thing, an increase in personal deduction to 3800 kuna equated a complete personal deduction in areas of state care, special state care and all other areas of Croatia. Thus, the factor that was the factor of attracting doctors, teachers, teachers, and other people to come into these less developed areas and to help the system work there is now gone. If he'll come back, I want to know, and you probably will. Therefore, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government must come as quickly as possible here to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4647	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4648	Dear colleague, I don't really know how the minister imagined he'd pay back the money for the local administration because I don't see how he's going to get his money back into the central budget. So according to those calculations made by some people who understand it better than I do. The budget deficit will increase in the following years and will already amount to 373 million kuna in 2017 and more than 470 million kuna since 2018. So basically the budget deficit is going to be increasing and the government is not answering the question of what you're going to do with a public service contract that went into effect in 1.3 and which can be sued. What about the NATO demand that you pay more money in the military alliance, in particular, will come on the agenda now that the president changes. So she doesn't have answers to any of these basic questions that are actually a priority right now and how she will then have the conditions or ways to make up for those funds to the local administration she took. Of course she won't do it except in some minimal way, then she'll justify herself, move the ball, but in any case I repeat what I said yesterday was that the minister was going to empty the budget instead of thinking first of all how to fill it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4649	Thank you very much. Next individual debate of fellow Bleženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4650	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with a co-worker. If the aim of every reform was to bring about, there is indeed every law, so I would say two important link, and that is that the aim of passing such a law and the other thing that is the implementation, what will be the implementation. What's going to be the implementation we can't know now, but we'll know in six months, a year or so. Many here were out yesterday, trusted by the minister or not trusted by the minister. It doesn't matter at all. It is important that voters in the Republic of Croatia trust this minister by giving him such confidence and his personal preferential votes, as well as by assembling this government. I, what particularly hurts me, and what bothers me, these days and yesterday and today, through the debate, heard ugly words or similar, unsatisfactory chiefs, mayors prone to this or that option, citizens themselves built objects of local importance, the minister self-initiatedly passed this tax law, and most of all it bothered me that in some way it was created as if local administrations in the Republic were not in the Republic of Croatia at all, as if two camps were created, national level and local level. So aren't all local communities, all 556 local communities not in Croatia? Shouldn't the interest of the national state level, government, parliament, all of us should be of interest to the management of quality management at local level as well. Unfortunately, it is true that through practice we had a number of situations where it was not so. Let us remember indexation, local administrations, remember the space of special state care, remember not only in a direct sense but also in an indirect sense, many local communities unfortunately could not run or have had fewer points for EU projects because of indexation. That was really a problem. Maybe that comes from a certain, uh, I'd say mistrust. But we'll know this mistrust, I'll say for, perhaps already on the first budget, or in 6 months or in a year when these objectives set by this tax reform happen or not, then we'll evaluate the success of these tax reforms. It's about implementation, as far as the goal is concerned. So I think that everyone here in the Parliament, all 151 and those across the street at Mark's square in the government and all those who act on certain duties, starting from the lowest local duties to the highest national responsibilities, the goal and interest that this law will give our citizens, how this law will be done by entrepreneurs, whether local communities will function normally and perhaps most importantly whether the Republic of Croatia's budget will be sustainable. I sincerely believe and hope that Minister Maric, his professional services, the entire government really thought this way by bringing these measures. We've also heard comments and it's done in a hurry, it's done quickly. I remember in the 8th session of this House, and I have to say here now with the passing of time with the right, there was always a remark, there were no legal proposals, because of the form we're making some conclusions on reports, we're discussing reports from the 14th, '15. Now that such remarks have been with whom I repeat with a moment of time, I agree, now the government is working too fast, so who will please everyone. Is it slow, is it too fast, right? I still hope it is too fast but very high-quality and successful. So in one word it is true, one of the colleagues said that on this side of the assembly, on the other side of the opposition, there were no concrete proposals or some concrete proposals. I must say here Mr. Lalovec has presented here a few very high-quality proposals and observations on this subject, I hope that they will also be considered and seen by the second reading. What makes me particularly happy, a communal fee or a real estate tax. All colleagues, there are here now, but slightly less, they know very well what it means in the practical sense on the ground. I'll tell you, one of the municipalities, I mean, I don't think, but I know the Primorje-Gorski County but I won't take it out on account of my local community had 32 million kuna and the salary couldn't be shared with the employees. Of course, the municipality's income was from a large utility fee. Isn't that absurd? Therefore, on behalf of the vast majority of my colleagues, I welcome first of all this measure that communal tax or real estate tax is no longer intended for consumption. Someone here said that, there would be damaged citizens, there would be no paved roads, no electrification would be done, or maintained, waste of garbage, deratization, and what else I know. Well, that's why he's on the conscience of the mayor in question, the captain to take care of it but to have the availability. Of course, there is still a number of activities to be carried out in order to have a good foothold and a good assumption of this reform to be implemented to the end. I'll get some. What about the devasted property owned by the state or without the titleholders of ownership since 1996, unfortunately, in the area of individual local administrations? Will this new law allow local administrations to charge real estate taxes and such properties? From who? In conversion... The large majority of these companies did not enter the core capital of these companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since '96 I will repeat, many DUUDI and AUDIO or who were all agencies did not register either land or any kind of property because it de facto today does not have a holder from whom the local community will charge real estate tax. There is great potential, there is indeed this new ministry that we have rightly decided that there is a Ministry of State Property really has a very big job, but even more benefits for the local communities. It is therefore very urgent and important to pass the law and resolve it in a faster and more expedient way of ownership. Is that the synchronization of cadastar books with land books or some other model? I'm not at home but really something urgent needs to be done so that these properties can really be verified and carried out in a single act and that local communities can have it as a property tax. And there's nothing, that's true, of these reforms if we realize that these are Minister Maric's tax reforms. These are the tax reforms of all of us, these governments, so I would say these parliamentary majority, these parliamentary opposition, the local communities, entrepreneurs at the end and all citizens. In this way, we can only take a positive view of new changes within the tax system. And lastly, Mr. Minister, one proposal. I will sincerely ask you until the second reading to consider the possibility of taxing real estate in the archaeological zone A. Short explanation, many owners have their own properties in the archaeological zone A, they look at them and can hardly look at them given some other laws regarding cultural heritage, archaeology and other things, without saying some interventions on them to work. That's something you should think about. And at the end of ZAMP, please amortize this host tax, let's find some solution to this unfortunate ZAMP for which the caterers much, much more than they do for these new tax measures themselves. Excuse the weather. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4651	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first replica of counterpart Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4652	Thank you, Vice President. Namely, my colleague Boban and earlier in the debate, I said that certain legal proposals have certain positive solutions that are certainly to be accepted. However, I cannot agree partly with your comment from some in the Gorski Kotar that there is no pay, and there are 30 million kunas of municipal compensation funds that can't be used. I mean, personally, you have experience, and a lot of us here won't say it's incompetent, but it's not doing a good job as mayor or mayor. That's just impossible. Furthermore, with the latest changes on the municipal economy, he could use a utility fee. But it's not a local tax issue, and I said before, I'll repeat, I'm glad now that the minister is so I reported that he is also hearing, namely the tax on construction land not in accordance with the Constitution of 2007 the Constitutional Court's ruling was just on the trail. That's one thing. The second thing is, it's not even in accordance with Article 51. The Constitution and what I have repeated by ministers introduce a tax on property, it is the most social tax, the most fair tax, and then it can be seen as one full reform. Furthermore, the same question as the water fee that goes with the utility payments together now? Will the communal fees be abolished, who will collect the water fee? It wasn't a local tax until now, and it could be. So there's a series of questions, and we didn't get answers to those questions about how it's going to work out in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4653	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4654	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, you have used my exposure to draw the minister's attention in another part of the replica in some way to some kind of problem, so I have no intention of answering it. Probably in the final statement, the minister is going to do something about it, but trust me, that's the case, and that man is right up until the end of the year, you've been working in accordance with the law. First of all, it's not in the Gorski Kotar I told the Primorje-Gorski County, then I'll tell you who it's about. And know that this colleague of mine, not anymore, but here's my friend, but your colleague, he worked very consciously and that in his budget, almost 65% of the income is a communal fee because it's a specific local community because he has a huge single factory, I'm not going to tell you what it is, and he really couldn't pay the salary of a man because almost 70% of his budget revenue was a communal fee. He'd be breaking the law until the day before he died if he'd done it like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4655	Thank you. Next replica, Rechimer Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4656	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Boban. And I voted for this government, but that doesn't mean I don't have the right to criticise and make suggestions on some legal solutions that are on the agenda. I can't trust promises, I don't trust promises. We're a legislative body, and if I suggest that for the first real estate to remain the solution we had, that young people without taxes buy the first real estate with all those expenses that are related to the contract, if I suggested that through the real estate swaps there be a tax as it was until '97. only on the difference in value and explained that it is mostly about nursing households, pensioners who have relatively large squares of the apartment, I can talk about my example. My wife and I have 97 square meters, I want a smaller apartment, someone who creates a family wants a bigger apartment. How am I supposed to pay more and I already paid taxes on that apartment and he paid his apartment, we go in exchange and we both have to pay a new tax? Why don't we go to the solutions we had? Why don't we go to the solution that real estate tax in case of a replacement apartment is the difference in market value, just that difference? We allow these young people to get right to the apartments, so those who are done, to the larger squares and pensioners, to reduce their costs of directing, renting and all that goes along with such a square. So, no matter what I support the government, I think we have the right to criticise and propose in that part of the law that we consider to be not a good solution and I can't believe the promises because we're a legislative body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4657	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4658	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, if you have closely followed my presentation in part two almost 5, 6 minutes I have devoted myself to some proposals regarding the archaeological zone A of real estate tax releases because people can't literally manage it, not even look at their real estate, I know best in my Solin what it's like. So I'm not contesting the proposal at all. But believe me, life is made up of no matter what worldview in one part of the world and the belief and that part of life, so when you give someone 100 kuna and send them something to buy, you believe that they will buy you something and bring you home. You believe he'll buy it. Will it? Will he put that 100 kuna in his pocket and take it somewhere? Now we don't know that. And in that segment, I'm telling you, it's necessary to believe in the truth. I believe that I will come home neatly after this session and I don't know if I will. I also have the right to vote, given the elections that have passed, to tell this minister and this government I trust. And if I didn't make suggestions, I would. And now and in the future. As for these proposals that you have made, especially for young people, I said here and here in my debate a series of proposals should be brought, solved by ownership relations, solved by the titleholder of ownership, the demographic laws that are necessary, which are ultimately an integral part of the ministry now, so that, in the end, I have said this, there is nothing from the reform, and now I repeat this if all of us constructive proposals here are we, and those across the road from us at Mark's square in implementation, and ultimately, all entrepreneurs, citizens, the local community, in some way, we don't catch a stick, would say our people old and all of this together already bring us at least to a level of medium-developed European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4659	Next replica, Željko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4660	Honored President. So, I mean, I've been listening to this for a long time here, and when we wake up to deal with concrete causes of things, these are just symptoms of disease, not causes of disease. Here we mentioned a grey economy that is twice as big here as in other European countries, in the EU, and where someone mentioned this morning that we are losing 7 billion kuna from the state budget annually. How do you control that? That money doesn't come into the state budget. We're talking, Mr. Boban mentioned land. Like this, why are we afraid to say nationalization? So countries where private property is respected today have developed economies, 80% of people work in private companies, medium or smaller and 50% of people work in state-owned companies, in administration, a third of them stat, free digitisation if we have 7% of the land arranged, property legal relations, walk here in Zagreb and look at it. When anyone mentioned those 490,000 people looking for a return of their property seized at the time of nationalization. Who's talking about them? No one. Or that hectare of agricultural land. What about the origin of the property? You have countries where... Introduce more than $10,000 to the state without anyone asking you the origin of the property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the money. Where will the tax money come from? Where are we gonna draw money next and cigarettes, alcohol? What's gonna happen next? Will it be for telling politically incorrect jokes? Love is gone, it's a problem, and while we don't have an effective system to solve these problems, and that effective judiciary is simple laws and mechanisms that they're going to implement, this is all a fairy tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4661	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4662	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Glasnović, that almost your observation or replica was not about this tax code, but all the topics really are about tax law, and I absolutely agree with that. You know, when an Englishman asked how in London that grass of yours kept green and he said nothing special, we planted it a hundred years old and we water it all the time, we water it every day. So we need to understand that we are a young country, still young, yes, compared to the time period since the countries were formed and created really young. And I understand that even a series of irregularities, a series of segments need to be corrected. Well, at the end of our very mentality that many of us have been raised and in some other system and system should be changed. It won't be anything if we don't change our mentality first and if the time period really doesn't do what needs to be done and it's up to all of us that every step we take, we do it right so we don't do two steps back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4663	Thank you. The next replica is Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4664	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Boban, in your discussion you mentioned and welcomed the change in actually this tax which we call the communal fee now a unique property tax and you mentioned an example of a local self-government leader who cannot cut wages because this income is extremely intended for him. However, I must comment on this from the point of view of many municipalities in Slavonia. You know that municipalities are also bound by legal provisions where they cannot pay more than 20% for the salaries of original incomes. On the other hand, it won't be a good message if, through this real estate tax, we want to raise those funds so that these municipalities can pay off that part of the salary because it's not a good message. The municipalities must be helped in a different way. But what's even more important is we have a lot of cases in Slavonia and settlements that don't have any more asphalt I don't know if you know it? So the real estate tax should certainly be bigger, I have seen here in that announcement of tax reform that will respect the state of real estate and age. However, I did not and asked the minister how much the local self-government unit will, through its representative body, be able to affect the setting of the zone, determine the status of individual settlements. We've had it so far, even the representative body could release some citizens from paying the municipal fee. Will that still be possible? Because some people who live here are mentioned in a real estate that is in itself already bad, which has little income, and they still haven't, they haven't been solved, and water supply has not been solved, their drain system has not been solved. So they don't have all those conditions that some other residents have and they'll be forced to pay a utility fee based only on the state of the property. Then it's not fair. Because if the state of property is good in either case in two settlements and this man doesn't have the conditions that he has in the other settlement, then it's certainly not a fair solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4665	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4666	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Zhagar, during this morning's time, you were speaking through one of the replicas about this segment that it is not fair that this property tax or municipal compensation is not used for purpose purposes. I'll tell you, in that community, a man in one year, in one, two, three because so many inflows of funds from a municipal fee had that he could almost arrange everything and eventually came from tax revenues he didn't have to pay in kindergarten or any social society or anyone else. So, another thing that you mentioned in the second part of your replica is the social programme and one is the obligation to tax in any segment whether real estate tax, profit tax and any other tax. At our local level, it is in one part of the state, of course, at national level for their segment of action to design a quality social programme. In the future, it will not be a problem for you to have someone who does not really have payment conditions there to help with one-time financial assistance, and you can help your fellow citizen in a number of other ways through the social programme to be free of any kind of giving or giving. But I'm telling you that what a lot of people are, I didn't have a problem either, I'm 12 years old, I didn't have a problem with a dedicated part of spending money, but believe me, there are local communities in Croatia that are communal fees over 50% of their total budget income, there are. I've been in the most senior presidency of the City Association for many years, so I know that very well, and I'll tell you later, Mr. Sagar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4667	The last replica of Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4668	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Boban, when you spoke about the property tax that has been introduced since 2018, there should be a compensation for municipal compensation. I agree with your observation that these parts should be excluded from this, so that they are located in the archaeological zone A. However, except for this problem which will be encountered by local self-government units I consider to be where and where the greater problem of resistance is. Local self-government leaders who take care of their economic development have invested their local environments in business zones. So to attract entrepreneurs to business zones, they made contracts with them where they were released for a certain number of years, at 3, 5 or 10 years. That, at least, the proposal for this new property law does not allow. And many leaders will get into big problems, so how do they regulate those contracts where they are already in advance to attract them, to be competitive, so they have freed up some of the entrepreneurs and the utility fees. Now there's real estate tax, and there's a disproportionateity, and I'm afraid if this bill stays like this, it will lead to the incompetence of local self-government units in attracting capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4669	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4670	Thank you very much. Here's while former Minister Anka Mrak-Taritash is still here, I'm going to ask her a little attention, and I looked at her earlier when I was talking about this proposal to the Minister for Real estate tax in the local community area, if she was there, I'm sorry she wasn't there, but here she is now and you've given me a chance to ask. I have suggested that I repeat that property tax in the archaeological zone and should indeed be released from paying that tax. And I'll say Zone A. Why? These are properties that almost the owner can look at his eyes and let alone manage them and his property is his property. That's why I was talking about it. You are very clear in the local community to respect fellow zones, archaeological zones A, B etc. I'm talking about and only the one I repeat to the owner can't even look at. I'm not talking about B where research is needed so you can build, work, but where Zone A is you can't look. And now you have a paradox that the border of some archaeological zone somewhere some border on one side of the country is worth caricing the figures of 200 euros, on this side next to its particle because in the archaeological zone A is worth 10 times less and no one will still have the financial resources to do so and it would be smart and logical to buy out such land particles for their needs and to revitalise archaeological and cultural heritage in the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4671	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, MP Ivan Lovrinović. Because he's not losing his right to debate. Next individual debate, Mr. Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4672	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr Vice President, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In this insidious debate, much has been said. Key messages to this reform were also told by representatives of the representatives' clubs, as well as the MOST representatives' club. In these short ten minutes, I will limit myself to several aspects of the proposed tax reforms, and I am glad that at least partially this tax reform has a delayed effect of one year, so that some open issues that are here and these, in these statements before my point of view, will be resolved in some dialogue with relevant entities, for example local self-government units. The first aspect I want to talk about concerns the Law on Local Taxes and I must say as many predecessors have said that I miss this second Law on the financing of local self-government units very much here. And if this law after the adoption of the Law on Local Taxes will actually be not sure if it will be able to be called the Finance Act at all, because it will only have that small part that now refers to income tax and income tax distribution. All the rest will almost be translated into the Law on Local Taxes. In these local taxes, it is of course an interesting property tax which was most concerned as probably in the future extremely important income to replace the municipal fee. There's a few aspects here that I don't think anyone's included in the previous presentations, if I've noticed correctly. The article 31, which discusses what is paid for in real estate tax, makes it clear what the tax can therefore be freed from. So, which are possible releases from payment. It is clearly prescribed that real estate tax is not exclusively paid on property owned by units of local self-government and of course on construction land owned by local self-government and sacral buildings. And that's one provision that speaks of what tax is not paid. According to the current regulation, municipal compensation was paid, i.e. it was not paid on a much wider spectrum of real estate. Local self-governments were also able and freed by their decisions from paying certain entities and other units of local or regional self-government. The law as I read it in this proposal assumes that real estate taxes are not exempt, is not exempt from the state with all the properties it has in the area of local self-government and are not exempt from counties with all the properties that are owned by them, which are numerous properties, so many institutions of the school type or health institution, social care institutions and others. I've watched the current regulation, and I've seen a decision in my city where I'm a member of a representative body. The communal fee is not paid by the state authorities, so the state does not pay the municipal fee and is not paid by the county for all the facilities it owns, or where it is the founder of a particular institution. According to the current legislative proposal, this property would be subject to tax, which would mean that local self-government, that cities and municipalities would make significantly more income. But I don't know if the bill's proposed intention was to burden the state budget, and especially the county budgets, since the counties are at this point, therefore the owners of secondary schools, health institutions. With very large areas of real estate, it would be an exceptional burden for the county budget. I suppose and suggest that a wider exemption be provided for all, so property owned especially by the county, and I assume that the facilities where the state is owner can also be excluded. Such a situation is now normative. Secondly, the current legal arrangement allows local self-government to release certain users, public-paying institutions. I see here only in one provision in Article 42 that it is said that the decision of the representative body must provide for conditions for socially endangered citizens who would eventually not pay that tax or be reduced. But here, one option is left open to only one category of socially endangered citizens, but not other entities that were concerned. The second question I would like to talk about is the question relating to the Value Added Tax Act. One aspect that is important to me and that tells me that it is very positive that we have kept a low VAT rate on certain important food products, on medicines, on medical equipment, on scientific journals and newspapers that come out daily. What I would like to suggest is that this category is accompanied by newspapers that are local information newspapers that come out weekly, so periodically that are now at 13%. There are a large number of 43 local information newspapers that go out in certain counties currently paying a higher value added tax rate, although by their content it is about equally informative newspapers such as those that come out daily. There is no excuse to treat this newspaper differently from those who go out daily. So these are not magazines of fun character like many who go out periodically but are entirely informative newspapers and they would argue that these newspapers are also allowed to pay VAT at 5%. It's 43 newspapers, it's over 400 journalists working in these entities, and the reduction in VAT for these entities would be about one million kuna a year, which is not a coup on the state budget. Finally, the third aspect refers to amendments to the Excise Tax Act. A question that has not been mentioned so far, which is paying excise fees for transport companies. In a number of EU Member States, therefore, freight transport companies have the possibility of returning part of the excise duty on the fuel they buy. They are more competitive and have the ability to do better business. Our association of Croatian road carriers has already repeatedly highlighted the requirement to allow them to return part of the excise duty on the purchase of motor fuel similar to other countries in the environment especially neighbouring Slovenia which frees the payment of a part of the excise duty. So it gives a refund to its road hauliers, which in recent years leads to a higher number of carriers from the Republic of Slovenia registering their company in neighbouring Slovenia, there also obtaining fuel and coming up with a spill-over of the good part of our companies in neighbouring Slovenia, which leads to the growing inconclusiveness of our carriers in relation to others who can do more competitive business because of the significant return of excise duties on fuel which is the most important cost of these companies. So much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4673	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First respected representative, Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4674	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Podolnjak, yes, counties pay except for high school which are founders of county wages, if the founder of JLS then does not pay because it is owned by JLS except because it may be a difference in Varazdin but I know that the county pays for me. In fact, the real estate tax income projection projected 20% more revenue in the bill and is probably based on certain properties that have not been charged with municipal compensation so far. This is primarily thought of building land. Now, the problem of the liberation that you mentioned, yes, I would ask the question why, let's say JLS can't free voluntary fire companies. We are all aware of their responsibility and that this is the only operational force in many environments in the Republic of Croatia and that it must always be available and mainly financed from the budget of local self-government units. Furthermore, the releases specifically, attracting investors in business areas at local level is not easy and we had to give certain benchmarks as cities and municipalities, and in particular five annual delays, i.e. non-payment of municipal compensation as one of the benefits. The second year of last 2018 will have to be cut into a real estate tax that was not visible anywhere in the contract in his business plan. We'll look irresponsible as local self-government, and what's worst will turn out to be a state like I won't say what. In such situations, one level of greater flexibility should be left to take over JLS water commitments further in that part. So if someone was released until a certain contractual term, they'd still be released by that deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4675	Thank you. The honourable representative Robert Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4676	Thank you. I think we have a principled common ground. I was saying I may not know about all the local self-governments, but I do know about my town of Varazdin in which I have been a member of the city council for many years, the largest number of objects in which the property or state or county is located in the area of the town of Varazdin, so almost all secondary schools, health facilities, etc. and they are now, according to the city's decision, all freed from paying the municipal fee and many other entities you have spoken of, therefore, and voluntary fire companies, which is logical because it is in the interest of the city to free the payment of the communal fee of all these properties. I would therefore ask the legislator to give certain flexible solutions to local self-government to allow it to free it from paying taxes by a decision of the representative body of a given category and trust me, I do not need to be afraid that local self-government will abuse that right. It will free up the payments of those important public entities that carry out a particular public purpose or which are particularly important for the local community or for the promotion of economic development. It is one of the instruments available to local self-government that is very important and in many areas is precisely this mechanism and used. In this respect, the specific Article should provide that, however, local self-government through a representative body may provide that local self-government through a representative body may, however, provide for certain exemptions or reductions in real estate tax based on a decision by the representative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4677	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4678	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Podolnjak, you know, in many local communities, unfortunately you have objects, including land for which the owner, any county, any state does not care. Especially when it comes to state, county more or less, there is cooperation quite well, I believe in many local communities but there are such cases, you have cases that unfortunately there are after Dalmatian Zagora or somewhere else unfortunately abandoned regional or elementary schools that are the founder of the county. And when a local community asks for that space to be used or something, it may have a problem. It is good that in certain segments and according to counties there is this property tax but for the state in any case because the state of this hour unfortunately for a large number of its properties does not know at all whether there are any without talking about the real estates that I was talking about, there are still no titleholders and the state should be registered and still based on the 1996 law and it has not been registered and there is a very great potential for the companies that went through the conversion and privatisation, so these facilities have not entered the core capital of the companies, they remain in local communities today. And you know how mastodons were until the '90s, so they had their cinemas and their cafeterias and restaurants, the company, didn't get into basic capital because the new owner didn't need it, the state didn't register under the '96 law. and the local community has no use, only damage from such objects. I agree for certain categories, educational or some others that are in full function, think about it but for a large, large number of mainly state-owned assets indeed to force the state to bring it into office or with the local community to conclude some other contract is necessary to introduce that property tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4679	Thank you. The honourable representative Robert Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4680	Yeah, you're gonna need to think carefully about everything you're saying. There's probably a lot of real estate that the state doesn't care about, and I know, and in my town I often see properties that have been abandoned for years, so in the middle of a big city that hasn't been rented for years and I wonder if it would have been much better if the state had decided to entrust it to the local self-government to try to rent these properties in place of the state. But for example, as we look at our decision on communal compensation, all military offices are freed from payment of municipal compensation. So it's about big property complexes that are free of payments, and that's not small amounts, so let's say this is the type of object that should certainly be released. Many of these facilities are later committed to local self-government and here I am talking about a partner relationship between the state, the county and the city. You know that we tried in our own time, that the Parliament tried and passed a law that wanted to tax all those property owners who abandoned and did not use, but the Constitutional Court said that we can't do that, that we can't oblige the owners to bring in the purpose of the property and these are the abolished articles, it just seems to me that the Law on the financing of local self-government. We haven't found any quality substitute for how to actually use these untapped potentials, bring in the purpose, these very properties that we have at our disposal in many local self-governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4681	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4682	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, we are already here on the second day discussing a package of tax laws we call tax reform. And there were all sorts of suggestions here for good, good remarks and good suggestions. But I've been thinking this morning since I gave up my debate and that's what inspired me, the very purpose of this debate of the future message of the prime minister sent yesterday from Sibenik that his government will not give up any segment of the entire package of tax laws, which would translate into that no matter how much we discuss, no matter what we say, no matter what we say, this government is going to accept any proposal from the MPs. But regardless of the prime minister's announcements that the remarks will not be adopted, I think that for the sake of the public and for the sake of the citizens it is necessary to repeat and point to certain shortcomings in these proposals. And I'll only point out a few. We are witnessing in a pre-election campaign recently, and then when the government was formed, the debate on the new government's programme that HDZ and the new ruling majority were full of demographics, demographic policies, preventing the emigration of young people, stopping brain drains, that they would stop at it, that they would launch measures that would change that. And then the first measure they introduce is the introduction of a first real estate tax, in a country where young people live with their parents up to 33 years old. This measure will surely encourage this trend to change, to keep young people from buying apartments, to stop coming out of the country, to reduce the process. Then when we pointed out that, here's a fellow from the MOST talking yesterday, says O.K., tax on first real estate, it's an average of about 20 to 30 thousand kuna for every young family, but it's going to be compensated through their salaries, they're going to be paid. The average salary of young people in Croatia up to 30 years is 6178 kuna. With this package of tax reforms, these people's salaries will grow 56 kuna. So what they pay through taxes will be compensated over the next 30 years with this salary increase. Then I got the answer yesterday through the replicas, he says, no okay, that salary you said, it's not that, but it's, it's going to come back to a little bit more engineers, young doctors, educated people we have. And the average salary of a young doctor in Croatia is 8.5 thousand kuna, his salary will grow with this reform of 98 kuna, and he will only need 20 years to compensate for the introduction of the first real estate tax. Most of the measure will certainly not encourage the stay of young people in Croatia, demographic policy and should give it up. The second thing, we are all witnesses and it is often said here today that tourism is our strongest branch of the economy in Croatia. And all the time it's been said that this is a full tax reform and that it can't be touched into any single segment, because if it's touched into any single segment that the entire reform is going to collapse, that there's going to be an imbalance. Well, gentlemen and tourism is a complete activity. You can't separate hotels in tourism, separate hospitality because as soon as you tap into one segment, the whole system collapses. So hoteling is one branch of activity called Croatian tourism. The basis for making our decisions should be, when it comes to tourism, a tourism development strategy. What's she saying? She speaks secure taxes that will not change over the years, encourage investment in tourism but certainly also raise the quality of guests and the quality of our destinations in Croatia. Now, gentlemen, is our goal in the future to have board guests who will be staying in our hotels for 20, 30 euros, to consume food that is spaghetti bolognaise on pension consumption, or are our target guests who will stay in Croatia for a week, pay for sleeping 150 to 200 euros and consume a quality offer in our restaurants. The second thing is, it's not fair that the caterers will pay the highest price of these reforms. Also, the absurd that is now proposed in a compromise after these pressures is that pension spending goes to 13% and out-of-board to 25. We here, I come from the Primorje-Gorski County, we in a small town in the Primorje-Gorski County have a great example of it, so we have a hotel that has the capacity of some 30 accommodation units that has opened a famous restaurant for years and 80% of its business is based on the restaurant service. This way the people who sleep at his place will pay for lunch I don't know 1,000 kuna and those who come out to that restaurant will pay it 1200 kuna. This is also a complication for hosts who will have to introduce separate programs, which will have to run separate bookkeeping and issue double accounts. The minister said last week on the Tourism Committee, and he repeated it here yesterday in the debate that our guests are not interested in how much VAT they are but interested in the price of the service. It is true but certainly that the price, the amount of VAT, affects the final price of the service because it is not the same to the host whether of the 1000 VAT will be 130 or 250. And it will certainly affect the amount of prices. The other thing that is very bad is the reduction of powers or the abolition of the taxpayer. And when we see what the taxpayers have been doing so far, what are the cases and the persons he has exposed, and also when we see that it is the policy of this government that is not implementing the Law on Sports and then when we connect it to the Tax UskoK and the ones that he has discussed there that we cannot come to a second conclusion that, by abolishing the taxpayers, this authority and HDZ return services to their donors from the election campaigns. It has also been said all along that we do not have enough investment, that this reform will boost investments that are said to be the biggest in tourism just over the past years and we are abolishing tax relief on reinvested profits. Is this measure going to boost investment? I doubt it. It was also discussed throughout the discussion when these problems were raised about the compensation or compensation of those losses but nowhere to be said. My friend Klaric is the only one who laughs and waves. I'm wondering how you and the caterers and the people who care about this county will explain that you've raised your hand for this one. That's what I look forward to and that's what I'm waiting for, and you're laughing at them. But that's what he says about you. But still no one is saying that these measures will compensate, and then on the other hand, if you take something and you say you're going to give it back to them, why are you taking it away from them? I appeal once again, despite Prime Minister Plenkovic's announcements that you will not respect the remarks, to give up the VAT increase in catering, to give up the first real estate tax and to give up the suspension of the tax system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4683	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the individual representative of Damir Maček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this set of tax laws has over 1,000 articles, it is very extensive, so 15 laws and impossible to focus on all topics equally, so the topic I will talk about in this debate focuses primarily on local self-government and regional development. Therefore, the reduction in income tax rates from 25 to 24% to 210 thousand kuna per year, or from 40 to 36% above 210 thousand kuna per year, and by increasing the personal deduction to 3800 kuna units of local self-government will lose 1.5 billion kuna in fact. By reducing the overall tax rate from 20 to 18%, i.e. for those taxpayers up to 3 million kuna to 12%. The local self-government unit will lose 300 million kuna. By removing the relief from reinvested profits and, in particular, by eliminating regional reliefs for areas of special public concern from the first and second groups, other than financial resources, local self-government loses competitiveness in attracting investments, facts. The loss, loss of tax on a company or the name of the local community loses an additional 150 million kuna fact. Compensation, I cannot unfortunately share that enthusiasm, that popular faith of colleagues and colleagues from HDZ who believe in the word of the Minister or Government. I wish I could, but I can't, because the overall explanation of these documents, so what we have here on the table, and they're talking about tax reform compensation is literally explained in one single sentence and it's going to be compensated to local self-government units from the state budget. How, in what way, from which items? In the debate today and yesterday in this House, it was suggested that direct transfers from the state budget would be made. It's about half a year before the local elections and me, so let's just as you believe that I have doubts that you will, therefore, have transfers to those municipalities that are not therefore compatible authorities at the county or which are not compatible authorities at the state level. Because from the example of bad practice, we who have such experiences cannot, and not doubt, that we who are not compatible will not get those resources. So, on the question that these are actually excessive compensations, I do not believe that this is a compensation, for example, when it is offered, or a proposal for which real estate tax is fully moved, i.e. municipal, i.e. to the budget of the units of local self-government. It's not a real compensation like real compensation reduction from 5 to 4%. The damage it will make to the decision that there is no relief in buying the first real estate. The proposer himself in this, so the proposal for these laws presents information as to how the Tax Administration annually receives some 250 thousand documents relating to the transport of real estate. This is how the centralized data tells us very little or tells us nothing about the value of that tax, which imposes. Because, by any chance, this data is sorted by regions, so let's see in which regions the traffic of real estate is higher at which prices. I am convinced, therefore, that such a breakdown would show that the coastal part of Croatia has far more real estate traffic, that there are far higher prices and that giving may partially compensate municipalities and cities in the coastal part of Croatia, but they will be least affected by these tax reforms anyway. Further real estate tax. There was a speech, my colleague Batinic was talking about one problem, and this is a problem, let's say that many of the municipalities and cities that invested in their development, i.e. they invested in business zones, and to attract investors, they were freed from municipal fees. With this tax, this possibility does not exist and therefore local self-government, i.e. those leaders will be in trouble unless otherwise resolved. And the proposer himself is projecting, so by introducing this new tax that needs to replace the communal fee, nothing more important will happen financially to the units of local self-government, so it will neither lose nor win. However, the capacity of units of local self-government by who knows which path will be bureaucratically busy by measuring, calculating, going to the cadastre and grantovna instead of dealing with EU funds, so also those things that enrich local budgets. I deeply agree with the need to relieve citizens and entrepreneurs alike. I agree, of course, and no excess can agree with that, so entrepreneurs need to be free of parafiscal burdens. However, if we take into account the fact that in this country of 100% income, 95% of the revenues are the revenues of the central state, and that only 5% of the income is the income of local self-government, then I as a representative and as head of local self-government, and also as a citizen is asking one logical question, which is whether, therefore, it is worth saving on this 5% or that 95%. Because in the end, by projecting myself, I will repeat once again the local self-government is losing over two billion kunas, and the central budget is losing 400 million kuna. If that's not fair, then I don't know what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4685	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Mladen Karlic. Here you go. He's gone? No, he's here. Excuse me. He didn't get up fast enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4686	Yes, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, my colleagues here are a few words when it comes to taxes. Of course, it does not cause joy, happiness, satisfaction, because tax is something that is forced to actually be paid to the state, every country in various ways of history, and of course it gets some sort of counterservice directly. So it actually gets the state to solve those other public problems, that is, the obligations it has, which are education, health, public security and, of course, a lot of others. And that's why it's important that we have taxes. This tax reform that's ahead of us, which we've been talking about for two days, can actually go in two directions. It can go in the direction of tax burden or tax charge. And fortunately for us all, this reform goes towards tax discharge. And I think that if we could all forget for a moment that we belong to any party, that we belong to any option, or that we have any particular interest that we advocate, or a group of citizens, if we could imagine that we are now all representatives of Croatian citizens and nothing else, then I'm sure that everyone would accept this reform because it really goes towards dispensing citizens, in order to relieve the economy by actually helping the economy, which is the goal of every country, especially after years of the difficult economic crisis, to try to find a model to ensure economic recovery and how to ensure stable economic development, how to bring employment to people, how to actually enable what is still our most important remaining young, educated people in Croatia not to leave us. And that's why sometimes I'm surprised when some MPs are fighting high wages, against actually those who are going to get maybe a little more of this tax reform. So it's clear to all of us here that this tax reform almost doesn't take anyone, especially those with smaller salaries, those with pensioners, those who are poorer, and in fact this discharge doesn't increase anyone's wages, it just relieves obligations, and so indirect pay can be increased in one part. And we do not need to worry that the educational people of the IT that are missing in Croatia, who, of course, leave for four, five times the salary, doctors, specialists, engineers, electricians or all the other educational people leave because they have up to four times the salary in the EU in other countries. So isn't it the desire of this tax reform to help at least one part of a small segment to increase pay and thus actually allow them to stay here. Maybe that's why you'll change your mind, someone might not. Why won't they? Not because this salary, they may be paid in part and satisfied but they are not satisfied with their lack of perspective so far, had no hope of getting better in the Republic of Croatia and therefore getting ready and going out with their families. We just through this reform want to restore that hope, give hope that it can be better. I guess and I believe it's actually a start. I am pleased that this tax reform has come this quickly, that we in the Assembly are very soon after not a month to discuss an important segment, an important reform that is important for Croatian citizens, but this is the beginning of other reforms. From the reforms of the judiciary that must go after this very quickly, from the reform of education that is very important if we want young people to stay to get a job, we need to change the system of education and find the education that will be found on the market that will find their job on the labour market. And that is why I am glad that this important reform is here in front of us because it relieves citizens, relieves entrepreneurs, encourages the economy, in some way removes weights from the economy at least one part and, of course, gives incentives to farmers which are very important to us, especially in Slavonia, but gives us one tax stability, tax security and thus enables potential investors to come from outside but of course also those in Croatia who, with more stable tax conditions and justice, will safely invest in this area. What concerns me as mayor as much as many others at this point is that two years ago, we had a tax reform that was much worse or didn't take care of local self-government, so we lost about a billion and 800 million kuna, let's get about 30% compensated. But I also remember the vice-president of the Greek government who tried to explain to us the measures he would compensate for, and we saw that he himself was aware that there would be no compensation as planned. And that's why it's very important to take care of local self-government, actually cities and municipalities that's where citizens live, that's the life of Croatia, and we have to take care of those areas especially in those border areas, border areas and in municipalities and cities that people don't leave us from these areas. If we do not help them through this reform, but later and through other reforms, I believe we will have problems with national security at our borders. And so here I am asking the Minister to pay serious attention to the co-workers, and the next to be the Law on Local Self-Government to provide us with the very means that we have already lost once and in a very large amount, so that this does not happen again, in order to preserve the stability of our cities. Because these original incomes from local self-government aren't just revenues that matter to us for work I don't know about wages but other institutions are about us, like the Red Cross, I don't know if anyone mentioned it. The Red Cross we also have an obligation to finance and the Service of Search and Work and Aid which they provide to the endangered, so that's something that we must by law... if we lose these original incomes to them automatically reduce them. Then there is the fire department and various others that I am not counting right now, but we are tied up and therefore it is important that these revenues remain because, of course, the credit debt of cities is then questionable or diminished and therefore it is important that this reform be as high-quality as possible and to include that in the next step regardless of the promises to be fulfilled through the law that we expect. Maybe if there is a possibility or not, maybe this is one of my thinking and colleagues whether there is a possibility that part of the VAT in a certain percentage that is achieved in the area of local self-government units or the county to reroute it by law and be part of the income of local self-government. Here's something we can talk about and which... probably in the next... Here's how much I'd like it. In any case, it is good that this reform has come and that it will foster other reforms and that we will make it possible for a better life, bring hope back to the citizens, in particular I am telling the help and the economy to lead to employment that we all expect at least 5 to 10,000 new employees, if not more in the coming years, and I say, and especially the remaining young educated people, which is extremely important to us throughout Croatia, especially on the edges of the peripheral parts, eastern parts of Croatia to have security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4687	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused a large series of replicas again. Obviously, we all stay here till morning, so let's start in a row. The first replica will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4688	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You are obviously on the trail of what your Prime Minister, Prime Minister Plenkovic, has said, that there will be no marked remarks, and then you think maybe we shouldn't debate for long, but good. It's good to follow your president's lead. Dear colleague, you said you were surprised at the MPs that the MPs were against the salary hike. I have not heard here in these two days anyone that is against salary increases, and you speak especially in the context and you said that at the beginning of your debate and at the end of your debate that these increases will in particular contribute to young educated people who leave Croatia for higher wages abroad. Now, look at it this way. I just said in my debate, the average salary of young people up to 30 years in Croatia is 6 thousand 180 kuna and it is without this measure of professional training. These young people will be paid to grow 56 kuna through this reform. Young educated people you talk about, doctors, engineers, etc. They have a salary of about 8 and a half thousand kuna. They will be paid by this reform to raise 96 kuna. Let us take these young ones, though rare, with salaries of about 10 thousand kuna, their wages will rise to 143 kuna. Now, on the one hand, we raise our salaries and we hope that they will remain, and on the other hand, we're introducing a tax on their first real estate. So, this young man is going to get a salary of 56 kuna, but he's going to have to pay 20 to 30 thousand kuna tax on the first real estate. That increase will compensate him over the next 29 years, so 29 years will be zero. Well, it would be better if we didn't touch anything – if we left the tax on their first real estate, I believe they'd be more satisfied and even if they didn't have a 50 kuna salary increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4689	Thank you very much. Comrade Djujic, I haven't heard what the Prime Minister was saying in Sibenik, but I've been here all day, and I've heard well that you seem to me now for the fifth time you've already repeated exactly the same thing. Well, you probably think that we or we don't all hear well together, or I don't know – I won't assume another thing about what you think about your colleagues. All right. In any case, please, colleague Karlic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4690	Thank you. Well, I must admit that I've heard, unfortunately, this colleague who has repeatedly mentioned that the problem of increasing the salaries of those rich -- he's not here right now, right -- but that's why I've actually emphasized it because I've heard it more than once from my colleagues, but he's not here right now at this point, so good. Of course, I just don't see why it's a problem, because Mr. Hlori is -- now he's not here, so maybe he's not -- but we're talking about it, but he's also fighting the pensioners who would have bigger pensions. But not to them, the finance ministry, or tax reform, increased wages, but only reduced liabilities, so that's something we said that has no connection. So it's no one, but why wouldn't our pensioners have big pensions? So those who have large pensions will then have more payment, more consumption, and thus increase the state budget, will increase the ability to produce if they spend some product and pay it, and thus actually increase production, increase the number of employees. Someone's doing it, someone's doing it directly. As for young people, well, I, if we go like this, means with those who are beginners who have these six thousand kunas or eight that won't have much more pay. But they have hope, they have faith that the state, that the Croatian government is doing something for them, that it is trying to facilitate them, that it is trying to increase wages, that it is actually trying to reduce obligations and thus helping their companies to do better business, that a better climate is being created, and that will enable them to make sure later on, and increase the wages whether through laws, whether through the employer himself, because he is the one who will decide whether to have bigger salaries or not. And I'm convinced through these people who are leaving who have a great chance of getting a job outside of Croatia, I'm sure we need them here, too. The tax on the first real estate, well, we've heard that multiple times already, it's like this one calculation that seems catastrophic, but actually it's not exactly like that. Because if you only consider that someone is now -- somewhere there was an example on TV -- an apartment of 600 thousand kuna, he will pay 24,000 kuna to this. Whoever has 600 thousand kunas will have 24 thousand. And of course that the Croatian government will through the measures, through credit subsidies, find a way to reduce that and these... as it actually decreases to 1.2% or try to free it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4691	The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4692	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Karlic, you said this reform is hardly taking anything from anyone. However, this reform should take, above all, those who make a lot of money. Because they're not just making money because they're capable and they're skilled and they're intelligent and they're doing good business, they're making money amongst other things and they're making money thanks to the society they exist in. So they're actually making money on all of us. We are all users of some services, and these people make a living in a complete society, and that's why they have to pay back more to that society. As a result, I believe that profit tax should be put in certain gross profit classes, not income. So in terms of gross profits, these classes could be divided into three different profit taxes – 12, 18 and 25%. Why don't those who make a lot of money like that? banks that do not raise loans outside, but earn money from Croatian citizens, so they invest money from Croatian citizens, and on the basis of that money they earn their large profits, why not pay 25% of the income tax because they earn huge money? So it should be sometime. As for the first real estate tax, I'm absolutely against it. It's not a good move, and I think it should be forgotten.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4693	Thank you. The honourable representative Karlic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4694	Thank you. Mr. Alexic, I said, I'm saying he's not taking anyone, but he's just making it easier, he's actually liberating in some way. In my opinion, those who have higher salaries pay a lot and more taxes. That's why it's fair. I think the tax is fair. One who has a lower salary doesn't pay taxes at all. So you don't take anything from him, you can't take it from him. But it's not the tax system that makes him pay less. It's the employer's fault, it's his schooling. Some other reasons are wrong than the one who has a higher salary. In principle, of course, there are always certain exceptions that are not. In that sense, I think that one who has a higher salary, that pays a much higher tax, and that's logical and that's fair. Why, if we're reducing him, means if tax reform reduces his obligations, of course the employer can give him a higher salary, but he doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4695	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4696	Mr. Carlic, I've been listening to your exposure very carefully. Please ask our minister to do everything possible to make this tax reform as high as possible, to ask him to take into account young people so that they stay, to get a job, to have a perspective and to pray for these investments to be as significant and more productive and comprehensive as possible. Well, here I fully agree with you I just wanted to say when we talk or when we hear about investments or when we read it, then we always think it's the introduction of some new equipment, new technologies, the development of some new products, services, increased competitiveness, etc. But when they hear it or read it, the young people are unemployed and they are somewhere over 100,000, then their first thought is that they are new jobs and greater employment, and the second is their immediate thought I remain under this Croatian sky. That's what young people think, which is perfectly normal. What am I saying? I'm saying that both you young and all of you unemployed and all of our future that you stand for has the right to be in place under the Croatian sun. And that's why I would appeal to you as a member of the comet of this majority section of Parliament to advocate not touching the relief for the invested profit. And for our minister, I would have had one question, he wasn't there when MP Lucic said that you never thought you'd raise the VAT above 5% for bread, milk and other, but that you deliberately threw it to us as an opposition to have something to discuss. So I'm wondering if you've applied that joke to this investment investment relief, or if that's where you're going with the increase? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4697	Thank you. I can see from that part of the question sent to my colleague Matjana that he has nothing to answer. And the other one was sent to the minister as well. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4698	My colleague Karlić, I answered the line the moment you mentioned the businessmen and the measures that will be approached in some way by the investments. I share and can understand the concerns of all of my fellow commissioners, the mayor of local self-government, which brings new measures? Well, even in my town, we've done all kinds of calculations, which will mean our city. But from a personal example, I've been doing it for 11 years when we've made out of only a few companies an industrial zone now at this point with 140 companies and I've been at construction sites this morning, new 6.7 plants are being raised. When I talk to investors, especially foreigners, they're comfortable with the land, the price, the position of everything, but one of their frequent questions was, can you guarantee me that these conditions will be for the next 5 to 10 years? At that moment, there was no reason why here in this House constant changes in laws, it was so messy not only about the situation and the ownership of the grant, the catastra all but about these very things we're talking about right now. If this offers a complete solution to that problem, I support it. And I'm sure everything isn't ideal and 100% correct, but we'll be able to fix it on the walk. But simpler, making it easier for the economy to invest as easily as possible is good. My colleague Djujic told me at one point that I laughed at him, I didn't laugh at him, but I laughed at the amount of pulsism I hear here in the debates in the Assembly when they seem kind of worried about the caterers, so we mention the losses in the budgets of the local self-government units. We didn't share the same concern when we took down the status of the mountain-mounted area and took over 50 million kunas from Gorski Kotar. How many guests we have closed down, not just them, but how many people in the area we have disabled normal life and cities and municipalities maintaining, building infrastructure. These are the problems of life we all face. And if this whole package of measures allows for better, easier and security for the investor who invests in any case should support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4699	A colleague, Djujic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. What's the point of injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4700	Thank you, Mr. President. Injured point, Article 238. Rules of Procedure. So, my colleague Klaric wasn't talking about the subject that he was discussing because he was responding to a replica of me and he had the opportunity to contact me in my debate on the replica, but my colleagues. In his replica, he speaks to me. And when he mentioned Gorski Kotar then he could say that he voted against the law that brought those Gorans back to the end of the 7th convocation of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4701	Now, if you'll excuse me, you're taking advantage of the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. And my colleague Karlic was talking about the subject. We talk about tax issues all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4702	Okay, he's replicated the wrong person.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4703	All the time. Well, you've replicated the wrong person, so nothing. I didn't warn you or him. ... Here, you have anything else to say to me? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on. Comrade Djujic, I now give you a warning about this. Here you are, dear colleague Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4704	Here's just a short fellow answer, right here's me if this tax reform is achieved, if we just experience what we all want and that's the stability of these tax laws afterwards one security judicial and, of course, the reduction or efficiency of bureaucratic structures are I think then we can expect real businessmen who will happily invest outside of Croatia here on our premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4705	Thank you. We now have the next replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4706	Thank you, Chairman. During the past debates, you have warned that the dignity of the Croatian Assembly of Representatives of the Living Wall should be preserved, and now you have said that we will not be here until morning, which is why you have reduced this dignity because it turns out that we are wasting our time here. So please don't warn us like that anymore. We want to participate in the debate as much as in the morning. And to you, Mr. Representative, I don't know where you've been reading documents that are not being taken from anyone, I don't know if you've read them at all, because if you're taking funds from special care areas, if you're taking people who are going to lose jobs, if the category of small taxpayer is abolished, if you're introducing a tax on the first real estate that young families are going to cost between 30 and 50 thousand kuna, if entrepreneurs are not allowed to reinvest the profits how is it possible not to take anyone? On the other hand, you're given 800 kunas, and I'm asking now what are you doing with those 800 kunas? And here you go now outside the Parliament people are digging through the trash, giving him only eight kunas, five times they'll thank you, they'll wave to you until you're out of sight, saying you're giving it to all the wrong people, in the completely wrong place, and that's the problem. So it's taken, and then when given, it's given to people who have instead of giving to people who don't have and who cry for our help. If we are a social state, and we are at the top of the Croatian Constitution, we should take care of such things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4707	Thank you. My colleague Karlić... respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4708	I may have expressed myself wrongly in some way that it is not, but in principle this reform is dispensing, meaning it is liberating in some way, but in order to maintain a stable state budget, so that the state can give otherwise to the socially vulnerable, to those who have a larger number of children, through various other laws, so that part of the funds will be given back to the citizens because, in fact, the state budget works most of the way. What is given to those who have, you say is taken by those who do not. So tax reform can't take whoever has a small salary because he's completely freed because we're only talking about tax reform here, and otherwise we're giving citizens. We give through the welfare system any state, whether through the Ministry of Social Welfare, whether through the city budgets, through the social services department, social care so we have to find a way. And it can't be tax reform that leads to care... it has to be socially sensitive, but it has to be made possible in other ways or other laws and other areas must be allowed to help all socially endangered. Of course you don't think we're the ones who aren't socially sensitive, though, just the other way around. I think we're much more socially sensitive than we think. But this time we're only talking about tax laws, taxes. Taxes are never in that sense socially sensitive, they have to be socially sensitive as much as we do, right, but they're always like that that they take, that those who have to fill something, something actually like the state budget was some other area. In this regard, we must have other laws and therefore must come eventually if other reforms are needed to help all those who cannot handle this tax reform in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4709	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4710	You are the leader of local self-government, but all reforms, all governments, any tax areas, any other areas have simply wiped out, as if they don't exist, there's a problem. The problem is centralization. So I repeat again, centralisation is only a few cities, only the city of Zagreb is central, it is seen by the development of the city of Zagreb, but when you go outside Zagreb a few kilometers, and an example when you go towards Dubrovnik from Zagreb, you pass through Lika, up to the right of Gorski Kotar, Dalmatinska Zagora, Zadar zagorje, it is a disaster. But the fact is that everyone who comes in 2014, so in 2014, the Regional Development Act and the Injustice Index, these neighborhoods are confused, literally in Gorski Kotar, someone mentioned the mayors, the mayors don't have as much funds as they've been taken for winter service, as well as my Chetinski end. But if this government comes before, it means Milanovic did it, and when Oreshkovic came here too, there is a minister among us, he was Minister Tolusic, they said there is a new indexation going on but in this year 2017 it begins. Now that the new government is appointed, the same minister is now in 2018, so it's no good to lie to the people, either from the left or from the right. That people didn't deserve to be lied because these young ones are leaving. But obviously in Croatia's politics, the easiest thing to do is lie. I don't know, someone's gonna tell you not to tell the truth or the half truth. The fact is that these ends are forgotten, unjustly taken, and they get nothing with neither these tax reforms nor those tax reforms that they did from 23% to 25% of those parts. This puts national security at risk, one third of Croatia is emptying the only thing around Zagreb. If things don't change not only... some positive effects of this reform but in general, if reforms in other ministries, other resources this reform will only... harrassor and poverty...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4711	Thank you. The honourable representative Mladen Karlic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4712	Thank you. Mr. Bulj, I completely agree with a great deal of what you just said about centralization and what we're all up against, or we're all fighting for decentralisation of local and regional self-government. And of course that's why we expect the new Law on Local Self-Government to take care of it as soon as possible because that's exactly what I'm saying life is going on in local self-government or municipalities of cities, and we need to support it in all ways, strengthen it, strengthen people to have reason to stay in this area. I also agree with you on the development indices because the city of Vinkovci from which I come has got an index of 89% of the European average, it's terrible, it's a sign that we're really developed almost as 89% of the European average, it's terrible, it's a sign that we're really developed almost as European cities and I'm not sure that's true, I wish that's true, so I think we need to change that as soon as possible. And of course I say leaving people, especially from the edges of Croatia from the eastern borders and we see it from Ilock to numerous municipalities, to those areas where the flood was that 30 to 40% of people live less in these settlements, in these municipalities and cities, somewhere even 50%, and that's what's not good and that's what we have to stop, stop. This is the beginning, I say this is the first, and I am convinced that further reforms must be carried out that will take care of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4713	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4714	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Karlic, you stressed in your debate that this tax reform is actually a prerequisite for the launch of all other reforms. I wouldn't agree with you here. I think any reform must be led to say from those starting points that matter,... education, health system or other systems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, here is Minister Maric, in his performances, spoke of 5 priority issues that he must address, primarily the budget, it is tax reform, it is the management of public debt and the problem of the Swiss franc. And I hope it's not, when we talk about write-offs, banks, their risky loans that it's not really a counterservice related to the Swiss franc. But what you emphasized is the remaining young educated people, and that's the 5th task Minister Maric has to carry out and that's a union negotiation because in 2009, Minister Maric, as secretary of state, just participated in those negotiations, when they were cemented in fact by the basis and he said that if three quarters in a row grew, the GDP would be more than 2% that it would be activated. That's what I think is two billion kunas somewhere. And that is the key issue of the absence of both our doctors and teachers and employees of everyone in the public sector who are educated people who do not have this salary level to be caught by this tax reform in order to raise their salary. And that's what objective circumstances are. And I know that Minister Maric must not be easy right now because there are a lot of demands. But all you're saying is that through tax reform, fiscal policy is not a good thing. All those who can influence with all reforms should be involved in order to improve the situation. And as far as you're concerned, you've been talking about the local self-governments that have lost, I think your colleague Klaric, but Slavonia, 100 units have entered the support system,... 152 total a 100 in Slavonia which significantly increased the incomes of these units of local self-government and as Slavonac I had to tell you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4715	The honourable representative Karlic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4716	Thank you. I agree with most of the exposure, sir. I wanted to say that, that means that this reform that came first can only be an incentive and that as soon as other reforms start, that is to encourage fellow ministers to reform these reforms if they are not already in the works or if they are not working to get them started just because of that, the overall development and economy and in fact life, improving the quality of life of citizens in Croatia, and I especially say the rest of the young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4717	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4718	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Karlic, I agree with most of what you said. At one point you mentioned in your debate that a part of the return on funds to local communities might also go through a part of the value added tax. Well, I'm a little skeptical here to actually make those local communities who need the most help and get it given how registered value added tax bonds are. It would be hard to see at all how much of this tax has been collected in certain local communities, and in this way it would again, it seems to me much more of these funds have gone to those local environments that may be more advanced and have more resources than certain municipalities in these areas where you and I come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4719	Thank you. The honourable representative Karlic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4720	I agree, just this is one proposal that came in laymanically, I'm a doctor, I'm not an economist, I'm just thinking, since VAT is a generous income, here's a state budget, maybe, it would have to be a minister, meaning his associates make models if that one part of VAT, I don't know how in other countries but I know in the Netherlands that the state actually returns 40% of the funds to local self-governments and that actually they do projects so unfortunately here we don't have such, still this power economic that the state budget could help local self-government units directly financially, of course, for projects. But this is just a thought that, of course, the minister will see if there is a possibility or if there is any other model perhaps better and better quality to help local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4721	Thank you. It wasn't the last replica after all. It's the last of Damir Matjan's distinguished representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4722	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I fully agree with you when you said you shouldn't be afraid of rich people. ... I don't agree with those who say that 15 thousand kuna is a big salary, for example, for a engineering engineer who designed a 5m-euro machine or a top surgeon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm not one of those who thinks that... Such income should be particularly taxed because, in my opinion, it will lead to a drain of high-quality labour in those countries where these people will be paid fairly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I also believe that entrepreneurs do not need to be overly taxed and that they should not be afraid of wealthy entrepreneurs because exactly the ambition of entrepreneurs is what this country needs and what can first get us out of the crisis. But you said, "Dear colleague, this tax reform doesn't take anyone away." And I'll repeat, four billion kunas to local self-government. And I am afraid that it is this fact that all the positive effects this tax reform will have that will be annulled by preventing this capillary development of the Republic of Croatia through units of local self-government which is essential for Croatia. And so I thought, in fact, that before this full tax reform, it was necessary to come up with a full reform of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4723	Thank you. The honourable representative Karlic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4724	In that one act I may have mispronounced, not taking the citizens that I wanted to say, not taking any of the citizens because that's what my wish was at that moment to say. Maybe I didn't point out what he was referring to. Of course, it is clear that those who have a higher salary must, of course, take more taxes from them, and that is what is actually as just as tax reform can be just. But the important thing is that in some ways it's neutral, just, and of course it can be socially sensitive. I'm up for it means that those people who really do serious work, who do work professionally that other or great people can't work,... must be paid, of course they'll pay more taxes for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4725	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mihael Zmajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4726	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister Evo is indeed indisputable through this debate and I believe that we all agree that the purpose of each reform should be, if it really is, the discharge of citizens, the incentives of the economy should actually point the story towards economic development. But if, in order for certain legal changes to be called reforms, I think these proposals must meet certain criteria. Therefore, it should be clear what is the purpose or objective of these legislative proposals that should be visible. Here, if we just focus on amending the Law on Motor Vehicles on this example, we will see that the objectives of absolutely no goals, the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia are not realized, but that this change is aimed only at patching up the budget gap. And then it's not weird and it's not unusual when they show up in public grades of this so-called. reform that this is a superhic reform that actually gives rich people even more resources. So, in a particular case, a luxury set of vehicles becomes significantly cheaper and those cheap affordable vehicles that most citizens can afford become more expensive. So here we've missed our full target and target. This is why I want to prove, in fact, that if it continues or will insist on such changes to the law that Croatia will become a dump for European used cars. So we encourage these proposals to additional imports of used cars, regardless of what Croatia has done last year, 13%, unlike the EU, which stagnates, but in Croatia 13% is increasing the number of people killed in transport. So our priority is to increase the safety of road traffic and we certainly will not achieve this if we increase the age of our fleet in Croatia, which is now over 13 years old. And that's exactly what these proposals for amending the law encourage. In a few years, since we joined the EU, the structure of new and used vehicles has therefore changed on the market. I think the proposer and all of us here should be the goal of encouraging the market for new vehicles because they have multiplier effects. So there's the industry that's employed, services, etc. And we put one such branch in a much neater and more legal sphere, and we also have multiplier effects. You can't see it in these proposals. When we talk about the next strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia, and it is the gentlemen dear thing in which we are extremely late. All of 2016, there was absolutely nothing about the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the Republic of Croatia, especially from transport. Incentives for low-emission eco-acceptable vehicles have been lifted and these proposals will become more expensive than the previous ones. So what's the message? In what way are we going to achieve these goals? Who's going to pay for the penalty, who are we going to spend this on? Then we'll talk in a few years that we have as a society the cost of who we're going to spend it on? And that will be in a few years, it's not now. So that's what we have to think about. So Croatia has to start drastically changing its fleet. It's not because it's a luxury but because it's between everything else and the need, but also because of increasing road safety and reducing traffic emissions. And the third important thing strategically important is tourism. You know that in Croatia every third tourist as the main reason for coming to Croatia speaks as a pure and intact nature. These proposals do not achieve these objectives, and therefore I think there should be some changes in order to change the structure of the rolling stock in Croatia. Otherwise, I repeat, it remains a message that the government is giving this reform to the rich even more, which will be driven in even more expensive, even cheaper, luxury cars and the poor will get nothing and the new cars will remain just a dream. And so it remains importing 15 and more years of old cars that we actually encourage these proposals. And in this way, over the year, we will actually turn Croatia into a waste dump for European cars. And I don't think any of us want to, and that's why I appeal that these proposals are actually changed in order to actually increase the market for new cars, sell new cars on the one hand, but that in Croatia cars that have no CO2 emissions are driven is not just an environmental issue, so that's a question of economic calculations. So, if it's less emissions, it's less consumption, and we, or the government, are actually ordering these proposals to Croatian citizens, you'll get cheaper vehicles, but you'll pay expensive energy and you'll pollute the air we breathe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4727	Thank you very much. The next debate is that of the respected representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4728	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable ministers, respected colleagues, MPs and MPs. Here I would certainly welcome, for my part, the intensities of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administrations who really want and with this proposal to increase, in fact making it easier for business entities, so that they are made easier to operate, that the criteria are equal to the rates they are taxing, to reduce the number of taxes that must actually be faced by a particular business entity, and that is actually something that will certainly reflect both competitiveness and will reflect on the simplicity of business and hopefully other measures that will be implemented, which we have discussed in the previous government, that we will come to the conclusion that business entities can finally say that in Croatia they have an climate in which they can start their investments, where they are... with their investments on a path that makes them easier than other countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I have to say is that I come from Vukovar-Srijem County. Here's the last days I've been home and I've been having conversations with both business entities and local self-government units. They do well to complain about that short time in which they had the right to make their comments. So here's one of the comments, that went through the community association to plead out about this whole series of laws. The hearing was held on 28 October, their deadline was until 3 November. Practically, in three days, many of them have not been able to react, nor have they been able to study really extensive matter. And now they appear every day with some suggestions that maybe their condition could improve. I said that through this debate and the second reading, there will be certain quality proposals that both the ministry and your team of ministers will surely go to respect and try to implement. What I have to express is actually one fear that we share all together there. This applies to the elimination and reduction of income tax relief, as well as income tax for those engaged in independent activity. It's a crafty, family-owned agricultural holding. Because, specifically, if we're looking at it, it means relief for assisted areas of another group that have been at 50% level so far, they're being abolished. Therefore, the current profit tax that was 10% will now grow to 18% or 13% if it is smaller, and in the assisted area of the group one that has been released so far, they will only have 50% ease. So it's not that there's any relief left, it's that relative to this condition they had is actually making business difficult. It's a little bit of a concern, of course. On the one hand, we have in the city of Vukovar the Law on the City of Vukovar that gives them relief from the position of contributions. On the other hand, they were relieved of tax burdens, and then in some sense it gave them a more favourable position to maybe have their business in Vukovar right now, not somewhere else. This will make it difficult for the city of Vukovar and other cities, municipalities, cities located in the area of special needs of Group 1, as well as in these other areas. What is important is to point out that here you have in mind when you discuss possible changes in these areas live millions of people. There are 264 cities and municipalities. It's almost half local self-government, and I think it's definitely something that requires particular attention and that you can see how you can and maybe if you can't get through this, but to point out the direction in which it will make it easier to make it possible primarily for the economic operators that operate there. There was a lot of debate here where local self-government revenues were discussed, which are also important. But if we look at the economic subject's side, they want to function, they actually want some of their own and independence from everything that's going on around local self-government and public bodies, but they want to know their future perspective, calculations. So if we're talking about assisted first group areas that are of particular importance, that's 47 units of local self-government, about 150,000 residents, where the natural economic operator lives. And I think that's the attention that should be directed, and given that you have a government session tomorrow in Vukovar, there could probably be a question there that will help the city of Vukovar. I also welcome the intention of having the entire set of decisions tied to the city of Vukovar tomorrow. I welcome the support the government will provide for the restoration of the Vukovar water tower. But, of course, entrepreneurs in Vukovar will expect an answer as to how in the future he will actually find benefits from staying in Vukovar, to develop their business, to be their base there. However, I would also like to commend the intention of reducing VAT from 25% to 13% for the repromaterial in agriculture, for seedlings, seeds, fertilisers, pesticides, livestock food, and it will certainly help a large number of small agricultural producers. But I would point out once again that there are also the big ones that might be in the current business, in their liquidity, the help of those in the VAT system, but in their final account, it's definitely not a relief. In particular, this applies to our farmers, where we are aware that the problem of milk production in Croatia is one of the difficulties. They all deliver milk in amounts measured in millions, but still have significant difficulties. So they should make sure that they take some measures that can help them help small ones, but unfortunately large ones do not. Also, I'm going to look back a little bit on the subject of tax on catering services. Here I was warned by some of the hosts who operate there, who operate in the field of tourism, rural tourism where they signed years-long contracts with tour operators where they simply cannot change those contracts. They have to calculate the reduction, actually that's what those 12% had now have to form the price of their services based on 25% of VAT and that's going to make them one big difficulty. Therefore, it should pay particular attention to the fact that the team that is bound by contracts where there has been no timely announcement that changes will occur, that they can adapt, that they can thunder over a time in which they will surely have difficulties. What is very important about local self-government, it is within the framework of local taxes, property tax and what I have and in the context of the debate on the parliamentary Committee on Local Self-Government mentioned, and in terms of age, means the time of construction of real estate, as well as the conditions of real estate where in war-related areas we have numerous buildings built in reconstruction where not by the owner's intention, of course, but as a result of intentional destruction by the aggressors, all these buildings destroyed, the Croatian Government has invested large funds to restore the facilities. However, neither that value nor the owner’s intention can be taken as a criterion to determine tax as if it were a new object that had some new value. There should still be an exception for that group. And we can also say that this is also with ruins that are not restored in these areas that local self-government will have great difficulty defining, because these are buildings that have a building permit, which exist there. They're not habitable, they're not restored, and we have a number of families that didn't get the strength or wanted to declare missing people dead, and these objects stand. They can't be solved, and I believe you'll have exactly that direction and the conversations that you should find a solution. One of the issues that also within the Assembly Committee came out which I consider important, business areas in local self-government to attract investors was to be granted a exemption from the communal fee on deadlines that are 10 years old – I know such examples with me – now I'm actually saying when the municipal fee disappears then a practical tax would have to be applied. That relief is disappearing, and it was one of the conditions for them to begin to act. Therefore, I would only ask that, if we were to help economic operators, to help assisted areas, because this would otherwise be to their harm, and that certainly was not the intensity of the bill or of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4729	Thank you. We have a few replicas on your display. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4730	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Panenić, you have pointed out a few positive things about this reform. Of course we agree through replicas and everything. However, I am the head of the local self-government unit, and before you were the minister, you were the head of a local self-government unit, plagued by the lack of compensation measures for nearly a billion and 800 million kuna, which will lose the units of local self-government by this tax reform. So, I simply have to stress this today and yesterday, and tomorrow as head of the unit of local self-government and all the leaders of the local self-government units in Croatia, so we now simply have that unit of local self-government – municipalities and cities and counties in the Republic of Croatia in 2017 will lose a billion 700-800 to 2 billion kuna, that we will vote in the second reading and 1.1. apply these measures. However, the compensation code I expected as the 16th law of this tax package simply does not exist. I mean, you're part of the parliamentary majority and I simply appeal to you as former leader and colleague of the local self-government unit that you can't leave the local self-government units in such a state that we all lose 2 billion kuna together. In 2010 and 2015, the government of Jadranka Kosor and the Government of Zoran Milanovic changed the rates of income tax, never compensated. So, I said on purpose and the government of Zoran Milanovic. However, we are now talking about the loss of units of local self-government almost 2 billion kuna. Will there also be a compensation law that will bring that back to local self-government units? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4731	The honourable representative Panenic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4732	Thanks, buddy. I think we share that experience, the knowledge we had within the local self-government, which is why we can be rational and objective. And certainly, I agree that this last compensation she was at the expense of local self-government because it was good until we got a tax refund for 2014 then we got it in full. However, as there has been a reduction this year, you have already felt with you and others that this is a much smaller amount and it is justified that concern, and it is good that we have this concern and that we are passing on to the draft law to the Ministry of Finance that it should be known that the already damaged municipality was or the city and that this time it would be another additional blow. So I expect the ministry will also propose a compensation package that will compensate for local self-government. But again what was within my exposure is that, here we are, begging not to get off the subject. One is local self-government and the income of local self-government and all of this makes one infrastructure where we live. But what we're all fighting for and what was the subject of my exposure are actually entrepreneurs who want to function with us, whose compensation package you've listed is not directed towards them. So, there must be a new compensation package that will allow exactly entrepreneurs to lose the current motives that they have working in the assisted area to make up for them in the future must be a clear message. We can have it through some measures as we stress it now, but those in the VAT system, for example. on the reduction of VAT to electricity, it does not mean much to one entrepreneur who is in the VAT system, and I am still fighting from this position as a parliamentary representative to correct this injustice that could be done, which is that the compensation for renewable energy sources is reduced, to compensate through the measures that I and the finance minister have laid down, and I hope by the end of the year that we will all support it so that we can correct what has come from your government, has been passed on to my government, and also to this next to be unanimous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4733	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative of the Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4734	Thank you, Chairman. Well, dear colleague Panenic, I am pleased that you have noticed as to the support of farmers in the VAT system that these changes, or this reduction, will not contribute much. However, I am also in favour of a reduction, but you were talking about big and small farmers. I believe that farmers who are in the VAT system are also small farmers because they came in because at some point they thought it would be better for them. On this point, I will not now refer to those proposals that have been under discussion but perhaps to another measure that is related to income tax. This is primarily about rural areas, those small farmers who often rent their surfaces when they can no longer work, it is about nursing households in the rural part, where the income tax proposal now proposes that final income be considered as income that has a source of income from property. So if now a farmer or a nursing home rents land for a thousand or thousands of kuna for a lighter calculation, she will have to pay 120 kuna now for a new one, there is no right to deduct. We know that pensions, rarely exceeding a thousand kunas, are agricultural, most of them range from 400 to 800 kuna, and I think it would be good to consider that personal deduction of 3,000 800 to remain for them, or that this income or receipt of property is not final but as an annual income to be taken. I'd like to ask your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4735	Thank you. The honourable representative Panenic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4736	Thank you for this consideration. Of course, here I have cited it in my presentation, and you have confirmed that these great farmers, when we say big ones, are just something bigger that they are not too big, are not conglomerates that here in the assembly we are struggling not to usurp agriculture entirely because it is also a source of future employment and that small farms that are growing, which the intensity of all strategies was that they are growing, they develop when they have a certain quality investment at that point they entered the VAT system to take advantage of opportunities. Now we come if they're under 300 thousand kuna they'll probably say from 1.1 I won't be in the VAT system anymore so they might have solved it. But what about those who are over it? As far as I know our agricultural producers, they're gonna be tough and they're gonna make a big deal out of it. And the problem is that they're going to start another OPG, that they're going to start another agricultural economy that they're going to keep under that 300 grand through it, they're going to get re-promaterials, and then they're going to be brought into one area of offense. This may be one bad tradition that we had here and from the rural development program where a new agricultural economy was sought, a young farmer and he founded a new OPG so they have meaning, the family had one OPG, so another one was founded at the same address, so maybe we'll start another radio tax now. In fact, we do not provide one haven for our agricultural producers, it is not your government, and I hope that this practice will not take place now where they will say with one economic operator, with one agricultural economy, we are going to have the right to support our capital investments, we have the opportunity to meet in tax relief and I think that's the direction we should go. And then we could discuss other reliefs for all residents in our areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4737	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Sabine Voter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4738	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation, you pointed out that in the field you were faced with dissatisfaction with a certain part of the craftsman and also with fellow citizens who claimed that the area where they could make proposals, criticisms and even consider the proposed legal changes was too short. I agree with you, although I would like to apostrophe the fact that it is too easy to go over the fact that this package of tax laws is a classic example of a breach of the public hearing institute because even in some ways, the constitutional right of citizens to be informed has been restricted to avoid respecting the Law on the effects of the regulations and the Law on the right to access to information from the 15 proposed laws. And I think the MPs in this House, and the ministers who, among other things, said in their oath that they would abide by the Republic of Croatia's Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia should not allow it. I think that in the history of Croatian legislation, and since these positive democratic institutes exist, it has not happened that such important laws that are being touched by almost every citizen in the Republic of Croatia are being passed in this ad hoc way, while completely bypassing I say not only the laws that define the procedure that laws are being passed but also make it impossible for citizens in key constitutional rights, and this is the right to be informed, so if you want them to react and to say their views on certain proposals that they are completely entitled to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4739	The respected representative Tomislav Panenic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4740	In any case, the finance minister he bears the greatest responsibility for this set of laws because he himself said that he has worked with his team for the past six months, that he has gathered experts around him who have analysed the effects of this law. And maybe what's hard in a public debate, of course everyone looks at their segment and maybe sees difficulties or what we see, some see the advantage of the law. It's a little hard for then to articulate through one set of laws. Of course we as advocates, each of us received not only his votes, but even preferential votes. We've only been chosen in areas where we can identify ourselves, each of us comes from a certain profession, so one part of that law is closer to him, these sets of laws. All of us should continue to represent interests and those who are not through a public debate could prove that we too are passing through this debate. And I'm listening here, and here are your colleagues, and here and from the ruling option that we've all been on the ground to accept some suggestions, criticisms, to bring them out here and that's why they're here both representatives and ministries to listen to it. And it's good to have a second reading, until the second reading, to try to understand that in their models, they're calculating possible needs for changes to go out in the second reading with a better proposal, and entrepreneurs certainly can't justify it, the difficulties they have in doing business right now, and that we say it takes a lot of time, we have to discuss it for months, they want us to be efficient. And I hope that in this time too, until the second reading is done, we will be effective and convey what may not have been brought in in this time so that we ourselves can be the best advocates of our constituents.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4741	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be her distinguished MPs, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. We have a set of 15 laws ahead of us. In this discussion we discussed a lot of topics during these two days, but in that set of laws there is one law that I don't think was mentioned by anyone and that's the Law on Administrative Taxes. Namely, that law is one of the longest-ever laws of '96. the years that changed and complemented each year. And that law is an example of something I hope will be corrected between these two readings, which is the fact that this set of laws was not in the public debate, this set of laws was in the expert debate, so experts discussed it because it was not in the public debate. And it will also likely be avoided that these laws have not passed that common procedure, opinions or objections from other ministries, and that this will be corrected between these two readings because look at the little provision of Articles 8 and 9. The law on administrative fees that speaks of general releases, special releases, there are still bodies that have a problem especially public institutions owned by the state, so I guess between the two readings it will avoid. I also assume in principle that between the two readings will be avoided and certain ambiguities in the provisions or norms. The norms must be clear and unequivocal and shall be mutually consistent. What when you read multiple laws then you see that each resort uses a certain term in its own way. It was a great example, I'm only going a second away from the topic, when it was about marinas, then one of them used the theme of having three anchor marinas, so three stars, so what are marinas? Likewise, when we use terms, especially when we talk about the Law on Local Taxes, we use the term of undeveloped construction land in the way that it is defined in the Law on Spatial Planning, as well as the term of purpose, living purpose, business purpose, to use terms that are relevant to the ministry that is in charge and thus be in this law of simple law that laws are readable to one another. Now we're coming up with some other topics. One of the topics is this summer, i.e. last summer, I apologize in 2015, this Parliament adopted a Law on Real Estate Assessment before the summer break. Of all 28 EU member states, Croatia was the only one who did not have that law without saying that some other countries in the environment had the same experience as believe it or not, Serbia had such a law, but Croatia had no such law, and there were major problems. In a set of laws, the law was forgotten, so when we talk about the Realty Tax Act, it remains an art. And it remains an artisan when a parallel method cannot determine what condition it is, then the witch chooses the head of the tax administration. I'm asking nicely, my colleagues have been doing this job for a really long time to sit down and consult for the simple reason we'll have rules that will be mutual, that won't be mutually consistent, or that will be non-compliant. Likewise, in the Real Estate Tax Act, we have something called that the first real estate will now be paid tax. We have indeed defined ourselves and we have said that demographics are a problem in Croatia, even more than we have the Ministry of Demography, even more so in this sense we have said that we will have a set of measures but a set of measures for the restoration of demographics doesn't just begin with the act of the birth of one child but begins with a whole set of measures. Personally, I personally like the Danish model and I think it's quite effective but everyone can define themselves for the model they want. Equally, in the opening statement, the minister said that for the model that has been defined, Croatia is a model of renting apartments, that we will build apartments from certain means, that we will have them for rent, I would understand why it is so, I do not understand this. And it's absolutely a guilty message, and of course I said that when I discussed it on behalf of the club, and I can say here that we don't support it. And now we come to what caused and a lot of discussion especially because among us sit the heads of municipalities and cities when it comes to real estate tax. There somewhere in 2003 I had the opportunity to see one study which was commissioned, it was financed from the outside how to do or the tax system and with fiscalisation in Croatia somehow effective and better and then, of course, the experts assessed and concluded what we all know there were no savings in shares, gold, jewels, but they were saving in real estate and they recognized at the same time that the properties were the ones that could serve in the tax system. They also set examples for us of some other countries. The fact is that the communal fee and, beyond that, the municipal contribution were equally introduced into legislation there in the early '95s and by the law that was introduced, it was a long-standing law that was still in force. And the same is the fact that other countries don't have it, I speak Western European countries because they have another tradition. But when they have a value tax on real estate, they have an amount to which no tax is paid and they also have a property tax. In order for it not to happen if someone who decided to invest in real estate for their age will pay taxes and someone who said look, I won't be harassing myself with that, I'll put the money on the bank so that they won't be there to pay taxes. I understand colleagues from the Ministry of Finance who were the simplest possible communal fee to translate into tax as a transitional provision. However, you do not have to listen to me listen to colleagues who are mayors and mayors and who know what problem we are talking about. Of the 556 municipalities and cities we have of 0, so in the budget communal fee is part of the budget of 0, so we have municipalities and cities that don't have a system of municipal compensation at all, we have municipalities and cities that don't charge for it at all. When you make and sell municipalities in Croatia in the budget, 8% is a communal fee. In cities, it's something more, in cities it's 12%. So as I was saying, from 0 to 58%. We once said by amending the law that went in 2014 that municipal compensation could be used for everyone, de facto for anything but wages. Why? Because we saw that in the audits of the financial operations of municipalities and cities all had a slightly larger communal fee to remark that they were not deliberately using it. To avoid it, we've changed the law. The proposal that went was that people who actually deal with real estate taxes, too, what does that mean? In 2017, we use it to equalise the municipal fee because different real estate taxes are also the point by which the local self-government unit decides on the basis of this bill. Equally so I don't start talking too fast and say everything I want to say because I'm looking at an hour, let's see the experiences of neighbouring countries. Slovenia introduced real estate tax for 10 years, after 10 years it had 2 million complaints. Why did she have complaints? If you have in solving any incorrect information, the reason is for the complaint. I assume that the second-degree body is relative to first-degree body solutions that will be municipalities and cities sufficiently capacitated to, say, solve 5 million complaints in one hour. So this will be for the simple reason that this law is in the desire to introduce a property tax and we all know what that is like, and we have a national reform programme. In the national reform programme, we said real estate was potential, and that's what we said there when we went to the EU and got some homework. But believe the countries that are, in particular, Central Europe and Northern Europe, they don't generally understand what we're talking about because it's the most normal thing for them to sell their real estate, to live in a rented place and to invest and do something else for those money they got for the real estate. It wasn't like that with us. In Croatia, it was saved in real estate. 2017 use for good analysis, for recording, for equating to see where the releases are, where they are not releases. So I'm aware that sooner or later it will be that way. But once again, let's keep in mind, in 2003, the procedure started, it tried, let's not do anything over the knee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4743	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4744	Dear fellow Members, that you said that the norm must be precise and that I am also at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership warned the Proposer that indeed the norm should be precise, i.e. the norm should be written for citizens who are taxpayers that they understand their obligations. We here in the Income Tax Act, we don't say in any way that for pensioners, the pension tax rate is above the non-taxable part of 12%, but we say that the advance tax on pensioners is calculated at a rate of 24% reduced by 50%, so descriptive because we have to say so that people don't understand us. Then we have the notion of annual income, final income, income tax advances. So let's give it a little bit of a rest, so we don't do it for spacers doing it for our citizens who should all understand their obligations. And secondly, as for the speed of lawmaking, we are still world champions and we have nothing to be proud of. I'm not saying it's a characteristic of this government, but of all the previous governments, we're doing everything quickly, so it's breaking our heads. Why did the Germans never bring tax reform in this year for next year but for the next one over to make sure that all systems are tested, that they're sure what they're doing to get citizens to know what the tax system is going to be and what a tax burden is going to be. And why on earth aren't social partners involved? Why do those who negotiate wages, and tomorrow's pensions depend on it, do not participate in it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4745	Thank you. They will respond to the distinguished representative Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4746	Thank you very much. A fellow Hrelj, this fact of mine, i.e. that sentence, excited you, confused you about another fact. However, what is my problem is to define the construction land that is not built, or to define when it is thought to be built or issued by a building permit. I didn't understand that. I have to admit, I've been doing my entire working life one way or another with spatial planning, and I didn't understand this. And that's certainly going to cause a lot of trouble. It was a possibility before when it came to the communal fee to pay for the construction land not built. What's the meaning of the communal fee? The point is the municipal fee that where the land is communally equipped and has access to the road, the infrastructure, means water supply, the disposal system that is suitable for that area and the supply of electricity to pay the municipal compensation there for reasons that this could be maintained. So we need to know right away that the properties that exist in the space, and they don't have it, and we know that they don't have everything, didn't have a obligation to pay the municipal fee, and that's going to be new properties that will have a duty to pay taxes. Equally, construction land of only 30% of municipalities and cities introduced a municipal fee related to it. And the desire shown by this law to pay land tax according to the building opportunities, that building it with a spatial plan on that land was once an attempt and that attempt at the Constitutional Court has been declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional. Well, that's it. I repeat again. You don't have to listen to me, but listen a little to the Association of Municipalities and Cities. They're people who sit and know what we're talking about. Don't make a mess with the mayors of municipalities and cities in the election year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4747	Thank you. Next in line is the debate of the distinguished representative Grosdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4748	Here's our esteemed colleague and colleague, we've all recycled all of this a number of times. So, the fact is that in our country we still have a high tax burden in relation to countries in the environment, that there is high tax instability, and that is especially in the period of 2012, 2015 there have been 44 changes and there are also inconsistencies in some and unclear legal provisions which then lead to certain problems in application. Through these objectives of tax reform, therefore, it was intended to reduce the overall tax burden, promote the competitiveness of the economy, create a fairer tax system, a more stable system and that means as little change as possible. Also, the spread of the tax base in order to curb the grey economy, and in addition to reducing these numerous patterns, which were actually a problem in the efficiency of implementation and control of the system. In this way, the aim is also to increase the legal certainty of taxpayers. I will only touch myself briefly because, I say, we have all recycled these things several times, but here we should point out in the first row of profit tax that the rate is reduced by 20%, so differentiated 18 and 12%, respectively, for taxpayers and entrepreneurs up to 3 million kunas 12%, and those over that 18, which, compared to countries in the environment, makes a significant contribution to the safety of entrepreneurs and ultimately competitiveness. What is more important is that income tax is possible to pay income tax according to cash flow. This has not been an option so far, which is very important in view of the difficulties in the collection of claims, and then, as there was the exception to the payment of VAT, so according to the charged and invoiced realisation, this is a very good news that will help a particular group to plan better and endure all the burdens. Full flexibility is also available when choosing how to tax the economic activity of the non-profit sector. Since the non-profit sector has also achieved part of its business through economic activity, and then they have not been able to invest or reinvest that profit because they are non-profitable so that this enables them in one way to make it as simple as possible in this VAT system. In income tax as the highest income of the local self-government unit, we see that there has been a change in rates to 24 and 36% compared to previous 12, 25, 40. Although I agree with what Mr. Hrelja said that 50% again is 12% as one of the rates, but that had its reasons why it was written like that. What should be particularly pointed out is that the personal deduction here is now under this proposal 3 thousand 800 kuna, so if you were looking at the calculations for the first and second children, we see that families now have a child of 5 thousand 520 kunas of personal deduction, and so far, according to the law so far, it was only 3 thousand 840 net wages. For families with two children, it is now 8 thousand kunas of untaxable net wages, not like so far 5 thousand 680. This is what I am saying in support of the fact that there has been a comment and a finding that the medium layer is not being taken care of, and this proves that this particular layer has been taken into account because it is an average family that has, in this way, a larger consumer basket with average incomes. It should also be noted that in that statistical statement that around cca 920 thousand were exempt from tax, these measures increase the total number by another 560 thousand persons of a total of 2.75 million of all taxpayers. That's almost a million and a half taxpayers in total, which is an extremely large figure when we look at the ratio of total taxpayers. Contributions are mentioned here that the base is expanding, and the amount of contributions is cut in half for both pension and health insurance, thus trying to level the burden of all taxpayers. In local taxes, we see that the company was abolished, which, in part, caused a riot in the units, but on the other hand, this is also a good measure. I agree here with Mrs. Mrak Taritaš, who mentions real estate tax, there really should be caution and it's really good that we have this year to prepare, given that when calculating the municipal fee was really the value of the point area coefficient and the use coefficient, and in addition now the tax on real estate is being introduced the age coefficient and the coefficient of the state which is something new. But that there will be great oscillations and the very value of points in individual units it is a fact and it really matters what degree of settlement of books and legalization is. In addition, state facilities, and primarily military facilities have been released now in these latest changes in the payment of municipal compensation, are therefore now objects that will be subject to the payment of real estate taxes for the state. So we should also keep in mind that this is something that is the income of units of local self-government, and some units have remained significant without income from municipal compensation for these military facilities. The general tax law tends to strengthen the Institute of Warning more clearly, which is good, and with a systematic solution to the problem of antiquity which will then clear the books of the units of the local one, among other things and the state budget of the claims themselves, which is actually impossible to collect for several reasons. Here I am saying that since this institute is about local taxes and the application of real estate taxes, I think it's good that we have this adjustment period and that it's good to press out what and how it's going to reflect on revenues, given that so far the municipal fee was indeed a communal standard that met the units of local self-government amongst other things and for the needs of fire and for other municipal needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4749	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for the debate. We've got a few replicas. First of all, a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4750	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You pointed out at the outset that Croatia is a highly tax-laden country, i.e. that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are highly tax-laden. However, what I would like to say is that I agree with your findings, but I am so much more illogically intensities of the legislator to tax, for example, on catering services that are significantly higher than those in the environment in which I think of Mediterranean countries where this tax moves between 9 and 10% further to 25%. You and I are coming from a city where a tourist and I will dare say and the catering activity plays a significant role not only in the development of tourism, but also in the development of economic activity, and I don't think it's an absolutely smart move to fully deny this package of tax laws the tourism development strategy until 2020, which provides for exactly the opposite, which is to reduce tax discharge for hotel, or tourist and catering services and certainly not increase but also such high tax burdens compared to other European countries that we can say that we are competitive and that we should fight them for as much competitiveness as possible, and in this way we will certainly not achieve this and on the other hand we will do so that the caterers are really cutting in debt, that we have to reduce wages, that we may have to close the trades. Finally, citizens will pay more expensive and catering services because this will certainly result in price increases.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4751	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice on the line. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Grozdana Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4752	Well, with this 25% at the first moment, that's how it works, but when we look at the integrity of all the laws that are really proposed through the input parameters, through the reduction of VAT, through the inputs, and also by reducing income tax and profit, it should not ultimately be reflected in the prices that are current. And it should also not significantly increase those prices, which means that the hosts themselves would perhaps in this case, given that VAT ultimately pays the guest and in this way may be considered to be less guests I don't think it should be a reason to present in this way given that, I say the inputs in this case are those that should ultimately define and maintain existing prices and that there should be no significant disturbances.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4753	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Peric, you spoke about the communal fee in view of the work you were doing, absolutely you and I both know what we're talking about. And we also know that there are municipalities and cities that do it in different ways. The prerequisite for a good collection of municipal compensation is correct that we have good records. The prerequisite for that record is that we have a fixed cadastre and a garter and that the real state of the field fits that condition. 6% of Croatia is catastrianly arranged, we have... and it's a common information system of harmonising catastra and grantovnica and it fits where two accurate data gives us absolutely accurate information and where two incorrect data gives us incorrect information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From the territory of Zadar County and where you come from there is one municipality that has a great solution. And the municipality that did it very quickly was its interest and that is the municipality that when we talk about illegal construction then it is an indicator which means illegal construction in Croatia. And there came a young and so very enthusiastic chief, what did he do? He took a nice walk around, had a service, visited all the buildings, recorded all the buildings in real condition whether they were legal and there was very little of it legal, the main thing of it was illegal and started to charge a communal fee according to the real state on the ground and increased the communal fee from one amount, by 90% he mostly increased all that he had and this is an indicator of a municipality where the municipal fee was quite good in the budget of that municipality. So, by this law, and look at the provision of Article 58. We're transferring the obligation to local self-government units, those who were able to do it have made, those who weren't going to be gone either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4755	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark-Taritash, on the replica. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Grozdana Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4756	It's true, Mrs. Taritash, so it's a community that normally had an illegal 90 and some percent I think were illegal objects. And that's why I mention actually the legalization procedure that is in this case, the sooner it ends for all other cities and municipalities then we'll have as clean and better a base as possible to apply. But nevertheless, you really need to be careful here because there is very much, we will have a lot of likely complaints given that it is a tax and then the procedure and application of the OPZ and everything else, we know how it goes. So it's not very simple, but in any case, such municipalities that had illegal facilities also charged large amounts of municipal contributions and communal fees and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4757	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Peric, I listened closely to you in your presentation and with only one sentence you touched the company tax and welcomed and said that this is a good move proposed by this law. Now, I'm gonna ask you an additional question why it's good and I'm gonna find out it's not good. Namely, it was one of the taxes that was the 100% income of local self-government units. And I agree with the finding that it should go hand in hand to entrepreneurs, businessmen and facilitate their business and reduce their tax duties. However, we are centralizing things again because it was the possibility of a local self-government unit to determine on its own how much an entrepreneur will determine the amount and the law said that the maximum amount is 2000 kuna per year. Now you count on the big ones or the rich ones. So to me as a representative of the local self-government unit, the goal is to encourage the weaker ones, I'm not going to put that tax on them, but the big one, and let's say the la bank that's going to be mentioned a lot, I have 5 banks in town, none of them have a seat, but there are businesses. What's it like to give a bank 2 grand a year for a local budget where I can't fix a playground in our city. Where they're big, so with this direct incentive of the big ones, I'll mention here openly, let's take the Konzum, or these kind of companies that make big profits and the employees in their companies have the minimum wage. And one more thing I want to point out, that right through this incentivization of the richest and poorest that we as a local self-government can encourage us to take this right and I'm going to say decentralisation this possibility and you're taking the opportunity to further finance ourselves. I'll take one example where we worked, just let me just do this, example Metkovic has 60 thousand kuna per year charge from it, City of Labin million kuna, City of Crikvenica 3 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4759	I thank my esteemed colleague Tully Demetlika for the replica. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Grozdana Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4760	So if we said me as a city, the bigger town I came from, I had over five million kuna taxes on the company. So by that you should say no, not end it. However, if we are in favour of the simplicity of the tax system, if we are in favour of entrepreneurship that we can say to this large does not mean as much as 1600 as we have, i.e. 2000 maximum or craftsmen 900 kuna. That's really not something a year. But the fact is, all these companies contribute directly and indirectly. So indirectly, they hire people. We kill taxes from income tax. So let's simplify, let's make that tax go away as such, and in other ways, that tax, or the total amount of income, will certainly rise and not necessarily with that tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4761	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for his reply to the replica. With this, we have exhausted the replicas of this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Tomislav Žagar has applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4762	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished Minister Marić with his associates, colleagues and colleagues here first to say this in general about tax reform. Of course, when on the one hand we have needs that are manifested either in the acquired rights of many citizens, whether it is education, health care, public sector wages, pensions, and on the other hand we have an economy and those who are full of budget then it is necessary to make the right measure in order for both of us to be satisfied or satisfied in some way. Of course, it does not mean that a higher tax rate also means higher tax revenues. So sometimes a lower tax rate if entrepreneurship is released, if the economy is released, it can mean a much greater charge of the state budget. And in this respect, I personally welcome all those measures that the minister has proposed and which are going towards the dispensation of the economy and I hope that they will justify or bring results. One man once said, I don't know his name, says more than paying taxes pains when you don't have to pay taxes. So what's the problem and what this tax reform can't solve is a large number of citizens who actually won't touch this tax reform. The only way to help them is to raise their minimum wage to raise their standard, but that's another story. I'll say a few things I don't agree with in this tax reform, and here I'll start by saying one that, in my opinion, is once again from the corner of Slavonia good, it's about this reduction of excise duty on the production of fruit brandy in small distilleries. It's 2500 liters. I thought I didn't read it right first, but that's a pretty high amount. So that makes sense since Slavonic plum is protected and I think it is an export product that can compete on the European market. Help the winemakers, and that should be welcomed. I think we in Croatia have problems branding our products. We have good products so the Austrians sell their ice harvest on many markets, we don't know how to present it well. The Austrians don't even have ice picks when they have air conditioning. So any such measure is to welcome what is not good in this reform, again I will stress not only because we speak from the opposition, so says the Croatian Chamber of crafts, so hospitality from 13% to 25%. I don't think it's a good measure, not to be any longer. Excises on pollution-related motor vehicles will also hit these cheapest vehicles that are not very technologically the best. I think it will have a significant impact on the purchasing power of those who have the least money. I don't know, I don't understand why, but okay, the doctors say that and the cigarette, it has a negative impact on people's health, but I don't understand why they're taxing e cigarettes. Apparently the tobacco industry makes them, but good. The biggest grudge, many colleagues here have spoken, means the elimination of the tax relief for the purchase of the first property. We have to stress that this is about 50 squares plus then every household member of 10 squares. I don't think that should have been touched. No matter what, it's wrong. As far as local self-government and this property tax will be concerned, of course, there will be a lot of problems in local self-government especially with property-legal relations in those private-owned facilities that were not without a desert debate, whether or not we know who the owner was. These houses are usually threatened by even passersby, they can collapse, you can't touch them, even a construction inspection won't allow it. It was with me when I was chief, people came in the evening, and we're going to crash to make it safer. It can't be touched, it's private property and you can't be there, that tax will be hard to charge. I don't know how it's going to work, if it's going to be the communal director with it again, I don't know who's going to measure it, so far they've measured it with a meter outside of the facility, so they've determined the square. I'm saying that the units of local self-government from that process certainly don't need to be excluded, they need to be more involved by representative bodies that they finally make a decision about the amount of taxes themselves. And finally, the reinvested profit, so it's not a good message if we suggest to entrepreneurs better buy a new vehicle, expensive BMW, but to invest in new production or new plants because even though a small number of users need to use the ministry, all the competent departments of resolution should also use it if they need advertising. I see that I think of the Ministry of Regional Development now a lot of these commercials on television where citizens are referred to structural funds. I think that citizens need as much education as possible because it's not burned, so the Ministry of Finance can also carry out for entrepreneurs, especially the OPGs, here to improve their production. Here, these are short things. There's plenty of time left, but we've replicated a lot, so that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4763	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4764	Thank you very much. You mentioned the first real estate or removal of the first real estate facility. This has already been discussed in this House, or this assembly, through these two days of debate, and there really should be a speech because it should be seen at the level of the message. When we spoke on committees then there are colleagues who said so to us our community or city does not mean much, we sell ourselves relatively little annually. However, in large cities, especially when it comes to the City of Zagreb, it means a lot, but it means a lot in terms of the message. All we need to do is look at the experiences of some other countries that they have done in terms of demographic recovery. So, in the announcement that when there was a presentation of the law, the Honorable Minister spoke about that there were other ways to relate to young families, I rather point out the experience that we had when we went with 20 and some apartments for rent in Osijek. And when you look at Osijek and think there's no way you can rent one single apartment. We had one apartment of eight requests. This in other words means there really are some other methods and methodologies. But there's a state behind it. So I am very glad that you have considered this in your discussion. I'm sure it'll be a consequence. My real estate colleagues are talking about how great it is now because everyone who tries to buy is trying to buy before the law goes into effect. Because of course, no matter how much it may seem, that tax gives these young families the opportunity to put their first real estate and equipment there. But at the level of the message, it must be the wrong message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4765	I thank Mrs. Anki Mrak-Taritash on the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4766	Dear colleague Taritash, from a young family's point of view, of course. Here, I appeal to the minister again to consider that measure. However, on the other hand, I must also take into account the real estate traffic that needs to be stimulated, so that even in addition to this measure, young families for the purchase of first estate should be free from tax payments, and the state should also influence banks to release loans with as little interest as possible so that young people can easily access that property, thus encouraging trade itself or traffic of real estate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4767	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for his reply to the replica. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. The following came to the debate, a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4768	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, as a member of the home tourism committee where we had a thematic debate a few days ago on part of the tax package, I have to say that it's a bit sad situation where we've been bombarded by various professional associations for days, actually calling for their voice to be heard. So for days the members and members of the Committee on Tourism are also addressed to the representatives, for example the Association of Rural Tourism, the Croatian Association of Hosts in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Ceh of Restaurants and Tourist Employees, the Croatian Chamber of crafts, and today the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia. However, this would certainly not have happened if these legislative proposals had been followed by well-established and good democratic practices – I had already spoken about it, but I have to repeat it – simply, laws cannot be passed without any professional basis or professional analysis. On the other hand, no laws can be passed, and half of such laws is to completely ignore the process of assessing the effects of the regulations, and to this writing of e-mails on parliamentary representatives, various representatives of professional associations, and also those whose tax reform has led to the fact that no consultation with the interested public has been conducted. And today we have what we have. We have one package of tax laws whose priority is to try to close the income side of the budget and this concerns one at hockey way, regardless of what Minister Maric said that he was actually out there in January / February, they decided to go to this full tax reform, regardless of what he said they formed a working group that was supposed to form a proposal by June with which to go to first reading in September, in October the second reading. However, we can see that if this task force has drawn up a draft of these tax solutions, it is very clear that during the summer public debate is probably due to the fact that this has been the case in pre-election time, the question is how much citizens would trust such a proposal for tax reform. But that's less important now. It's my speculation, and don't hold onto it. The important thing is that indeed, I do not see why during the summer - unless the reasons for the election and pre-election campaign - did not take advantage of the space to conduct a broad public debate so much more that the Government with technical powers did much more dangerous things that were actually coming out of its circle of government that had only technical powers so that there was no reason for this one public debate procedure to be conducted. So today we have precisely due to a lack of communication we have a situation that has recently given up on the pre-election campaign of the promised reduction of the general tax rate from 25% to 24%, so we have a situation to give up under the pressure of a coalition partner from increasing taxes on bread, milk, sugar, medicines, books, movie tickets and newspapers. Now, I don't know if it's under the pressure of MOST or what my colleague said, I forgot my last name, I'm sorry, that it was actually a bone that was thrown to the public to get us to hold on to that bone, and so we could get through tax reform, fellow Lucic, some of them apparently a lot more important stuff. And then almost until the last day, he insists on increasing VAT on tourist and catering services, but under the influence of the stronger lobby of the hotelers, he's giving up on it, so the hotels are exempt, but this increase remains for the caterers because it's obviously their power to negotiate or blackmail, however you will at this point much less. In any case, the way we come to the Assembly with such important laws is certainly not something that can be supported. Speaking of content, I have already said this on the Committee on Tourism, it is amazing that this is how one important reform is set entirely contrary to some established contributions in the Tourism Development Strategy by 2020 adopted by this Croatian Parliament, especially because we see that some measures, and if you want to reduce the tax on catering and tourism services, have given some results in these three years, if you want the revenue side of the budget that counts in record, let's say, 9 billion to 36% of the increase in investment, investments are 4.7 billion... and to increase employment between 18 and 20%, I don't know why we decided to take the opposite direction. What I certainly cannot support is the insistence that the catering increase to 25%. It will certainly contribute to increasing the price of services that will ultimately be paid by our citizens, but on the other hand will lead to loss of quality staff, will lead to a threat to new employment, probably to a reduction of existing salaries and layoffs, and unfortunately, the hosts will be very likely to be pushed into the risk of a grey economy or in the worst cases of having to put out their trades. Similarly, this will reflect on the budgets of local self-government units as they will likely feel like reducing income from consumption taxes. And what I don't like about some of the discussions that come from the other side of the assembly is that the caterers continue to be identified as those who keep something secret, who don't work transparently enough. I think hospitality is not only from the introduction of fiscalization, but certainly one of the most regulated activities in the country. I mean when you look at labour inspection, tax inspection, tourist inspection, sanitary inspection, protection at work really their work is quite public and they're quite under a lot of various control mechanisms. However, we also received a letter from the Association of Rural Tourism of Croatia when we heard that in this whole tax reform there is much to do at the expense of perhaps Dalmatia in this part of the hospitality and tourism that will work on the development of Slavonia. However, as far as I can see, the Association of Rural Tourism of Croatia warns that about 700 such business entities will operate on the OPGs and agricultural crafts registered for the provision of catering and tourist services, regardless of some compensatory measures, also suffer certain damages and that they also do not respond to tax increases from 13% to 25%. The same question arises and whether this tax solution will lead to a reduction in the product of high quality domestic production that the hosts buy from the PDGs that are not in the VAT system and whether this will actually lead to the fact that the hosts are very often forced to buy some more expensive products in most cases that already have VAT in their price, as this will make it easier for them to nive the input and output VAT. Personally, I cannot support this reform because this tax sword will take 2.5 billion kuna to local self-government, leading to the abolition of tax exemption on the purchase of the first property, which was the only way for many young people and families in Croatia to resolve the housing issue. This reform will not end the gap between the poorest and the richest, it is likely to deepen even further. I cannot support the same and the reduction of excise duty on luxury cars on the one hand, and on the other hand the increase in excise duty on cars that drive the largest number of our citizens, they are lower or middle-class ones. I cannot support the elimination of tax relief on reinvested profits regardless of what was complicated and has shown a lot of shortcomings, I think maybe the system needs to be improved but not given up on this one measure. And what is in no way good is that social partners if you want those you directly committed to through the economic social council were completely excluded from this reform and that they are reading from the media what this reform will bring to their salaries, while on the one hand we have not found a solution to increase the base for 6% of public service employees to whom another government has committed, but there is a commitment, we will obviously not get such a long answer to that question. So teachers, teachers and others. What about that minister? I know it's not a topic, but it's just as important a problem for the Ministry of Finance behind the Republic of Croatia, just like this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4769	I thank my dear colleague Sabina the Voice. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4770	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, Glasovac, mentioned the caterers, I mean, I've already replicated several times yesterday and today and on the subject that I simply come from that area that I can't agree that most of this tax reform is breaking through the back of the caterer. The main argument was unfortunately supported by former Minister Linic, because when the government of Zoran Milanovic dropped the VAT rate in tourism from 25 to 25, i.e. 24% to 13%, there was no price reduction in catering activities at all. However, we have received an interesting projection from the Association of the Hosts on the home Board, the Tourism Committee, where they compare prices in 2006 and 2016. So, I'll just list some of the most important items used in catering, that's that coffee in that period didn't go up 33%, Coca-cola as a non-alcoholic main drink 40%, electricity 40%, public surface area in the town of Rijeka 37%, milk 22%, meat 37%. So we can't, we can't agree that the caterers are the sole culprits because then, in that period when the government of Zoran Milanovic relieved the sector, they didn't lower the prices. I mean, we need to consider this growth that I'm telling us they delivered, i.e. their parent committee, the Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4771	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Clarina, for her rep. And a reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4772	Well, you've been well informed of your colleague, Klarin. It's really part of the truth that's persistent and deliberately silent and most arguments against, I'm going to say it in this story, in this battle where they don't really want to be the biggest losers of this tax reform, although it won't be, it's still going to be the fact that they're being told, so what, so you haven't used the benefits of reducing VAT from 25% to 13%, but it's just not true. The question is the right to ask why suppliers are, in fact, well and to adjust prices in view of this increase in the prices of large suppliers. And on the other hand, it means 10 thousand new jobs have been opened over the past few years in the catering sector in the period when VAT has decreased. On the other hand, we can see that the profit may not have been so much growing in that segment but on the other hand we see where the traffic went, so they reinvested, they enabled new employment, they allowed higher wages to be made to quality personnel. Let's not forget that restaurants if you want to have a quality cooking experience, you have to pay very well. I think this will cause a really big problem in the catering sector. And I appeal once again to the Ministry of Resort and the Minister to try to find solutions for these, I think 18 thousand small ones, so I'm going to tell a craftsman who deals with hospitality. And in these few years because of this reduction, it's more like the same few thousand new catering crafts open. Now, if we're going to stop it, if we're going to shut it down, then we're going to insist on this solution. If we want to help this important sector of our tourism and economy, then we will find some solutions. As we went out to meet others, we could go out with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4773	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac for her reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4774	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that you mentioned the public debate on several occasions. When a set of laws is passed then is an extremely important public debate, so the expert debate is something that the profession agrees on but the public debate is that all our citizens have the opportunity to see and have the opportunity to read what awaits them. I understand that perhaps there was no time, I understand that the set of 15 laws, I understand that all these remarks should be processed but regardless of the technical side of the public debate is important because through public debate it is seen which proposals of the law are going on, our citizens see what their particular authority is preparing and the way it is. And I can also prepare myself, and I can make suggestions and comments through this public debate. There is always a number of quality proposals and remarks through public debate. Since here is the Honorable Minister sitting here with us for two days now, it is evident that he personally cares about this set of laws being passed properly so that I assume that between the first and the second reading, it will not be missed that the law that goes, not only that all the coordination and all the ministries pass but that they will be put into public debate. There is also a need to look at the Law on the Effect of Regulations, so there are some minimum number of days that are, but it is good, to have the opportunity for all of our citizens to see what it is in that set of laws because regardless of what we are convinced of this and what there is no law that has no relationship, or which has no consequence on our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4775	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark-Taritash, on the replica. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4776	You are right fellow Dark, it is extremely important that we respect the laws is passed by the Croatian Parliament, this Croatian Parliament. This Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations and the Law on the Right to Access to Information. Not a waste, but to advance certain democratic standards and equally respect the constitutional right not only of our citizens to inform those proposals directly concerning their lives, but also the right to participate in the creation of these proposals with their proposals, criticisms, enquiries, etc. And now, when we get this kind of email from the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia where the first sentence says, "Above all, we want to express once again the unacceptable way of working on the basis of which a proposal for a full reform of the tax system according to which among the thirty experts of your working group, this refers to a fellow minister, Mr. Minister, there was no place for a union expert only. It is a social dialogue and a non-compliance with the agreement on the establishment of GSV concluded between the social partners and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, at a meeting of the SGV held on 7 November, a conclusion was reached that the social partners on the reform proposal should be made manifest directly to the Ministry of Finance or through a public debate. However, you have referred all 15 tax laws to the parliamentary procedure for the adoption of an emergency procedure. That's not true, but it doesn't matter. But this is important, without prior consultation with the interested public and the opposite of the law because part of the law does not go through the mandatory procedure of assessing the effects of the regulations. And now I realize that it's sad actually that the government of the Republic of Croatia has already begun to break its promises after a month. That's not good. A lot of this could have been done, this outwitting through the media, this mailing through e-mails only to respect the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why it's important to emphasize. Let us return to the legal path of passing laws, until the second reading let us respect all that we should respect on the basis of the adopted.../Speaker excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4777	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac for her reply to the replica. Next to the replica, the esteemed colleague Arsen Bauk reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Glasovac, you asked yourself in your debate on how to pass and how to prepare these 15 laws and you mentioned it was a task force formed on 1.3 with 30 and some experts. She gave some result, it came to the government, and then it changed in one day. So there was no longer an increase in VAT on bread, milk and some other things were changed which of course tells us that even the best experts can't make such a set of laws that can pass a political test and tax reform is undoubtedly primarily political rather than an economic category. Because in the way in which the group is determined to contribute somewhat more to the common needs through revenue, the tax revenues of the state budget. And secondly, to which group we will give a little more through the expenditures of the state budget, it is undoubtedly one big political first debate and only then is there a smaller economic debate. In that sense, we have 4 working weeks until the end of the meeting of this Assembly to discuss the final proposals of this law, in which a state budget must be adopted which will implement what we assume to be voted in these laws in the second reading, which should take into account in itself all those remarks which may be accepted by the opposition, either by the ruling majority partners. Therefore, it is doubtless a big deal that I am not sure is in the time they have time to make it that it will be well done. So I would join those who have appealed to postpone this a little bit, but of course I am aware of the political reality in that regard. So try to do the least wrong you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4779	I thank my esteemed colleague Arsen Bauk for his replica. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4780	My colleague Bauk, it is clear to me why the implementation of this tax law package must in some way take effect or start to apply from 1 January 2017. That makes perfect sense to me, and that's perfectly clear to me. However, it is not clear to me why we came into this situation that those whose tax code, or tax laws, are going to be concerned if we take the assumption that we put this law into fifth gear in early December in an ideal kind of universe will still have about 21, 20 days to adapt and we can include the Christmas and New Year's holidays immediately, which then reduces this whole adjustment space to an even shorter time period. When we talk about a working group, I understand the need of this ministry, and it is good that the draft laws may not only be created by the staff forces of the ministry, that they are involved in working groups of experts who have something to say about it and outside the ministry. However, it is unclear to me why indeed if she was and there was a group appointed in March, and on the committee the minister said they had the task of drawing up a draft by the end of June, why was there so much to avoid assessing the effects of the regulations for the at least half of the laws that had to pass it? Because in assessing the effects of the regulations in this process, you actually announce the thesis and assessment of the effects of the regulations, open a public debate on what you want to change. In fact, there is a discussion about whether something needs to be changed, to what extent it changes or some things to give up. In order to comply with the rules' impact assessment procedure, we would have fewer problems today and fewer experts would be brought into an unenviable position in such a way that they professionally create one reform that is then made in the political laboratory in the midst of various political and other interest groups of butchers and comes in a completely altered form to the Croatian Parliament compared to what the profession recommended. There's a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4781	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac for her reply to the replica. This is what we're done with the replica after this debate. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Marko Vedligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4782	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am reporting for an individual debate as the head of a local unit because I believe that this whole reform breaks again with the greatest work over the back of the local self-government as already and so many times as ever. Croatia remains a highly centralised country where more than 90% of the total revenue collected goes to the central state. Despite the promises we have from the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, which clearly states in point 8.1 that a special emphasis will be placed on the fiscal and professional strengthening of local self-government units, and in point 7.2. on fiscal decentralisation, a new system of assignments will help local and auxiliary self-government units from the state budget with the aim of even development of the Republic of Croatia. All of this in this package of laws that is here before us is not feasible. Let's start with that first and most important law, so income tax law by raising the non-taxable share of income by changing tax classes. Local units we've heard today several times here in this House will lose between a billion and a half billion kuna in their budgets. The promise we have and it is not contained in this decision is that nothing will be lost in 2017, which represents a transitional year for which temporary measures will be put in place to actually compensate directly from the state budget. If I were naughty right now, I'd say it's probably that system that's been assigned to help local units. But this will only compensate for the deficit that will arise in 2017 due to reduced income from income tax. It means only to what amount he was in 2016. I again ask the question here what with potential growth from income tax in 2017 should happen if we all expect that there will be economic growth and employment cuts. What about that part of the income the local units should get, and this is not how it is. Example and comparison are specific examples. I mentioned it in the replica before. This year, in the first ten months of my city, the town of Predni they amounted to six and a half million kuna, while in the same period last year that amount was five million 884. So you see how much growth for Krapina-Zagorje County is also rising somewhere from income tax in the first ten months about two million kuna. The second thing I'd like to mention is that you've abolished the company's tax, so that leaves the local units without 120 million kuna, and there are no compensatory measures for that. It was made under the cloak of a disbursement of the economy which should be welcomed, we all welcomed it here but not at the expense of local units and their budgets, because we don't disburse the economy with cheap political points. The tax on the company, so local units can and should not be introduced. So it is up to them to decide on their own, and the second proposal we had on the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government is that at least it should be extended and introduced in 2018. But it's one of the guarantees the Most set. I don't expect any changes here. If the intensity of this reform were a real concern about the development of the economy, then in the case of real estate taxes introduced since 2018, which replaces the municipal compensation for which it is not too late. But he does not foresee any relief for anyone, nor for the businessmen, which means that we will actually be the best among the economics, and those who build new halls, who invest now, have to tax them despite some of us on our city councils, freed the municipal councils from paying a certain number of years in certain percentages. So, we called them in, invest. Freed for these municipal fees, but now such a possibility is no longer foreseen by the introduction of income tax. Here's another example, I know what I'm talking about. Since I've been mayor through this, I believe, in fact, that we've also contributed partly to having in the last two years in my city 10 million euros in new investments, that unemployment has fallen from 520 people to 220 unemployed from 31.10 this year, so we've predicted a release from municipal compensation for three years. So now what kind of message are we sending these people? Some believe they wouldn't have gone into those investments if they hadn't had those reliefs at the utility fee. The only compensation I see here from these documents is the real estate tax. I feel, of course, like everyone here, that it is unacceptable to abolish the release for the purchase of the first real estate and then also states that there will be other measures to help young people. But in those measures, we heard a very bad thing here today, and we didn't actually hear anything concrete. And that whole compensation is one spill from hollow to empty, because it increases the share of local self-government in this tax, but that's why the rate decreases and we're actually going to get back to the same level. So let me recap. Local self-government loses from income tax one and a half billion to two billion kuna, from tax on the company 120 million kuna and remains on the same actually with real estate tax. While the state generously gave up some 350 to 400 million kunas of VAT with changes that are still still in the air, no one can catch them, so we're increasing, so we're cutting down on the caterers, so we're going to cut down on hotel services only. So we were actually just trying something around milk and medicine as one HDZ agent actually mentioned today, and our main priority is to simplify the system. I see this simplification only through this elimination of the tax on the company, I see through changes in the tax classes and the formation of only two rates of income tax and the reduction of the highest rate from 40% to 36%, in fact, we only favour people, i.e. most of the people with the highest salaries. And obviously we're opening the door to introduce the so-called. Flat task, therefore, is the unique rate of income tax, and it is completely contrary to the principles that taxes are paid according to economic power, that those who receive more pay more and percentage more taxes. Because income for the sake of social justice is what I think should be taxed progressively, but it obviously fell to another plan by the arrival of this government. And let's say trends at European level, global trends tell us something completely different. The need for progressive, more progressive taxation today was discussed by the world's largest economic authority. Even American millionaires become aware of the necessity of such taxation. Because only because they know that the only society that reduces inequality can be healthy, strong, and prosperous. But while all the road, we forested or Plenkovic, Marić forested it in one week in his article by famous Croatian economist Ivo Bicanic. Let me get this straight. So you can promise that from 2018 for local units will be getting better, that maybe honey and milk will flow. But the new Finance Act, which is reportedly presented to associations of cities, municipalities, and counties in which all were delighted and opposition and authority, of course with the inevitable one if that is the case. But gentlemen, I must tell you that we must survive in 2017, in that year we also need to provide funds for the functioning of kindergartens, for the maintenance and construction of municipal infrastructure. In northern parts of Croatia winter will come to us, and if it will be a little stronger if the snow falls it will take 3 to 4% of the budget. Could it have been foresaw compensation, to give funds to our firefighters, to associations, to provide shares for EU projects? The fact is that if we adopt such tax reform that the revenues of local units will be reduced because it will be less than the income tax with all compensation measures, there are no taxes on the company, and the only compensation provided for in this proposal is to increase the share of property tax from 80 to 100%, with the rate of reduction from 4 to 5% and will likely be at the same level as it has been so far. So let's not defend this reform from the aspect of local units without saying a key message, which is that the revenues of local units are reduced in 2017 and that this reform is done again over the back of local units. The right to reform would be to give income tax in the 100% amount of units to local and regional self-government, to return the share of the profit tax at least part, to think about giving part of VAT and rewarding those transparent and local units that rationally spend their resources. Those would be real incentives, and I don't see them here in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4783	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Welligaj, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Vesligaj. You have spoken and here I agree with the conclusion that the abolition of the tax on the company or the name will not do much to relieve the tax burdens on entrepreneurs because the abolition of that tax comes from a completely wrong assumption, which is that the tax on the company or the name is too much burden on the entrepreneurs, and that in the budgets of the municipality does not feel God knows what financial gain. That's completely wrong. Namely, this tax on the elimination of corporate tax or the name goes to those companies that are the largest, most powerful, strongest, like small-trade companies, have branches throughout Croatia. While small companies that are concentrated in one municipality and city can always be freed by the municipality or the city, or the tax cannot be higher than two thousand kuna per year. And some units of local self-government that are fortunately richer, stronger and more powerful money, so the financial resources of that tax are extremely large funds of several million kunas. So removing that tax by me is a total failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4785	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Damir Matjana, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Marko Vezligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4786	I agree with you, my colleague. Of course, tax on a company is actually such a bill that it is of the highest level, meaning from the state level that the decree actually abolishes another one to express itself, an act of centralization, actually nothing else. So I repeat again, the local units could and should not have introduced him. So it's something that's in their domain, and it's actually affecting that part of their autonomy, too, because someone imagined it would relieve the economy. Partly yes, we said it here and supported it but we don't have any compensatory measures for it, and indeed our budgets are at least in these areas where I come from, they're really our appliances and we're going to lose somewhere between 2% and 3% of some probably local units and more in local budgets themselves and the question is how they're going to close 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4787	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Welligaj, for his reply to the replica. The next one came from a respected counterpart, Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4788	Thank you very much. You spoke to your colleague about amendments to the Income Tax Act and found that with these small salaries nothing grows without the big one growing. If you remember well, and your government spent the same changes to the Income Tax Act two years ago, so I'll tell you how pay went up, and you'll be calculating to me what these salaries should be now according to your calculations. So the one who had the salary of 2,400 grew 30 kuna after the SDP changes, then the basic personal deduction increased from 2,200 to 2,600, we are now raising from 2,600 to 3,800. The salary of 3,700 grew 56 kuna net wages we speak, 5,500 kuna grew by 363 kuna, 7,750 grew by 578 kuna, 11,380 1,427 kuna. Now we've come into these changes, now tell me how does that pay of, say, 2,400 or 3,700 rise to 1,500 or 2,000 kuna to make people really feel it by your calculations? And when we talk about compensation measures, you know that your economic strategist Mr. Greek was at the time when he changed that same law announced that he would compensate all of this through a particular fund and we knew that the amount was somewhere around a billion and 800 million kuna. We have experience that teaches us that only 500 to 600 million kunas have been recovered from that compensation fund, so a billion and 200 are permanently gone. I trust this minister who said he would do it completely. And now you're telling us that here's only this first question, in which way this salary would increase from 2,400 or 3,700 or 5,500 for some good amount so that everyone feels it's what you think it should be, and why it didn't happen when you brought such changes to the Income Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4789	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josip Boric, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Marko Vezligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4790	Thank you. Well, here you go, Mr. Fighter. You obviously didn't get me right here in one piece. So I was talking primarily about eliminating the highest income tax rate, so we're going towards a progressive tax. Partly I can agree with you here. At the beginning of my presentation, I said that this tax reform is being broken again through local self-government. So I said again. So that's the first thing. I'm not going to go into the calculations right now because I didn't honestly go in there that much. Thank you for this contribution to the debate. But I will say, at least I will say that through the tax changes that were then introduced during the government of Zoran Milanovic, and here is Minister Maric, if I remember correctly, also that there were certain positive economic effects, that we at least limited the salaries of officials if anything else. But I'm asking you gentlemen from HDZ now, so you have now the Mosta, too, but primarily from HDZ, you now have power in your hands, so return those tax rates to the same level. So this will also increase the revenues of local units. Well, that's what you promised in the end line, too, when there were these tax changes. So return them to the old tax rates they were before the government of Zoran Milanovic introduced this tax reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4791	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Welligaj, for his reply to the replica. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Klaric reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4792	Double co-worker Veiligaj on one and another basis, you and I know exactly what we're talking about when we talk about local self-government and what you said was going down the back of local self-government. Did it ever happen that any kind of reform didn't somehow hit the local self-government? But if this package of measures means something complete simplification of the entire forest in the tax system from the very diversity of municipalities and cities – you mentioned your Pregrad – I can mention my Bakar, preparing the budget for next year. With me, the income structure is such that my municipal revenues are planned for the next year about 26 million kuna. You must be different, and you have some other kind of income much different. It has never happened that regardless of any changes that have happened to you as you said the question of whether we will survive 2017. We're going to make it. He should be optimistic about all that. And I hope that the minister will keep that promise made in negotiations with municipalities and cities, the Association of Municipalities and Cities, that in the 6th month of next year the Law on the financing of local self-government is over. And in that sense, this period needs to be overcome and I don't see that there are going to be any major earthquakes in the functioning of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4793	I thank my distinguished colleague, Tomislav Klaric, for the replica. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague Marko Vedligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4794	Here's colleague Klaric on a double basis, as you said here. I did not even get too much into 2018 in my presentation except to warn these things about income tax, meaning changes in municipal fees and income tax. But I asked questions for 2017 because we really don't really know what we can plan our budgets with, and I think we have that problem. Definitely, 2017 needs to survive. And what brings us a new reform actually changes to the Law on the financing of local units, we'll discuss that when we get it here in this House and the materials and actually a proposal from the government that will go in that direction. But what I did, before I said it in one of my replicas, which I think is the problem. The problem is that we have a very short deadline now, and we're doing such a thing... It is a comprehensive reform involving a lot of laws. [[You don't understand.]] I said before that means that mature countries are doing such a reform through a long debate, over one longer period to see the real effects, and unfortunately we are doing this kind of reform in two or three weeks. That's the problem, that's the key problem, that's what I think is the problem. We should have united everything then – and changes to these taxes and amendments to the Law on the financing of local units – and then started in 2018 with actually a complete package of measures and that local units could be prepared, and not unfortunately now to enter one uncertainty in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4795	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague for his reply to the replica. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Davor Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4796	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with his associates. I've already discussed it, so I'm going to try to be a little shorter in this individual debate. First of all, I think it should be said that no one in this assembly is against the fact that, through a certain tax reform and economic dispensation, the growth of the economy, the growth of agriculture, the creation of new jobs, and I think that all those who have debated have a desire to do so in a certain way. And we also know that certain reform cuts must have some negative effects in a certain way. And what I have left in my ear these days and people ask me from the field – well, whose proposal came to the assembly – because here in the statements of some parliamentary MPs, but also in the media statements of some officials when it comes to some positive things then it is the government's proposal, and when something is not good in that tax reform then they say it is Maric's proposal, it is a proposal from the Minister of Finance. So now there's a dilemma whether it's a complete government that's heard this proposal well, whether it's in agreement with the government and if we're all behind it. Of course, it's good to discuss some things and fix them, and I personally support it, so here's my debate going in that direction that in this part when it comes to tax cuts we welcome every tax discharge of the economy and the reduction of the rate from 20% to 18%. However, in order for the finance minister to be successful, he needs help from other colleagues. I know he's a good basketball player and he knows how to do teamwork and lead, but in order for him to score a three, someone needs to pass the ball, someone needs to make a block or prevent negative effects. So I think that in this part of it must be the support of the economy ministries, not just the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, and the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Tourism and a series of other laws that need to contribute to the real economic growth. Because the fact that we have been waiting too long for a new law or for a better quality of implementation of the Agricultural Land Act, that no tourist land has been solved, that it is not an economic belt, that it is problematic to manage state property. It's a good thing now, hopefully, the new ministry will put that resource into operation. But the fact is that we are still at a rate of 18% somewhat uncompetitive profit taxes because in neighbouring Serbia 10%, here today Ireland has reduced its rate from 12.5% to 6.5%, the Baltic countries have 5% and our goal is to attract investment, create new jobs. And what should in particular be pointed out to be considered until the second reading that, nevertheless for those investments, for those entrepreneurs who will reinvest profits in the area where difficult masters are and that is Slavonia and Baranja, Zagorje, Podravina, Lika and not to list. Let's not stop these investments and make it possible to create new jobs. Because we have an announced investment in both Novi Gradiška and some other places in Slavonia and Baranja. And I'm afraid because of what the reinvested profits will get, there will be no tax relief is that they don't give up on their investment. So I call on the minister to hold talks with these investors and see how he can help them make these investments anyway. And he would certainly suggest that the model of how these investments in such areas be stimulated to actually happen because I think it is common interest to all of us because in their discussions many have remembered Slavonia and the quality of life problems in Slavonia. And we know that the highest rate and risk of poverty is right in Slavonia and Baranja and some other underdeveloped regions, that the largest number of young people are moving out of this area and that something must be done quickly and concretely. So unless the co-operation of state authorities in this area occurs quickly, it is not expected that this tax reform and the reduction of profit tax will stimulate investment because who guarantees us that the entrepreneur will actually invest his profits. Why don't they invest it in shares from some other company or some other investment. Let's say gold that grows on the market rather than in new jobs, and we hope it's the goal of new jobs and new investments. Also, this part of the problem of local self-government units has already been mentioned, so we would not return to it, but we welcome the natural reduction of VAT rates in seed agriculture, plant protection products, fertilisers, but also here we express the fear I already said that traders, wholesalers, producers of this part will not reduce prices but will leave themselves as a new profit and that our agricultural producers will remain there with great inputs. And I think that because of the difficult situation in livestock, especially in the dairy sector, it must be reduced to VAT and to livestock food, veterinary medicinal products and veterinary services. And that it should be considered, and also that it would be good to think about reducing VAT on a basket of food. We can see that there's already bread and milk but still some other products, the ones that make up the standard of living. I think you should think about it. We know that it costs, that this is in a certain way a cost to the state budget, that it needs to be compensated from some other sources and that it can be compensated through excise duties on some luxury products. And that would help the competitiveness of our agricultural producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4797	I thank my esteemed colleague Davor Vlaovic for the debate. We have a replica of a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Jagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4798	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vlaovic, as soon as you mentioned Slavonia, you somehow moved me to the line again. So very briefly. When you say the Minister of Finance can't do it alone, I believe you mean not only in relation to the Ministry of Finance, your associates, but all the resolution ministries. The area where I get to the nearest highway is almost 100 kilometers away. So, without all the ministries, in this case, the Ministry of Transport cannot ensure even development of the Republic of Croatia, and then with that in relation to the property tax which again if it is brought to the territory of the Republic of Croatia will not be fair in relation to my county I say where we must go at least 100 kilometers to get to the first highway. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4799	I thank my distinguished colleague, Tomislav Sagar, for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4800	Here I agree with you, colleague Žagar, that we must create such policies that will guarantee the smooth development of Croatia as a whole, especially those regions that are less developed, where economic activity is smaller, where unemployment is higher and this is exactly Slavonia and Baranja. And certainly, with a transport connection that is an important prerequisite for economic development and investment, other benefits must be considered. We know that local self-government units are going with the reduction of municipal contributions and the release of entrepreneurs from various municipal taxes to attract them to investment. I'm afraid because they're going to have reduced income, that part will be left behind, and that some investments will cause us to lose. And since you mentioned highways and the construction of corridor 5C, I invite the minister and all his associates to consider the possibility of re-using gravel and sand in the Sava River because we already have entrepreneurs who know how to do it, they also have the capacity to do it. Due to some strange circumstances, we gave up on this and, on the other hand, in BIH and Serbia, gravel and sand are removed from the same river Sava and most of the 5C corridor was built with imported gravel and sand and our entrepreneur in the municipality of Davor Mrs. Bara cannot get a concession to extract gravel and sand. And in this way, her five children will surely seek a way to Germany, which is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4801	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his reply to the replica. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. The following debate came from a distinguished colleague, Ana-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4802	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. So here's a respected fellow when we talk about the tax reform system, we think we should first look at all the facts, and that's how our fellow citizens live, how many with small incomes, how many have been blocked, how many of our fellow citizens have traveled from the country looking for a existence outside the Republic of Croatia because here they can't meet their basic existential conditions. Also, a realistic picture of Croatia was to be looked at, and this was especially to determine which areas are the poorest, although we all know who they are because here they are both from the government and from the parliamentary representatives of all are full of mouths and Slavonia and Baranja and Podravina and the Dalmatian hinterland. Likewise, it was necessary to look at the wages in these underdeveloped and poor areas, which are pay gaps relative to urban environments and what is the structure of the population that has remained living in these areas and then set goals and what is to be achieved with this tax reform, what as a Government and we all are responsible and we want to do and in what direction as a state we want to go. I do not doubt that we all have the same goal, and that is the prosperity of our citizens, that is to increase the standard of life of our citizens, that is to allow them to live honestly from their work, to have all the conditions necessary for life, not to leave Croatia, to ultimately live here, work here, give birth and raise their children because in this way the demographic picture of Croatia will be much better. Unfortunately, with this tax reform, I don't think we're gonna make it happen. This proposed Income Tax Act will deepen inequalities in society, since the new, that is, the new wage calculation will benefit those with high incomes and does not go to the hands of those with low incomes. And that says exactly the fact that a million-and-a-half taxpayers in Croatia will be exempt from paying taxes and that is a million-and-a-half taxpayers from the total amount of 2 million and 750 thousand who contribute to this society. And it is this fact that shows the great sadness of Croatia how small the incomes are and that is more than half of our citizens. On all of this, this tax law proposes that the lowest rate be abolished and that is 12%, while the highest rate is reduced from 40 to 36%, and it is precisely those with the highest incomes that should be included in order to reduce inequalities in society. Many of you have already talked about the consequences of the adoption of these tax laws, all possible calculations have been given, we have also read in the media how much personal income will increase, which group will profit from these proposed laws. But of course now we're going back to the beginning of my presentation and that's what we want to achieve and in which direction we want our country to go. Also when we talk about agriculture and we are always talking about agriculture and family farms and I am glad that agriculture has become very important and is being talked about in the Croatian Parliament. But when we talk about the families' economies themselves, it is an increase in personal deduction and this increase to 3800 kuna that will have no significant impact on family farms because they are exactly now approximately that amount, precisely because of grouping into the first and second categories of development. That's why we have a few suggestions, so here's to the minister if it's possible for some of them to be respected. First, the proposal is that the support provided by the family farms in the VAT system and which are taxpayers of income tax to register the support but not to be recognised as income and not to be taxed on income. In this way, family farms that receive around 30 % of the amount of support would be covered while large systems that are taxpayers and they profit in this way to reduce their profit tax rates, they receive around 70% of all the total support, they would not be covered by this proposal. In any case, we get direct support from the EU at 50% and the state pays or taxes income tax and collects most of the 25%, this reduction will be 24%. Similarly, here is another proposal that would have similar effects to this first proposal, which is to introduce a single 10% tax rate precisely for family farms that are in the income tax system. And the aim of our proposals is to keep more resources to farmers who would be spending precisely on raising their competitiveness through the acquisition and modern technology and improving production, which would ultimately result in increasing production, increasing employment and thus reviving rural areas. Similarly, when we talk about tax reforms, about this package of tax laws, here are also ideas and a proposal that I think would go hand in hand to the largest part of employees who receive minimum wage, which is always a painful point, which is to raise the amount of minimum wage, a gross amount because now it is only 327 euros and most of those employees who receive this small amount are very hard to survive, most of them are blocked, most of them cannot afford their children all the things they should have. And I think raising a minimum wage threshold is basically a solution that would go on the hands of a large part of our citizens. When we talk about reducing VAT to re-promatter, of course we welcome it, we have already pointed out by my colleagues from my club, but I also have to point out that it must also monitor VAT reduction to food because only in this way will we have the right effect in agriculture and what we all do here, in which we all swear on the development of agriculture, in the development of Slavonia and in the development of rural areas. We also need to look at real estate tax, i.e. the tax exemption for the first real estate that is hereby abolished and, as some help in demographic development, the reduction of VAT on children's seats is highlighted. I have to say like this as a mother of three that it's too funny for me because it's certain that such help or reduction of VAT on a child's seat won't help parents with children. As already said here, these car seats can be used for many years and simply is not the right way to help families with many children. There are much better, more concrete solutions to make the demographic picture of Croatia as good as possible. Equally, the property tax introduced instead of the municipal fee from 1.1.2018 I must point out that it was made on our expert council and one calculation where it was taken in proportion or taken for comparison of real estate in Istria, a 100 square apartment and real estate in Slavonia it was a house with a garden, with a meadow, with a small orchard where currently for these two properties the municipal fee was equal after the introduction of the property tax. We are afraid that the property tax for this kind of household in Slavonia would be a few dozen times higher, while the value of this property is essentially a few dozen times smaller in Slavonia. We are afraid that now that people are legalizing their properties in the end, it is because of the inability to pay taxes in rural areas and in the end, they will end up being legally legalized and the state can do whatever it wants with them. Tax on road and motor vehicles is also paid for by the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia. They will also charge their service will charge on this and VAT which will ultimately be for citizens a much higher cost than they could now do or pay in FINA. And just to end the income reduction of local self-government units that's also something...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4803	My colleague Petić is out of time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4804	Thank you very much. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4805	It's all right. He's reporting for a replica of his esteemed colleague, Mladen Junior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4806	Dear Vice President. I've been looking into my colleague, Petin, to address the budget of local self-government. I think we have to say that it's gonna hit the small midpoint rural part the most. With this increase in real estate taxes, the rural part will be the most affected again, but also revenues from local self-government. It is clear that large municipalities and cities that have over 10 million incomes as much as they will be able to do that is another thing, but municipalities with less revenue than 10 million kuna for which these measures will be 7,2 and 7,4 where they co-finance with 20 to 30% of their own resources. I doubt they'll be able to come forward at all because they won't have a lot of funds in their budget. Of course, Mr. Minister said there would be a settlement to the local self-government, but I also stressed that there was also a settlement around the mining rent. That's why I'm proposing to the government of the Republic of Croatia about the mining contract to change the regulation and that we know that the mining rent in other countries is up to 16%, we have 10%. means that it is the same increase in income to local self-government units so that they can function at all. I'm saying, I'm afraid local self-government, small municipalities won't be able to take advantage of measures 7.2 and 7.4 at all and that there will be emigration and such poor settlement in rural areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4807	Thank you. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4808	I thank my esteemed colleague for the replica. Although that's what I haven't finished, which is exactly reducing the income to local and regional self-government units and the last such act has lost a billion and 600 million kunas or more in Virovitica-Podrava County alone, we've lost a total of 20 million kuna, and this tax reform estimates are that we're going to lose as much. And then my question is here to the Minister, how in this way with less resources, how to achieve in rural and small areas all those projects that mean life in one small environment in a way that both residents of villages and small suburban settlements have the same conditions for life as they have in large cities, so urban environments, starting with municipal infrastructure, transport infrastructure, garden construction and all those facilities that they need to be to make life in those areas more comfortable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4809	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is distinguished counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4810	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable fellow MPs. Here's a lot of you got involved in the debate today, so it's easy to say today, and here maybe I don't know if the minister is going to be able to hear everything we're saying today. What you would say at the beginning, which is tax reform is comprehensive and it is very difficult to meet all. So one is a pot, one is grabbed from it, and then when you take it, you always give it to someone, and unfortunately you'll have to take someone. Here the opposition and position have agreed on many things. Many of the most often talked about local self-government issues, talk about taxing the first real estate, and I'm going to try to talk about a slightly different aspect here, or some of the little things that some have mentioned, but I don't think today is the attention I think we should get. The first thing I have to say, and this is that soon, given the hope not only of the Croatian country's declaration of orientation towards demographic restoration, we expect a change in the new population policy, or a new population policy, or a systematic approach to demographic restoration. And I think that the tax policy instrument is one of the main instruments when we talk about demographic or population policy. And I believe you all know that Croatia is in one truly invisible demographic picture today. Maybe that's what I believe you all know but you may have forgotten, the population from 1991 to 2011 fell by exactly half a million, or 4 million 784 thousand to 4 million 284 thousand. So I'm going to point out again that I think that demographic policy should go in the context of tax policy. But here, too, we have two readings, and I hope that many of these suggestions that the Honored Minister has heard will put many into the final proposal of tax laws. Here, for example. Next, according to the proposal of this law, i.e. Law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax. It is proposed that children’s car seats and children’s food and processed cereal based food for infants and young children should be in the group of goods and services at a reduced VAT rate of 13%. I wonder why they're not in this group, for example. diapers, why is it not clothes for children, diapers and clothes for children are something that every child must have and baby seats those who do not drive should not have. Since most of you are parents and you know for yourself about such equipment as wheelchairs and children's seats there is one wide range of prices, there are children's seats of several hundred kunas that meet the safety conditions of driving and there are children's seats that cost and the sky is the limit. So a few thousand or maybe thousands of euros even. So with this tax relief, I don't think this is a demographic measure and I'm stressing that one demographic aspect of tax reform. Furthermore, in the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, it is proposed to prescribe a reduction of the specific tax on motor vehicles with 9 seats of 75% and on motor vehicles with 8 seats of 50%. It is said that such vehicles are suitable for transporting families with more children. However, the figures tell us something different. In Croatia today, there are families, all of a million and 450 thousand families, of which it is, I have summed it up a little quickly, so I will tell you the indicative data million and 350 thousand families you have one, two or three children, and that is enough for them to have this personal car that I believe most of us have. Then we have 90,000 families that have four and five children and only 8 thousand families with 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and more children. In other words, here is a small population of 8,000 families, while this large population of 90,000 families has been ignored. My suggestion is to place this special excise duty, or relief, for 7 - seat cars. Because this particular population, or those families, has much more than families with 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 children, or maybe they actually do, means these cars include this special excise duty. Here I have to focus on the first real estate tax. I know that, in the present situation, there is one discriminatory provision for real estate buyers that is in the VAT system. But we must bear in mind that the poorer population buys already used real estate, old apartments, so that with this at the expense of those poorer ones, it is suitable for those who have more money and buy new properties. And on the other hand, we need another aspect, we have to... The view of this problem is that here is the historical city cores we always have one problem with the depopulation of that space and that's a space that is important, vital for every city, if that space we deposit cities simply die, that's the problem in my Sibenik as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we stimulate people to buy only new properties and with this measure we'll stimulate them then we'll have another larger depopulation meaning historical, urban cores. I normally have to commend here, I think it's a very good part of this tax policy that applies to tax relief, it's one real innovative measure and this way it stimulates and helps families with children. Although I see that some dispute is enough, it's never enough, but I think it's in this situation, it's making one significant shift. I also welcome the increase in excise duties on tobacco products, and I believe that rerouting these revenues to other areas can also contribute to the quality of life. However, since I come from a tourist region, I have to look back a little on the tax hike for the caterers. When passing any law, you cannot and must not look at just that material effect, you must see, or see, one culture of life. For the past 30 years, 40, over the past few decades, we have actually had a situation that what was once in the squares and streets of Mediterranean cities today has moved to the pecks, or terraces of cafes and restaurants. When we talk about it, we simply if we want to extend the time when... Attendance facilities must be kept in mind that the local population must come to these catering facilities and must bear in mind that the price of work is much higher in Western Europe, i.e. that the price of drinks, i.e. the catering service must not generally be the same as that of Western Europe, i.e. we must keep that in mind constantly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, here's to the end I'd say, the procedure has just begun, so we'll have two readings, I hope that all the suggestions that the minister today hears will respect them and that we will pass one law that will benefit all Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4811	Thank you, too. We have one replica, dear colleague Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4812	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Zekanovic, you are a new representative, it doesn't mean anything, of course, but I can't believe that you've absolutely praised everything, you're gonna be able to laugh and keep on, I mean it reflects your decency here, you're laughing at every replica here, I mean it's ugly, it's ugly for your culture, but it doesn't matter. I'm telling my colleague, Zekanovic, that you are...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4813	Wait a minute, I'm begging you like this. Well, don't do that now because they're laughing at both ours and the other way around. Let's not do a show right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4814	But, Mr. Chairman, I think it's ugly when I talk to my other colleague that he's benching five replicas, he's laughing at five replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4815	It's ugly. My colleague Klarin, you're laughing at people too, and you're commenting on everyone else. Let's not discuss it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4816	All right, all right. Can I come back?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4817	You can and you'll have 10, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4818	My colleague Zekanovic, I can't believe we know each other, of course we're from the same county, you're from Sibenik, I'm from Tisnog, you're in favour of demographic politics. It's part of your political action at local level. And that you can defend indefensiblely by me. It means you can defend the removal of the first real estate. What message do you personally, HDZ and the ruling majority send to young families? So is this an incentive measure because I can't now, I listen to you and of course I think you're part of the ruling majority and you're going to commend most of these measures, because I'm saying that not all measures are bad from this tax reform, but I expected you to say this tax reform please those who have 3, 4, 5 or 10... I've said it three times already. And we do not favor those young families who first buy their property because so far they have had 0% or young families to solve their housing issue and from 1.1.2017 they will now have 4%. So we're 4 times increasing these young families the price of their first real estate. So how do you think these young people can buy no matter what real estate? How can I buy it? They can buy it to go to the Split Bank, Zagreb or Privredna, our banks, of course, in foreign ownership to raise 80,000 euros on interest rates and to increase it by 4%. I personally cannot believe that you support this measure or that you have not said a single sentence of criticism at the expense of this measure as I consider absolutely the worst, catastrophic measure of this tax reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4819	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4820	Dear colleague Klarin, I've been reading some things so I'll read to you, obviously you haven't listened to me. So I'm even like this since I'm in favour of this law and I'm going to vote for it, I think I've even been too sharp and covered in some parts. And I said this, or I read this, I know that there is a discriminatory provision for real estate buyers in the VAT system so far. However, I believe that the Tax Law, if it has priorities in mind, is a demographic reconstruction of Croatia, then the laws are favourable to a target group, which in this case should be young families. So I said about that, so me, you didn't hear. And on the other hand, I'm still gonna say this thing. With any tax policy that you're aware of, I said it, and at first I can't meet all the target groups, I just can't because you have one pot, you have 100 kuna, and if 100 kunas we share on us here 25 and we want to give someone more, someone less, we have to give someone less. And it's just like that. I told you, I have listed here one five problems that I have pointed out and I hope the promoter will respect them but what you're saying is not true, or I'm also putting it on if it's possible in any way to respect this proposal to leave the first real estate in some way as a tax-free boredom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4821	Thank you, too. The next individual debate is distinguished counterpart Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4822	Thank you, Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I trust the ministers when you did these amendments and supplement laws and new laws and what you presented to the public about, you called it a full tax reform even though I couldn't agree with it, you had a certain vision. However, before your proposals came to the government itself, and rather than here in the House, your vision, or your proposals, has already lost integrity. First of all, the overall VAT rate was corrected, then the middle rate to the lowest, etc. So I'm not sure if this math, these calculations of pluses, minus what for the state, which for local self-government, which is the benefit for citizens to be accurate and credible. I'd like to believe that until the second reading something can be corrected but not everything. I believe you're aware of that, too. Furthermore, I would also like to mention the part of us all's interest in reducing the unemployment rate, in terms of demographic renewal, is industry. It's obviously like she's been neglected. We have in this House adopted Industrial Strategy, Tourism Development Strategy and a series of other acts, documents that are some guidelines. In the end, you have based this reform of yours, and I will call it on the national reform programme. You'll forgive me, but I don't read from these amendments and the addition of the law. First of all, I think, although I say I don't doubt your good intentions, I'm going to call these amendments to the law and amendments to reforms a strategic approach is missing. I am for tax reform, but in a completely different way. I'll try to explain, let's start with the strongest, most interesting maybe income tax I can absolutely support, nobody here in the assembly thinks there's anyone who won't support it, but there's always behind each of your proposals there's someone but. For a short period of time, I will go straight to the Law on Local Taxes, which is not a bad excerpt from the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units. But what's the problem is a property tax. I'll remind you again I don't know the third or fourth time. You replaced the municipal fee with real estate tax which I think is completely unnecessary in this way and you added as part of these real estate taxes on undeveloped building land. What is certainly in the text of the proposal when we talk about real estate tax there should certainly be coordinated explicitly, nomotechnically for the very understanding of the Law on Spatial Planning. Not a single law on spatial regulation that should be the basis when we are specifically talking about taxes on construction land and in Article 35 you are talking about the coefficient of the zone is the basis of spatial-planned documentation. Furthermore, the Spatial Regulation Act does not know that category. There are arranged construction zones, areas and unsettled construction areas. Unbuilt building land has been taken over from the Law on the municipal economy, which defines what a municipal fee is, for which it serves. So I suggest that if you continue, if you want to continue with this bill, you correct it. Furthermore, I'd like to convince you to remind me, and I said, I'll do it again. The Constitutional Court in February 2007 when the then Law on the financing of units of local self-government and this category of tax on unbuilt building land that was then introduced was declared an unconstitutional category of financing. The same will happen with real estate tax, especially in part of construction land. I believe that you will give it up and it is my suggestion that you withdraw this tax proposal, the local taxes, to withdraw from the procedure because it loses its meaning. Furthermore, I can't not mention another one, another problem when you say it's a full tax reform, it certainly isn't. Water compensation is on payments paid by units of local self-government agreement with Croatian waters along with a municipal fee. What's going to happen to that now? So you need to change the Water Economy Act. You need to amend the Law on the municipal economy, you need to bring a number of laws in line with this so this can be called, not considered a full tax reform. Furthermore, I cannot mention the income tax to the north of Croatia. I'm coming out of the middle, I'm going to usurp this right as well as make it more understandable, from the middle where the unemployment rate is between 5% and 6%. Three years ago, it was either 4, 12, 12 and a half percent. But it's the average salary of $3750. So it's under the tax base. 3750 kuna average salary. 3800 untaxable parts. Local incomes, tax returns. The city has 14000 inhabitants are 1090 kuna per capita with a 10% cut. Try to calculate how much revenue the city of Ivanca will make. And in Varazdin County other than the city of Varazdin which is somewhat financially stronger, I won't even talk about the municipalities. No city has more income, tax revenue than that average. Under the Constitution of the States, it is necessary to take care of the development of all parts. Article 49 is replaced by the following: The processing industry dominates northern Croatia from textile, leather, wood processing. I note, I do not think there is a more developed region in terms of entrepreneurship, investor attraction and unemployment. Maybe some far more developed environments. And what can I expect now with these tax reforms to be expected by economies in the processing industry? I don't think so. I think she'll be disappointed. You know what's the comment on cutting taxes on the company? So don't kid me. So imagine how you helped me. And you'll forgive us for that income of about 200 and some thousand kunas. The communal fee is written in the Law on the municipal economy to be determined each year. Well, we haven't, we've determined, we've corrected it from time to time, and how much of the utility maintenance program is the value of the point, the amount of the communal fee. Many environments in certain parts of the far more developed West, the south don't know where they're going with the money from the communal fee. So why don't you cut it down? Why don't you disperse your citizens and stick to the Law on the Communist Economy? It's hard, it's not simple, I understand. But the amendments to the law are flexible and it's possible to use it for other purposes, not pay, of course. Furthermore, I believe your intentions were correct. My suggestion to you is you won't listen to him, because I say at the very beginning before the law, the laws came to the government's story ended wanted you to admit it to yourself or not. Leave 2017 for good work. In HNS you will have a partner because everyone's interest is not only to the HNS but to all clubs here to make it, but in reality one full tax reform and that those citizens who have more to pay. Bring in the property tax. It's the most social, fairest tax it can be. Yeah, he's demanding a lot. Introduce taxes on agricultural land with that, on the forest. Then they'll be taxed. This could trigger far greater traffic of real estate, more quality management with unprocessed farmland, with forest management would not happen in Gorski Kotar invasion of the underpasses that started right out of the devastated private forests, not from the Croatian forests. So you have space, you'll have support in that, but here's my recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4823	Thank you. We don't have a single replica, so we move on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4824	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, here are two days in the Assembly to discuss the very important laws of tax reform. Of course, you as a minister cannot influence everything and all wishes can be fulfilled, however, when it is realistically seen that this tax reform is the consequence of what happened in Croatia i.e. those cycles after the Homeland War when the policy of devastation is i.e. estrangement of what the people have created through various privatisations and conversions and war profiting into essentially one series of post-war policies, which all governments have so far simply potentiated or are metals under the carpet. So, when we look at the areas, and we see that we have the Ministry of Demography, when we see undeveloped areas and local self-governments from these areas – looking only through their county of Vrgorac, Sinj, the regions that lost 2014 a huge amount of budgetary resources even more than 40% of the unfair Regional Development Act, one unfair, incorrect indexation where they declared the extremes of the Dalmatian Zagor, the hinterlands in Dalmatia, Gorski Kotar, the parts of Like, Slavonia, Zagorje, the developed landscapes which were an absolute lie – were done according to the criteria of political alone. So, local self-government mostly undeveloped areas and the effects of this tax reform, you said there would be compensation. However, many said there would be compensation. So at the beginning of this last term of government after Tihomir Oreskovic, Minister Tolusic said the new Regional Development Act will change in 2017. change of indexation. Unfortunately, it's not. You are expected, so we were expected to have a meeting together where the mayors from Gorski Kotar and Zagorje and Dalmatinska Zagor, General Krstičevic was with us, and I was in front of the Bridge. You've seen the state of these local self-governments, not your guilt as a minister, not this government, but all the previous governments. There's a cause. One of the key problems is now that we're talking about reforms is when we look at what's changing in the law, it's very problematic that we have a question of illegal origin of property because... they've become rich in trading, selling out social well-being, literally robbing. So far, this lack of origin of property has been taxed at a rate of 40, and now, according to Article 78, 36% will be taxed. I don't see why what's been robbed will suddenly be cut tax by a new amendment to the law. I mean, it's either an oversight, or it's kind of a goal that's better to rob, so your tax is lower. I think you should take a good look at it and it's valid, so it's getting old after six years. Well, there's no statute of limitations, I mean, if someone's acquired a company or destroyed a company, I don't see any reason to have an obsolescence. They're out of date, which is why we need instruments. It's not just the Minister of Finance. Of course, the IRS can, but so can the IRSC, which needs absolute independence from all political actors. So absolute independence. I know the Ministers that the IRS is doing a similar job, but at a higher level than the IRS, which has its own essentially institute, but the IRS is very important. I believe that these large fish that are floating that have created their empires on the burden of the poor simply have to come to pay their bill to Croatian society. I'd just like to say that you're proposing these reforms. You have to show the government's joint package here, so you have to tell me if you're planning in this first part where I've been talking compensatory measures – I know that your budget measure is a huge hole, I know that the incentives for electricity from renewable sources is the collapse of the former government – that you have to patch it up to lower the electricity. I know that this is a big problem and that it was a huge crime that unfortunately went through this Parliament to the detriment of our fellow citizens. But you simply have to be loud, bold and resolve because if we don't make that clear and show in which state the state budget is now on all these issues, there will be huge problems, because it will present to people or turn the story around. Of course, demographics are important, and you need to think about this first real estate. It's to be looked for, because these areas that are empty will be even more empty. Taxing real estate isn't going to pay, so we've got a lot of military stations in my town, and there's a huge military that's staring empty, and the state is disastrously managing it. We have a military not far from me Dračevac in Solin, it's disastrously managed and it won't be taxed, and local self-government can't handle it, and there are excellent spaces that are empty. So all these measures that you ministers have done with your team have their failures, your colleagues have brought you here, I hope you'll take a good look at it, that you'll respect it. The least important is the ego of all of us individually but for the demographic survival of our areas and for solving these problems mainly regarding the robbery of Croatian property and the acquisition of these pair of tycoons that have acquired great wealth that they simply need to be seen exactly where they are. And that's why it should be some law that can't just do that to the Ministry of the Origin of Assets Act. I think you should start thinking about it. Is if someone didn't have five kunas in their pocket in the 1990s or five dinars, and today they own an entire city and everything that was social is the owner of it. So it's very simple I think it can be solved in five minutes by that law, by proving this. It is not only in Croatia, it is in other countries. Can't someone on a property card have $17 million, and they pay him 15 grand a whole family if he hasn't got the lottery. If he's got a lotto man has to prove he's a lotto. It is very important that I think here to my colleagues and colleagues it is the law on the origin of the property, I think it is the most important that we here must rise above all else regardless of the political differences, left, right, center, protest voices do not matter at all, but that we must be unique to tell one people that the time has come to see how someone has come to their empires, how they have become masters of all Croatia, whether they are good with one political option or another. Now that she wouldn't weigh who's harder who's less difficult but it wouldn't matter at all or... That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4825	Okay. There's still passion in us because we have four replicas. The first is the replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4826	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Bull, I agree with you on this unproven origin of property. So far, the disproportionate tax rate of 40% is now proposed to be 36%, I think it's one bad message, and it should definitely be changed. Also, as far as this can be explored for six years, I think it's too small a deadline for such an important thing, and I think that since it doesn't affect the state budget or it can only affect positively, I think it's one proposal that the minister might take into account. There's been a lot of suggestions here, but of course you respect everything that's been suggested here, the question is what would the state budget look like to us. I think these proposals that don't go to harm the state budget, which send a positive message that they should certainly be respected. And as for the independence of the taxpayer, here I and Minister Maric participated in the Open last night, and there it was hidden between him and former Vrdoljak minister who imputed Minister Maric that he said that essentially the Tax UskoK should be depolitised, which, as an implicitly speaking, was some political body that acted politically with which I disagreed, which Minister Maric didn't say. But what's problematic and I'm worried that the IRSB will leave under the IRS is that this man who fought so hard last night for the independence of the IRSK called the woman who was head of the IRS and applied for his friend Zeljko Bilisha and asked to postpone paying the tax of $9.5 million. And then today I wrote one status on the facebook to call V for tax evasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4827	Thank you. He can answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4828	As far as the taxpayer is concerned, of course, there are some effects and results and independence should be maintained should not be doubted by the minister that independence is, and of course, an independent body, which is a smaller circle of people around it, the information will be harder to leak about anyone who is in the investigation by order or DORH or the police or the very knowledge of the IRS. Well, of course, the power-gathering will be in my neighborhood in the 9th constituency. where we are, by the way, the largest electricity producers, where the most damage to the Cetina River river is the largest number of hydrocentrals, but the wind power plants have come to our area and now they need that people who have suffered the greatest damage due to hydrocentrals, many of them have moved because of Lake Peru and Slavonia, and now because of these wind power plants because of Mr. Vrdoljak, there should be electricity most expensive in that area, and the poorest area. They release those wind power plants when you cross the mountains of Svilaj, Dinara at every step, and the most harm would be done to these people, and these are literally areas where they don't have household supplies. So much concern about the regional development of Mr. Vrdoljak, obviously there were much more important contracts, agreements, negotiations, and at least in the interest of the Croatian people, mostly poverty in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4829	Second replica, esteemed colleague Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4830	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Bulj. A little while ago, you mentioned the backdrop of Dalmatia as poor, so we know it's been poor for years. We can see that in this time of 25 years, they've certainly done nothing. So she became the poor Slavonia who fed both the hinterland and Dalmatia and Herzegovina and Bosnia, the people who came to Slavonia. We destroyed what was right and how we would destroy what one could not. But I'd be here if Minister of Finance Maric tried to tell him something. Mr. Marić, you give 12% of the hotels, so we know that hotels are owned by foreign property, most of them, the big chain and they get another privilege in Croatia to have 12% of these will have a higher tax, 25% and we know that all cafes and small restaurants are owned by Croats. So please, if these hotels and we give them any benefits, give them a condition that 70% of Croatian products must be spent in that hotel. And that's how you reward not only hotels and even restaurants. I would give them all 25% and whoever spends Croatian goods and is controlled and given the privilege. That would be, then Slavonia would rise, then we would rise, import goods from other countries, give them discounts and leave the money in their countries through their agencies that send tourists to Croatia and reduce normal prices and we still have no use. This tourism that happened in Croatia we know why, because wars are all around. Let's use it if we have to with taxes, make some kind of order, but especially get the goods, and eventually send people to Dalmatia to do it and deal with them. That would be politics, not if they were more favourable than others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4831	Answer to the replica of my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4832	My colleague Misho, I agree with you, Slavonia has been feeding and fostering all of Croatia, and it can be, however, obviously politics was not an interest. Today, unfortunately, over the summer of the people of Slavonia, what remains of young people go to work in hospitality and hotels seasonally, should actually be quite different. Earlier, people from Dalmatia, from other parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, went to Slavonia and were impressed with it because I have a lot of friends, relatives who went to Slavonia from those karsts, difficult places where there were few countries and they were simply fascinated by it. So now we have entire villages in Slavonia in these areas. What's the big deal? The important thing is that we're talking about agriculture 5% is milk now. Yes, 5% is milk, 5 billion left, 5% is good for the consumer. But the fact is that we have 30% of Croatian domestic production and they release billions invested. The desert billions came from EU funds, all of us full of EU funds, and only those who now sell on their own have taken advantage of them, because the OPGs have been opened illegally. And we let them, i.e. Croatian politics allowed them, the minister of agriculture allowed them not to come to the peasants' money to the OPG but to have trade chains. And I agree with you that domestic production in all markets, local self-government stores should be legally restricted, i.e. limit that at least 60% must be domestic products for that field. And it's the right law, you can't solve it all with this law, but in the perspective of anyone proposing it I'll support it. Here, who makes it professionally, I will support it because this is only a bargain for import lobbys and all the money from the EU instead of in the hands, in the pockets of peasants to survive in these areas, 50,000 Slavons went for it, went into the pockets of those tycoons that have trade chains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4833	The third replica is distinguished counterpart Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4834	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Bulj, for pointing out the problem of tax cuts on robbed property, that's what you said. Robbery of property should not be taxed, it should be taken away, taken away 100% and returned to Croatian citizens and therefore I support your initiative for the Law on the Origin of Assets. And he's not that he shouldn't have a limit to the investigation for six years but that should put an end to these things as well as to the war profit that the former SDP government has introduced and so does that. And that's where you'll get trust support for everyone and it should definitely be introduced. And I also hope that you, too, from the MOST, will support what we've been talking about all day about introducing a tax on first real estate because it's really a problem and that's exactly what's going to encourage the relocation of young families and those who can't buy anymore. I've been saying it the 20th time today even though it's been Mr. Rainer's problem, so he told me to repeat the same thing all day, but today is the world's tolerance day, so I won't mind him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4835	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4836	My colleague, the problem with Parliament is that we are parliamentary representatives here... 7, 8 months simply that click, when some in the opposition have a similar story to those before they were and vice versa. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's one big problem for Croatian politics to click on. As the great boss says Pharaoh's click you speak, but that's not good. I think it's time for the minister to listen regardless of SDP, MOST, the Living Wall, all of us here, listen and listen to what is possible, in accordance with the possibilities of tax policy, I'm talking about tax policy to fit into this law. As far as the origin of the property, of course, I think it's a very simple law to be, one who can't prove we have a tax pass, we have tax inspections, tax services, I can simply see people who didn't really have 5 kuna in their pocket, that turned them upside down, today they're tycoons. They may have acquired it fairly, they may have won the lottery but they must prove the origin of the property, they cannot be absolute rulers of Croatia, they cannot be over the rulers and they must not be mentioned here whether, if mentioned, they are then hit from all sides. ... that that time has passed, that this political force will grow in all political options and that we will speak normally and that, in particular, this Law on the Origin of Assets will come out of light as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's simply the only thing that can bring hope back to this poor people. People don't believe in anything anymore. What will the farmer believe? We encourage agriculture, veterinary medicines, medicines for farmers and remain the same 20 to 25%. Here comes the minister one more time. But these are huge costs, animal veterinary drugs, farmers' people. So there's a lot of details. I'm hoping until the second reading that we'll really do as much as bring the law into...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4837	And the last replica is the esteemed colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4838	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, you were wondering how someone with a salary of 15, 16 thousand kunas could report somewhere in his property card that he has some million-dollar worth, very simple. For that you've modeled there for several years. Let's say that if you are, you have the power of the SDP, so you have a minister from the SDP then you have a public enterprise like the Croatian Forests then sign a contract whose bonus is tied to the company's profits and then it's possible that when you finish a successful business year like this company that you have the possibility of getting paid somewhere around 3 million and 200 thousand kuna bonuses and you have a salary of, say, 25, 30 thousand kuna, I don't know what they are in public enterprises. In order to know what 3 million and 200 thousand kunas are in a year, I'm just going to compare it to us here. Here as a parliamentary representative for this amount to be incomed you have to work here in these benches for 16 years, for 16 years or for a full 4 terms which is not easy. You need to pass those filters, so four times you're in the Parliament to get a bonus of 3 million and 200 grand. So to get that bonus of 3 million and 200 thousand kuna because you're successful, now how did you become successful? [[Intruder Jandrokovic: I beg you, please do not throw.]] A little road workers, a little bit like this, a little hair, etc. And 3 million and 200 thousand kuna, and the entire administration over 5 million kuna. And then we wonder how? It's possible with a decent salary, plus a bonus and at the end of the year that amount. Because if it really happened, and I don't think it will, that man will give up on it, but it's really something that's embarrassing and it's left as an inheritance from the former government and you can't influence it. And I say one parliamentary representative for that has to do four terms or 16 years to sit here to get what he gets in a year. So there's no solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4839	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4840	So you took an example of the Croatian forests and it's really a disaster. I think they get bonuses, they manage state property, management contracts that tie up I mean severance, bonuses that's such a pride that I don't think in the richest states is certainly not. Well, a number of management contracts, so we have an example when the director is. The director or director of HEP's main man was removed because he was the godfather of the former party, from the former president and the second one was replaced, so his best man came. But it all paid later in court... So these are huge costs where the law really needs to be changed. Management contracts are only from local self-government to state-owned companies, to the public of all these companies, that it only combs public audits and that it's credential. I don't think we'd have a deficit. Here's just one example, how many personal vehicles we have in a number of agencies, in a number of local self-governments, what the number is just that the rest of them... from Friday to Monday the key in the mailbox. I guarantee there won't be a deficit. I'm telling you, there wouldn't be any deficits on how many public vehicles, official vehicles that the people pay so they wouldn't be deficits. That's one small item. That it is a segment, that if you need a vehicle, you should, but I know that many go on vacations, many take their children to kindergarten, but it is huge, huge money and I believe that you are right and regardless of whether HDZ, SDP or MOST or anyone else that you need to look for one measure because you cannot manage Croatian forests in this way. Forests in the minus, people relax, mostly these loons on the ground are wiped out, they're gone at all, and no one's controlling, and his bonus as in the plus. He's chasing people, and he's in plus, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4841	Thank you. Here's just another individual debate, that's distinguished colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4842	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of this current debate, I would first of all like to determine the state of income in Croatia. It should be said that they pay up to 1000 kuna, i.e. The income goes to pensions if I'm not mistaken, it takes 260 people. Up to 2500 kunas 1 million and 150 thousand people, up to 5500 kunas of some 105 thousand people, and there at the top of that pyramid we have some 550 people who receive a salary of 50 to 100 thousand kuna and some 150 who receive a salary of over 100,000 kuna. All these reforms need to be seen in this context. We've heard today how it goes to those who are richer or who are in relatively good property, they get their hands on the car, they get their hands on the pay. We know that whoever has more will get more, whoever has less will get less because they won't get anything increased, and if we look at the Law on Local Taxes had here a nice table on page 4. about how this property tax replaces the communal fee. I now cite an example of an apartment in Opatija 100 square meters, and on the left side it was built for various years from 1940 to 2008 simply along with the communal fee of 1444 kunas how much property tax will be paid in the new tariff. And we see that these older buildings will be paid less taxes and these newer taxes are significantly higher than boredom. And this last column, so we're talking about added content, there are even higher rates. And now imagine a young family going home, very likely it's about buying a new apartment and a new house in a new neighborhood where it's just being built. So in Zagreb it would be unknowing for Verbani and Lanište where I currently live as a tenant. So we're going to hit people like that more than they're paying for right now, and it's not once as much as that real estate tax I was discussing yesterday rather than in the long run. It will be every year or the question is which war and how often it will be paid. So this is another anti-demographic measure. To those whose law goes hand in hand, I'm not their constituent, they probably didn't vote for me, and we're not going to support this tax reform that I wouldn't even call tax reform, but here's some kind of petty corrections. I'd like to look back on a few more laws, first of all the Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of taxes. One law quite extensive like this in the volume of paper, there was not much debate about it. It refers to the exchange of information between tax administrations of different countries in particular in the EU, so that if someone goes to another country to take into account its incomes there, so as to avoid tax avoidance. However, I would like to remind you of something called fetka,... or the Act on Foreign Tax Accounts. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] We have him signed in 2015. The public was not informed in time so that many people came to the bank to open an account were uncomfortable with polling issues. I was one of them too and, among other things, wondered about intimate matters, such as how many family members you have who are abstentioned. Why does a bank need to know if you're just opening an account, your phone number, your family member, at work, if you're a politically active person? That's what it said. Where will all this information end? He'll end up in the U.S. Of course, citizens didn't get copies of those forms they were filling out. A lot of people stayed extra in the bank. Mostly one negative experience. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data with the following statement also announced the failures. We believe that in this situation the banks did not clearly inform the citizens, i.e. that the citizens are upset for this very reason because much greater data is collected than those prescribed by the Law on the Prevention of Money. Says Branka Bet Radelić, head of the Personal Data Protection Agency. And that's not all. I'm afraid this law puts our country, our institutions in an unfavourable position. So let me first look at article 66 where it's written like this. The fine of 2200 thousand kuna now punishes the legal person in paragraph one, in paragraph two, any legal person. However, in paragraph three says Croatia's reporting and uninformed financial institution if it does not collect the prescribed information etc. So the same thing is prescribed some kind of punishment. I wonder if any American institutions will also answer and why Croatian citizens are not explained. I also wonder if Americans come to America,... Are they there filling out forms that then come here to us in the IRS and then we collect it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, I don't. We are certainly in a subordinate position and we accepted it without the right public debate as it usually happens. I'd also like to warn you of an illogicality that I haven't found an explanation for. It's in the Profit Tax Act. In fact, the old Article 8 reads: ‘The profit tax is paid at 20% on the established tax base’. The new Article 28 reads: ‘Income tax shall be paid on a fixed tax base. It's two feet now. The first is 12% in the tax period, if tax revenues are reached up to 3 million kuna. And another 18% if income is equal to or greater than 3 million and one lip in the tax period." Now it's not clear if you have, say, 3 and a half million kuna whether below 3 million is paid 12, and on this over these 18 or all 3 and a half million is paid 18. Here, I'd like to make that clear, among other things. There's a lot of law. We'll give a final assessment tomorrow in the final address on behalf of the club. Here's my announcement. Once again, we're not gonna support this rush. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4843	Thank you very much. We have four replicas again. The first is a distinguished colleague of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4844	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Sincic, at the beginning of your debate, you referred to the Income Tax Proposal. You mentioned how many people have received up to 1000 kuna, as much as 2000. First of all, it applies to our pensioners. And I again appeal to that part of everyone has the right to 3800 kuna untaxable, regardless of which part they make it, so that the part where the property tax, i.e. from property rights, is considered to be final and taxed at a 12% rate, is allowed to enter this category as well, meaning to submit a final tax charge, i.e. tax application. First of all, I'm thinking about those agricultural holdings that rent their land. It's a nursing home with a hectare, two land that receive a fee of 1000 kuna with its 800 kuna pension. And now they're going to have to pay another 120 kuna, and on the other hand we're stimulating and liberating those with high incomes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4845	Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4846	I thank the chairman. I thank my colleague Sincic for pointing to a further crawling occupation of Croatia that is growing and bigger every year. Namely, I am interested in collecting data from Croatian citizens, as my colleague Sincic said, whether the same data is given when American citizens open accounts in Croatia. We also had a case today that in Croatia there was an office of some DEA that would also collect data and perform some surveillance here. He will not arrest, so as some small piece of sovereignty of Croatia is preserved. I'm wondering if the M.O. has opened his office in New York whether our officers are going there now and I'm also interested in them as our allies. So that's why our allies don't at least lift the visa regime that we have for the United States when we're already approved by friends and they trust us and we trust them. So it is essentially a patronage that is definitely not good for Croatia, and these laws, in fact, indicate quite white. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4847	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4848	Thank you, comrade Bunjac. So here's to warning of bad Croatian relations. The absence of a Croatian foreign policy strategy in a direction that would lead to sovereignty. I'm sure when the DEA came here she asked for one office to give them the whole building for free.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4849	Third replica, dear colleague Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4850	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sincic, you said you were afraid or you were afraid that the information would end up in the United States. So I can say that I don't care if the information ends up in the United States, I'm afraid young families will end up in the United States after this tax reform as in the twenties and thirties of the 20th century. But I'm also afraid that after this tax reform, the young family will end up even more in Dublin, Germany, etc. And then I remember all those comments in the HDZ election campaigns when they attacked Zoran Milanovic's government and said that we were responsible for evicting 100,000 young people from this country. Finally, I can conclude that this tax reform punishes the government of both poor and entrepreneurs in tourism and municipalities and cities, but which hurts me most as a young man and a young father punishes young families.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4851	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4852	Thank you, colleague, for your observation. So here are the citizens concerned about what's going to happen to their data and where they're going to end up, if tomorrow these data might be used somewhere against them, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is also concerned. As for making things difficult for families, not only for those who are now going to buy apartments and houses mostly in new settlements, so it is also for new construction, so it was also an incentive program for housing, etc. rather than those who have already taken apartments in these areas, which are in loans in these apartments and houses for 20, 30 years. We're going to hit them with real estate taxes now and we're going to hit them more than they're paying for right now. We are absolutely against new taxes in general, and especially for the introduction of real estate taxes because it is a one-way movement that will not end well as did not end well or the way of tightening the executive law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4853	And the last replica for today, dear colleague Ana Komparić Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4854	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague talked a lot today about the introduction of a tax on first real estate, so I made an effort, so I went to see what it said in the HDZ programme in these elections, which was called Reliable. Well, it says there's going to be an incentive for housing, so it says it's going to subsidize interest on loans to buy the first apartment. And that's how you write down a series of good wishes. And what we got right after a month after the election ended, 5% for young families to buy the first real estate. In addition, the minister said the other day that they would end or give up the idea of a thousand euros per newborn child, but the whole campaign was headed precisely for population policy, that it should stop the emigration of young people, that there should be an increase in the birth rate and all this nice, wonderful campaign alone. And I'm going to repeat what I said five times today, this tax policy is going to break through people's backs because it goes to local self-government units, so the state won't lose anything, but it's going to happen that at unit level local self-government is going to grow exactly what young families pay for, from kindergartens, schools, extended stays, marends, lunches, anything that subsidize local self-government units, simply won't be subsidized. The taxes will grow because local budgets will have to be filled, not to mention the sport of culture, so all of this will be the result of this tax reform because I doubt the state will find the money to return to local self-government units nearly 2 billion kuna. It's all gonna happen. pay at the level of units of local self-government. [[Intruder Gordan Jandroković: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4855	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4856	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, even yesterday, I was underlining one illogicality in the introduction of this reform, so it would be logical for the majority to agree to what was spoken before the elections, which the voters gave confidence that according to the fact that, if it had not already agreed before the election, some kind of programme would be based on that programme with professional services, so these are services that have capacity. A small party has the capacity and resources that the ministry has, when you have those resources then work out a reform towards some goals, so first it's political will, then the profession implements it. However, we have had the reverse situation here that this reform came from somewhere then it was presented to the prime minister, politics, there was even a conflict between the MOST and HDZ, so they did not agree before, they did not go through it during the negotiations, but now they clean up these conflicts in public and show they did not prepare what they wanted to vote on, so the situation is reversed. And that shows clearly that this is one time without a vision. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4857	Thank you all. So this is where we ended our individual debate. We continue tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. debates of representatives' clubs eventually for ten minutes. So far, seven representatives' clubs have registered, so we expect to bring the debate to an end during the morning, and we count on the vote to be at 12 o'clock. Thank you very much. Session interrupted in 19.40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4858	We have now moved on to those, so the final views of individual clubs and will be the first to be the HNS Club HSU on behalf of which the distinguished vice president of this house, colleague Ivan Vrdoljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4859	Thank you very much, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! According to this final word on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retireds, we should primarily say that we welcome this intention of all tax amendments to the Law. Wide, clear intentions where frequent changes in tax systems are essentially stabilised at the beginning of the term of office. I don't think that's reform, but less important. I think these are tax measurements because the reform changes the system of functioning in the long term. We don't have much change in the system here, but less is the name. But that, as the main objection that we can make today, and that will also be made in the amendments, and hopefully in the further work of this Parliament, is taken into account, and these are people: the strategic documents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the Parliament and of the Republic of Croatia. We've brought some of the strategic documents unanimously in this House. And I think that, and I'm at the very end of the line and in my performance when we talked about a government appointment, I wished for happiness, a lot of success, to stand at our disposal for any help, but that you should not ignore strategic documents. Because there is an exact definition of the path of development of the Republic of Croatia in various sectors. Not only in taxes but also in industrial, employment, human potential, education and in a number of others. I, in these tax changes, unfortunately have not seen a single review of the strategic document. It may be an exit that following these tax changes follow other changes that will fix it in the law of not knowing how to encourage investment in curriculative reform. But there must be a review of tax rules and changes. So we have a strategy for the development of tourism in Croatia, it has already been said countless times here. There's one thing that says, we're going to the other thing. We have defined in the Smart Specialisation Strategy exactly sectors that can increase exports, competitiveness, productivity, higher share of highly educated labour, all that Croatia needs – there is no reference to the Smart Specialisation Strategy. We have an industrial strategy that says what key sectors have the potential to export new employment – there is no reference to tax changes or to this strategy without talking about the Innovation Strategy or investment in research and development. And I am sorry that in these tax changes, perhaps the entire vision of Croatia as the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not presented, and we can expect it not from the Minister of Finance, but from the prime minister that following these tax changes, the next steps that will show Croatia in four years – will be an extreme import economy, whether there will still be 60% of personal consumption in the structure of GDP, how much GDP will participate in the growth of exports, how many investments – and if it were presented, in part, it will be in the budget, I expect, then we would have a clearer picture of where these tax changes can take Croatia. If we don't see what the next steps are, if we don't invest in research and development, if we don't support innovation, if we don't support lifelong education, curricula reform, requalification and tax, if we don't support exporting Croatian industries such as ICTs, I don't see why we're not here with all of these – we have a reduced VAT rate for car seats, so I don't know, we don't produce them, nor are they in any way important costs – and nobody mentioned ICT industry that is 90% exportable. Let's think about it in the second reading, and we'll give our amendments and we'll all think together about maintaining both deficits and public debt, but let's see what can reduce the import component of the Croatian economy based solely on the growth of personal consumption, and what can increase exports, employment and economic growth on the basis that are not from 2006 or 2007. We had a great GDP growth back then. It led us to a huge crisis because we were an extremely import economy. So, after these tax changes that will be slightly clearly corrected during the second reading, let's think together about how to implement strategic documents with other measures that we can not only through tax policy. Let me take a quick look at the income tax. Excellent intention of increasing income, reducing tax redundancies in labour prices. Commendable! Congratulations! We support! It's really a big problem for people that we don't have exact compensation measures for local administration. We have to have the exact calculation and we expect it. We have an honorary word from the finance minister, but it must be meant by the local and regional self-government units' own income that does not happen to us that any city, or municipality or county depends at any time on who led it depending on the well-being of any minister, or assistant minister or deputy minister, secretary of state, whatever, but that is precisely known what the incomes of local and regional administrations are. It's direct centralization. If we don't have a clear compensation measure, it's direct centralization. We talked about decentralizing the country. The profit tax is extremely commendable for these small entrepreneurs and craftsmen up to 3 million kunas to cut the profit tax. It's good to cut the profit tax from 20 to 18. It may not be crucial today, but the message is good, a trend that from now on, every chance will continue to decrease. Increase the recognised cost of the team from 30 to 50%. Maybe it could have gone to 70? It's all commendable. But there's no reason for a reinvested profit to be abolished in that whole package. We have an industry to further capitalize. Let people invest in their production. Maybe simplify the system. The argument that it wasn't used enough might have been complicated by us. You can simplify it. And anyone who invests in their productivity or higher production capacity, especially the exporter, so we can give him a reinvested profit. As far as real estate tax is concerned, I think we as the Croatian People's Party have been clear for several years, it is not ready, it will not be good. We strongly oppose and abolish the privilege of buying the first apartment. But OK, that's the choice of the ruling majority and we'll be clear about that attitude and in the second reading. At VAT, raising thresholds, excellent up to 300 thousand kunas from 210 to 300 thousand kuna. I think it's unnecessary and not in line with the strategic documents of raising VAT to catering services. There's a lot of things that's been said here. Consider some other measures or strategies that we need to realize. We can't look unilaterally at the tax system from the rest of it. We need to look at the width, where this Croatia will end up, where we will base our growth, where our children will be educated. So we can't bring in a strategic document and bring in a tax policy that doesn't match it. I've already said that about things like car seats and stuff. I find it completely unclear, but it is very commendable for the re-promoting in agriculture that is necessary and we also agree and support it. I think that too is the attitude of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, social policy cannot be guided through tax policy. We need to lead the tax policy to economic growth, export, investment, healthy GDP growth, not import GDP growth, employment, and then create enough fiscal capacity to manage social policy through the Ministry of Social Welfare. If I were to draw the line, I'd like to hear it through the second reading of both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Accurate exact figures, which results expect from this tax reform. If that is 0.5% of GDP growth compared to 2016, if this is the import envisaged, exports, investments, state spending, we will probably see it in the budget and responsibility as the light motive of every serious policy. Responsibility and result, the responsibility of those if all of this is presented, which should bring which result of this tax change, who is responsible if that does not happen. The Croatian People's Party and HSU Club will also refrain at first reading on all these proposed amendments to tax laws. We won't mind because the intention is good, and we need to support good intentions together. The content is not dressed and we will be abstentioned to give our amendments at the second reading and then I expect from the ruling seriousness, to respect the strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia and that we are no longer Importing rather than being an export country. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4860	Thank you. We have some replicas. He's the first person to represent the Blessed Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4861	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vrdoljak, I am unable to say this now for the sake of the general public, because I cannot take the impression, first of all, that your debate was very correct and orderly, but I can't help but think that very constructive proposals, either on the left or on the right, come in the afternoon, in the afternoon debate, in the evening debate, at the time the light cameras were turned off. We've witnessed these two days as we debated through clubs and individually that during the mornings, I guess the lights of the reflector, we're mostly on the left, and there's no constructive measures. I'll say an example: during the afternoon, several proposals such as the ZAMP arrangement were issued yesterday afternoon to meet for tax measures for the caterers, so the proposals were made to release real estate tax in archaeological zones A, in some ways liberate because people can't even look at their properties, so the proposed proposals were drawn up, let's say that what you said through your debate were necessary to put into the procedure of this Law, compensatory measures, in order for local community leaders to know what was really waiting for them. But I'm telling you, you've had a constructive discussion, but I have to say once again, not only through this debate, but through a series of discussions, always in the afternoon and evening hours of work of this Parliament, those who want to do their job, are really making real proposals, making initiatives out of it, and during the mornings, while the cameras are on, the lights of the reflector are open, many, really here, so you've seen through this break, want their five minutes of fame, and so they think they've scored, not giving constructive proposals to solve such a crucial law that we all need in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4862	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the House will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4863	Here's how you saw it, and I guess now that the cameras are on, I don't know now that the cameras are on and when they're off, I'm not following it, but now that the cameras are on we want to be constructive opposition. And we've praised a series of things. We just said that we should agree together on a strategy where Croatia will end in four years. Not in 2017 fiscally, or 18, but in 20, 25, to specify this on a daily basis. And we really want to be constructive. As this afternoon looks like, if someone at some point for populist and extremist reasons abused this pay phone, we're all aware that this is happening. We try to be polite, constructive. Don't hate, don't lie, don't talk about people and slander in unfounded ways. You did not experience this from members of the Croatian People's Party or from MPs. And that's what we're gonna keep trying to do. Why? Let us guard this institution and guard our country because this coat of arms here, which is above us, obliges us to honor every member of this House and not to slander or lie about it. And contribute to constructive debates. That's how I always tried to work, and that's how I'm gonna keep working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4864	Thank you. The next is the replica of the representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4865	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Vrdoljak, I agree with you, I am against first-real tax. As for the catering tax, to increase to 25%, I have already said, I advocate a compromise solution to increase the tax to 25% only for alcohol and beer, and the rest of the catering offer to remain on what it is. As for the release of tax reliefs for banks in case they write off debts, it would not be a bad idea to know if there is some kind of agreement under there with banks regarding arbitration. Because there might be some kind of secret agreement we don't know about. As for the profit tax, I already said yesterday, and now I'm going to repeat that I'm in favour of introducing three classes of profit tax: 12, 18 and 25%, but given gross profit, not income. Because someone who has fewer incomes can have more gross profit than one who has higher incomes. So that doesn't have to be the main criterion. And the last thing I'm saying is that I've been invited by the citizens to give me instructions on what they're being tortured by, so people who are very taxed, to give me instructions on how this should really look, how it should be done in practice, and I'm going to be their voice between these two readings, and I'm going to suggest in writing everything I haven't been able to propose during this debate because it was too short of time to prepare myself, and I'm not even a tax expert, so I'm going to need inputs from people who understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4866	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4867	Thank you, Vice President. So, for a short period of time, I didn't look back at every detail because these tax changes are really broad. One of those I haven't had time to look back on, but there will be opportunities in other readings and in the extreme line of amendments, to get an answer to what's going on with these NPLs. Which means "recognition tax," "one-time write-off." So far, it's been there, as far as I know, but only for the part that's been mourned or done. Who was tried to sue, execute. Now it's going to be an estimate of banks that are invulnerable. If the result is who, according to the finance minister, that they will write off debts to citizens and businesses, it is a miracle of measure. No one could have imagined that it could come to that. I'll sign it right away. But that's impossible, that's what my colleague Lalovec explained well. They'll most likely after this, if we don't have some deal, and it would be good to have a deal, sell their claims for 30, 40 percent of the value, and then some off-shore companies will do their due diligence on those same claims. If it comes to that, it will be the responsibility of both the finance minister and the prime minister and the entire government. Well, I believe they're aware of that, so they're not going to do it, that they're going to write off the banks, that the banks are going to sell after the discount, and then they're going to continue with the executions. If they put together a bigger deal, I'll sign it. Unfortunately, we have not heard that answer, and it is good that we are in the first reading. So let's wait for another reading. I believe it won't work for itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4868	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4869	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Vrdoljak, you have expressed your desire to be informed by the minister about the consequences of the tax reform. However, this was not about desires; it was about commitment. So, for more than half of these laws, it was necessary to implement the process of the effect of the reform, and that was not here. And it wasn't because, among other things, this reform was put on this kind of super emergency procedure without regular and legal procedures, which was done by the minister and the government because they were essentially not interested in the procedure, nor were they interested in the opinion of the representatives, but simply count on the party's discipline to do its part. A small group of up to thirty people gathered in which many relevant factors were left out, e.g. The representatives of the union, and now it's out of place here, for example, from the truck, the sculptors in the Parliament, here are 15 laws, and we're going to vote on that as soon as possible, regardless of all the objections and therefore the legal procedure itself. Well, therefore, given only that part of this tax reform should be rejected and therefore, a completely different process of its acceptance should be referred to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4870	The Vice President of the Parliament will answer, Your Honor, Mr. Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4871	Thank you very much, colleague Reiner. So I believe that until the second reading we will get exact figures for the financial impact. That's not the problem. That will be relatively easy for the finance minister to present financially. What I'm looking for here is the general effect of people. We will have a trend in two years that our imports will increase extremely because we will have greater personal consumption and that exports will slow down with growth. It's going to happen to us in 2006. In 2007, if we don't have any measures afterwards. That's why I wanted to get a vision. Croatia, not only of the tax system, but of the education system, employment, export structure, services, strategic documents that the government must present with these tax reforms. We'll get the fiscal effect. Well, I'm expecting it, so we'll get it in the end line on the budget, so you'll see exactly what the fiscal effect is going to be. But that's not the only goal. Tax reform must be in line with the other intentions of other resolutions in the government. We need to look at people's general picture at the beginning of the term of office. And that's where we want to make our contribution, and I expect it from the government. As for the united debates, your representative of the Living Wall Club also said at a meeting of all clubs, he supported a united debate, and we were initially against it, but because it's really wide and it's easier so let's say the arguments come out individually but we met to say that it's half the eleventh month now, that by the end of the year we have to adopt the budget, that these changes must be reflected by the following year. I don't have a point of view that we all need to reject tax laws. We don't need to. They have to go, but let's fix them what can be fixed and let's call on the current document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4872	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the president of the next club, I'd like to read you a note. So, the sixth session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which was called for today at 11.00 p.m., will take place after the vote in the Chamber Ivan Kukuljevic, Club of Representatives, not at 11.00 p.m. but after the vote. Here, and now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4873	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. After this comprehensive debate, I can agree with this policy framework that my colleague Vrdoljak presented. I would narrow it down a little bit, so I would say the objectives of this reform are not reforms for reform, but reforms that will improve two things. The consumption of citizens and investments. So this tax reform should ultimately lead to that. Why I don't think that's gonna happen completely. That's the goal of explaining in this final debate. First, let's start with a income tax that should be lowered, so to speak, to citizens somewhere around two billion kunas. However, what is very important to note, the lack of this reform is poor distribution. So somewhere around 770,000 of our employees won't get a single kuna through this reform. So somewhere he pays up to 4 thousand kunas won't increase, net wages up to 4 thousand kuna. The salaries of 4 thousand kuna, up to 13,000 kuna, which is a large range – 9 thousand kuna – will mean that everything will grow between 50 and 250 kuna. This calculation, of course, is based on a relief for one child on average or one family member. This was relatively seen only 1 to 2% of salary growth, net salary growth. That's not enough. That's not a sign of what they'd say. Furthermore, the salaries of more than 13,14 thousand kunas are beginning to grow progressively. So, this growth is going really very, very progressive, so then the growth goes from 500 kuna to, say, salaries net of 40,000 kuna, that growth is 3 and a half thousand kuna -- almost 10%, almost 10%. And at the wages of 70,000 kuna, and in some public enterprises, or rather speaking to companies where the state still participates significantly in ownership, let's say that the salary of 70,000 kuna increases more than 7 thousand kuna. So more than the average salary in Croatia. Is that fair? Compared to our reform we had a year and a half, two days ago, the situation was very different. Now you're not going to see it, but there's a chart that clearly explains where our reform has particularly affected wages, and there's a higher salary growth between 8 and 13 thousand kunas. That's what we call a middle layer in Croatia. So we have significantly increased the wages of the middle class, and of course I agree, these salaries that are not significantly taxed through income tax reform cannot be significantly increased. But the important thing is that we have improved the position of the middle layer, which is actually the bearer of every society and every community. And the wages above that you see, there's one straight line, we've limited to a thousand kunas of growth, which means that every higher salary has grown relatively less than the one that's first grown a thousand kunas, and that's the important difference in access I'd say a social democratic option, which is solidarity and justice in the first place, which is for progressive taxation – I have to say it very honestly – not for a flat tax, because this reform is going towards a flat tax. So one foot in the future, probably one of 20, 25% for all incomes. We don't agree to that. So if in one of the United States as the world's most liberal economy you have 7 rates of income taxation, why should Croatia be one? It's not fair to me. What I'm saying is, this reform in no way can satisfy a million and 200 thousand pensioners. They don't get anything from this. But what's even worse, the average pension with this salary growth will fall into her average salary. So already, the average pension has fallen below 40% of the average net salary, which is actually below the social minimum and something the minister in that section needs to prepare and do. Is that one one-time alignment, a few percent that will raise the average pension above 40% and make one model, so I would say not only indexation, but also some pillars of maintaining pensions above that 40%. So one spare position. Is that about GDP growth? Is this some kind of correction that's related to another economic parameter, you're going to think about it, and you're probably going to suggest to us here. But I think it's necessary. So, indexation over the last two years for deflation actually couldn't ensure adequate pension growth that would follow at least approximately salary growth. Unfortunately, this is such a macroeconomic situation. But I would say because of this extraordinary fact that deflation happens once in 10, 20, 30 years. So it's not the usual thing. A one-time pension correction should be considered in order to achieve that social effect. Another important thing I wanted to highlight as the area of this reform is this part of the tax reduction on profits. He's obviously desirable, so that move should actually leave more funds for the economy. But on the other hand, what is not good is that practically the total cost of this reform is borne by one single sector, which is tourism and hospitality. Here it is mentioned many times, I only want to confirm it once again and emphasize, a billion kuna for this sector at this point is too much, it is a great price that this sector must pay, and take the overall effect of the tax reduction on profits will be 375 million per year. So there's too much disproportionateness and disproportion between these effects. You cannot punish one sector, and especially one that has been a key economic sector in recent years, which invests the most, employs the best effects in terms of growth, so it grows twice as much as the total Croatian economy. In this part of income tax, I have to go back to another important thing I mentioned in the debate. It would be very important these days that all the leaders of the local and regional self-government units find out how you're going to compensate them for these 2 billion kunas. It's very important, believe me. There are many open issues, people are afraid of planning budgets and how they will live until the next local elections, and then beyond that. One more thing here, a little bit of a word, here I am looking at my dear colleague with whom I am very pollemizing about it, there has been little talk about the effects of this reform on regional development, and I ask you to take care of it. Therefore, the idea to bring down total income tax to the local level eliminates the possibility to prefer and prefer areas of preference, and should be preferred, areas of special state concern, or less developed Croatian areas. You know that at this point these areas have a significantly higher share of income tax than other units of local self-government. If we're going to bring the whole tax down to the local level, then there's more chance that we're not running regional policy in that part. And one more thing about this is that personal salary gains on PPDS have been equaled with total personal deductions used by all other citizens in developed parts of Croatia. That's another moment to keep in mind. This means that there will be no higher wages on PPDS based on tax relief, that means that the measure that should have attracted teachers, professors, doctors and other people to stay alive or settle in these areas and perform essential social and social functions. So that effect will no longer exist. This should also be taken into account in the adoption of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. There are many more things that should be mentioned here, but I cannot bypass this key that has already been discussed here, which is – giving up the general rate of tax, from reducing the general VAT rate we have connected to so far in the debate both on the Committee and here with the fact that it can indeed be a sign that it is a compensation for less income that will come from the income tax when the banks of their opportunities, which you have provided to them by this Law, take advantage of. And that means that they write off claims based on NPLs, based on hard or non-performing loans. Therefore, the state will obviously receive less profit tax due to these reliefs granted to banks. I assume you've compensated that by just giving up the reduction in the general VAT rate. Honestly, I will repeat it once again because I have already said it in the debate, we have always been against touching that general VAT rate at this point because we think that the situation in the Budget is still fragile, sensitive and that we should be patient and that we need to get out of the excessive deficit procedure, and then just reduce the general VAT rate. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4874	We've got a lot of replicas on your exhibit, so let's take it in a row. The first is the replica of the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you spoke about the reforms she has implemented, so tax reforms carried out by the government of Zoran Milanovic. The fact is, therefore, that these reforms have also entered the manoeuvre of the funding units of local self-government. However, the fact is equally that the government also had full compensation measures. In fact, an increase in the share of the income tax of mountain mountainous mountain areas is a compensatory measure, an increase in the share of profit tax in the second category of local self-government unit is also a concrete compensation. Forty million kuna in the position of mountain-mounted areas, concrete compensation. The increase in forest contribution to mountain-mounted areas is a concrete compensation. Unfortunately, the last government has completely ignored these compensatory measures. That is, therefore, for the reasons of last HDZ and Most. The compensatory measures offered in this proposal for tax reform actually, unfortunately, at least in this first reading, do not exist. Compensation measures certainly cannot be the fact that real estate tax goes to 100%, so the amount of local self-government unit. Therefore, it is also too small a tax and that tax cannot be sufficient compensation as sufficient compensation for the first real estate purchase relief cannot be to reduce the rate of that same tax from five to four percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4876	Thank you very much. The Honorable Greek representative will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4877	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to repeat what my colleague Mateo said. So that's really true, we've changed the system, we've introduced 100 units of local self-government into a support system for less developed areas, and one 60 of them fell out of the system because by the development index it was above those famous 75% index values. However, I want to elaborate something else here. Therefore, this measure which was to go part of compensation to local self-government units through real estate tax. As you know, the rate so far was 5%, and now it's down to 4%, which loses one fifth of the total income that was about eight hundred, nine hundred million at the state local level. Practically, exactly what you're losing at the rate of a five-to-four percent reduction, doesn't get anything local self-government because that income is getting smaller as a whole. There's a problem. So the only thing local self-government can get through that compensation is possibly this removal of the first purchased property. I'm afraid that's over. I say, unfortunately, because of all those young families who were solving their housing issues for the first time in their lives and who were then freed from it, and now there will be no more. And that is ultimately now some additional income to local self-government units estimated at hundreds of millions of kunas. When you divide that into 555 units of local self-government, then you might think what compensation that will be. So, small and nothing. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4878	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnovic. Comrade Glasnović, you've reached out.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4879	Mr. Vice President, I have listened carefully to Mr. Greek's exposure here. I'd just say, I don't know, he compares some apples and oranges to me. It mentions some countries where 80% of taxes are paid from smaller companies, medium, larger, private companies, the majority of healthy economies in other European Union countries, etc. I repeat, if the whole other system is dysfunctional. You have tens of thousands of companies in Croatia that have no employees. Some are deleted from this court register, just for example, I'm going to give you some examples, and how much do they owe in taxes, and what do we do on these issues? We have one company from Bjelovar deleted as a business subject 41 million kuna, such an oil company 741 million kuna, 201 million kuna, so on and so forth. And we're losing millions, hundreds of millions of kunas through an inefficient dysfunctional system. We have two problems in Croatia, one is morally ethical and we have not yet solved this mental set of hiducines at all levels, and the other is management. The state is management. If we can't manage effectively with our country from tactical level to the highest peak in strength is hiducia and that means that we don't have schools, kindergartens, etc. And when morality fails, the law goes into effect and we have to solve it first, but this is all done by the party because it totally annulled not only the moral-ethical code, but it destroyed private property. This is why we have today as we have the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4880	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4881	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, esteemed colleague, I'm even in a good part of your debate agreeing. So in Croatia at this time of 144 or there were two out of 144 thousand legal entities registered 74 thousand without you and one employee and that's something that really creates a mess in the whole system and you don't know who these people work for, how they operate, what the purpose of such a company is. And not to mention the data that Minister Maric certainly has in his portfolio, which is that one large number of these companies are in charge of huge money I don't know by what and in what way. That they did not repay those debts, that one significant part of the total outstanding debt, or rather a total debt of 40 and a few billion kuna, refers precisely to companies without going to one employee. It's definitely a mess that needs to continue to solve phase by stage, degree by stage. We did something in that part, solved through the bankruptcy, the liquidation of these companies. But that process should continue. And one more thing. You can't ignore the fact here's what I said that in one of the most liberal economies you have progressive income taxation. What is not good or what is incomparable is that their rates are at a significantly higher annual income level than they are Croatian. But this is only because Croatia is a developing country and is still far from the criteria and values that are mentioned as the income of American citizens. And one more thing. We don't have to insist so much on simplifying the system or income tax or VAT. In the European Union, look at this table, except that there are at least two steps between and that highest VAT rate even in some countries there are so-called. Super-restricted, super-reduced rate. So there are 4 rates of VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4882	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4883	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I'll try to touch the three things you've been talking about. First, it's a tax relief for banks. You have very correctly noticed that in the case of VAT it is a compensation of the state budget for what will be given to banks through tax relief. However, as a lawyer, I will point out that this is a matter of discrimination because one taxpayer is able to simply write off some of their claims and use it as a tax relief, while other taxpayers, or entrepreneurs, do not make it possible. It's about one arbitration, discriminatory, and thus a counter-constitutional measure. Furthermore, real estate tax, i.e. first real estate relief. We all know that there are three basics of policy towards young people, or demographic policy. One is education. The second is employment. It's the third apartment. This government in this same format has stopped tax reform, has attacked education. After that, she stopped co-financing of employment in June, and today we see young people making it impossible for them to reach the first real estate by abolishing tax relief. And the last thing I'm going to talk about, and that's where I have to correct you a little bit when you're talking about the American system, you're partly right, but not completely. It's true, the U.S. tax system has a lot of rates. And do you know what the highest rate of that tax system was, we're talking income tax? Over 90% of the time... and the golden age of American politics. However, there was another time when these tax rates were reduced, when they had only two tax rates of which the highest started at $30,000 or around €210,000. And do you know what time it is? The age of Ronald Reagan, father of neoliberal politics. This income tax measure is the same as that introduced by Ronald Reagan. This is a pure neoliberal tax measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4884	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4885	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow coat of arms, so that's what I said in the debate. So that's the difference between social democracy and neoliberalism. So we insist on some solidarity, on the progressiveness of taxation, and simply this other side, more representing the interests of large capital, is going towards simplifying the system and in a way preferring capital to citizens. And that's right, I think I can accept it. This is the case in other countries, and there are not too many objections. What we expect the citizens to recognize is that they will recognize what measures the previous Social Democratic or the Social Democratic Government has taken, the Social Democratic Government is too difficult, and what measures this right, conservative, national government is taking, right? Otherwise, I hope in some other measurement of strength next time I treat it differently, here. But it is our duty to warn these differences here in Parliament. To see exactly where that important difference in approach is. So we've been raising the middle layer, like I said, and we've actually tried to achieve the effect that every kuna additional income by system of elasticity demand ends in consumption. And here's the reverse effect, in my opinion. If 32 thousand only the most paid people get a serious salary increase, then trust me, a large portion of the extra income will go into savings, not spending. I'm not saying that saving is not useful, because it will indirectly benefit some others who invest but primarily here we want to achieve the effect of consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4886	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4887	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Greeks, therefore, we agree and this is highlighted in the debate and you stressed that this package of laws or tax reform is going in two directions. One is an increase in investment and the other is an increase in consumption. And that is the intention, probably both of the Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But if that's really going to be the case, you've put out some legitimate grudges here. I want to highlight two things. First, when we talk about investment, surely this kind of tax reform will not bring the result itself, but should be followed by a series or a package of laws. We see that there is also the Public Procurement Act, which in any case we have a lot of entrepreneurs who may pay more money on a racket than they pay taxes. Those things must be some things to solve. Taking off tax relief on reinvested profits is not a good message and it will certainly not increase investment in the Republic of Croatia. And as for consumption, it rightly found that the middle class or most citizens would not feel this tax reform. Especially those who are private sector, who are paid at a net amount. So it could happen that even though their gross amount is in their mouths that they do not have an increase in wages in the net. And finally I just wanted to mention to you, you said that, I would like to point out, so 100 units of local self-government in Slavonia has been included in the assisted areas given significant assistance. Some have grown two, three or four times. Only in my county six units. Even the county profited in that sense. These are measures that can make the Republic of Croatia more competitive. And that is, of course, the difference between the social democratic government and the neoliberal government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4888	Thank you. The esteemed Mr. Greek will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4889	Thank you. So that's it. Fighting for poorer citizens, fighting for pensioners whose pension is 40% and less than the average salary and struggle for the least developed parts of Croatia. So, fight for those who are weaker. This is our policy and we will continue to insist on it. And we're not going to stand down from that. The fact that some in that and such politics might find themselves hurt because they may have lost some rights in the meantime that can no longer compete with the rights, the new rights of these most vulnerable, that's another thing, you know. Someone always loses a little somewhere so someone can get one. But what's important is our principle is to get the one who really deserves it. And it should be in every reform here and here. And two more words about this tax cuts on reinvested profits. You see, taught by my own experience, I have to tell you very openly, therefore, taught by our government's own experience where we went to a reduction in health contributions, you remember where each company was then given some small amount of foundation and relief that didn't generally go into investment. We turned the story and said, "Let's help those who want to invest, those who draw, who have the potential for something happening in the overall economy." The same thing is now, or rather very similar. By reducing the profit tax by two percentage points in principle, we're not going to take these smaller companies these to three million kunas now, but let's take these strong potent companies. So by cutting taxes by two percent on profit, you'll do nothing. You will develop support and actually what we had in support of those who invest, who have projects that draw, you have now crushed it and will lose it in the system, and those who want to invest will no longer have the essential support of the state. And that's it. So I'm telling you this based on my own experience. So you don't grind the support but concentrate it on the strongest and the best. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4890	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4891	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your debate, you mentioned a reduction in profit tax and, of course, that any redundancy of the economy should go to encourage new investments and create new jobs. First of all, to preserve existing jobs, but also to create new jobs. And now you've just responded to the replica saying that you suspect that these reductions from 20 percent to 18 percent will encourage entrepreneurs to invest. And I'm interested in what your experiences are about it because we're opinions from the HSS that it's not good and I personally think it's not good because if we want to attract investment then we have to be more competitive than the environment. In Serbia, 10 per cent of Ireland has reduced to 6.5 per cent of the profit tax, and it is certainly not an exclusive element that will boost investment. We think that for companies that reinvested profits in new investments should have been left as a tax relief. And now my question and the dilemma of all citizens – why did entrepreneurs use it very little? What are your experiences? You were also a minister in the government, which is what you did to bring that measure closer to the entrepreneurs and why they only used 0.8 percent. It is unclear for us and we think that then a more quality model must be encouraged by entrepreneurs to invest, especially those less developed areas, areas with more difficult management conditions, Slavonia and Baranja, Podravina, Liku, Dalmatia Zagora and other destinations. We also think that, in this part of the tax relief for young people, the elimination of taxes or payment of first real estate taxes is not good, that it will detimise young people and encourage them to go further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4892	Thank you. The esteemed Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4893	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So we agree on this principle. But I'm about to say what's my argument about it or ours, but I'm going to add something else. So that's what I said in the replica yesterday, so something over 1% of entrepreneurs isn't a small number believe me. So the total number of large companies is investment potential, so the value of investment is important, not the number. So 1% of companies in Croatia are big companies or slightly more than that that have the largest capital, which have the biggest turnovers, which have the biggest profits and the biggest profits, and it's small and medium 98%, 98.5%. It is therefore important how much they are worth and how much power they have and how much they can actually achieve large investment projects and achieve the returns that will be seen in the GDP of the Republic of Croatia and finally and in the tax system, or in the state budget. It's a key message. Here, I was talking about that structure yesterday, and I mentioned it a little while ago. You in the company structure have 75 thousand or 51% who do not have any employees. So what's the percentage here relevant? Not at all. So the higher value is in these 1.5% that they invested using the Reinvested Profit Act compared to these 51% that don't actually exist because they don't have any employees and contribute to society almost nothing. That's what I'm talking about and we have to figure it out. It's statistics, it's numbers, it's arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4894	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4895	Dear colleague, you mentioned that the Law on the financing of local self-government units should be adopted as soon as possible to arrange the way in which they will plan their next budgets and I agree with you. I'm calling on the Ministry to get that bill on the bench as soon as possible. You know it's already half a month now and local self-government units need to start planning their budgets. And I asked a specific question two days ago to a minister I didn't get an answer to. So he says let all units of local self-government plan their budgets based on revenues in 2016. Once again, what about those units of local self-government that ran out of 50% in 2016? So it's specifically mountain-mounted areas that have fallen into this level that have not received any compensatory measures. So I beg once again for that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4896	Thank you. Here, you will be answered by the esteemed representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4897	Yes, you see, what was mentioned in the public or by the minister was the possibility that at the monthly level the incomes of local self-government units should be monitored and compensated directly from the state budget monthly. I don't quite understand how it's gonna end up. We'll see. We need to see that, and then you can comment more specifically. It's gonna be really hard. At the very least, the question is what is the reference value. If the reference value is 2016, the question is asked, and where are the corrective factors? Here, I'm helping. You see, I've been trying all along to help with arguments and suggestions to make things better. The fact that some in the economic growth and take-off phase are now taking place in some municipalities and that there are more people who will work and pay income taxes next year. Is it fair that if a company with 200 employees is opened in a municipality of Međimurje, that the reference year is 2016, and not one new situation in which at least 200 people pay income tax additionally, which for a small municipality can be crucial for its further development? I ask you to respect this and to create some kind of corrective factor that will increase these compensations on the basis of economic growth or development or concrete situations on the ground. Of course, I would like that law, the whole law that will then regulate these areas of special state care including the position of mountain and mountainous areas to be whole and that it will be as soon as possible in a public debate to see what it will be since 1.1.2018. I've been asking a lot of questions today. I would hate for this reform to completely end regional policy in Croatia. There have been some minor procedures here at the time of our government, so we know how much we've been struggling to explain to the public our intentions and righteousness or the solidarity of that system, and now we're completely eliminating it. That's the problem. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4898	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4899	Thank you very much. Dear Greek, you have said a broad spectrum of your views with something you have agreed with, you have not agreed with something, but the fact about undeveloped areas is that since the origin of the Republic of Croatia, these areas have only been exploited, their resources, potentials and indeed all governments, and yours has exclusively centralized all this. Indeed, if these tax reforms remain this way, no other laws and other ministries have been included and adapted, indeed, those areas will remain what the former governments have made "a burned country". The fact that there are no more young people in these areas, we have no development, is mainly Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar, and we will not talk about Slavonia and we will not talk about the successes of your government at all. The only thing we see daily is renewable sources, renewable energy sources, mostly wind power plants, but unfortunately, citizens will have to pay again. But this government must find a solution to compensate for the fact that citizens are not being costing electricity as well as what your government has brought. Yes, you said, it's unfortunate that some managers have 70,000 kunas, 80,000 kunas, even some who were appointed as party presidents, their godfathers, and if so the same party president would have another godfather in the same party. And then later court costs, millions of kunas. They're facts, and that's the problem with this society. And when you mention the left, the right, whatever left, which right. Both of them, after the Homeland War, sat down at the bottom of this society. And the bankers and the teleopers, whatever you've touched in the last 25 years, have been torn apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4900	Thank you. The esteemed Greek representative will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4901	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, with this thesis, your last sentence, I can't agree. Twice, the SDP participated in the Croatian government and twice raised the country from ashes, economic ash. We know what Racan's government did. Since that severe crisis in the late 1990s, the country has led to a growth of five, six percent thanks to major infrastructure investment projects, the Dalmatian highway, which you and I drive home every week and vice versa. Therefore, it was a time of great projects and a great take-off that was then continued at the time of the HDZ's next government. That's the first thing. The second thing, we as the Government found the country in a minus cumulative of about ten percent, we increased that minute in the first two years to minus twelve percent but therefore in the 14th and 15th years we turned the situation in the state, led to this growth that still enjoys the economy of Croatia, along with entrepreneurs, all employees, citizens and so on, but we did the government that made that turn. Unfortunately, this government hasn't worked at all in the last eight months, so it can't be attributed to anything good for either the economy or the state. ... We expect this government of course to be much more serious, please, much more serious, these are facts. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You cannot convince Croatian citizens that these are facts. That the last government in eight months has done nothing for Croatia. 87% was a mistrust to that government! In the history of the Croatian state, this was not a single government with such a level of mistrust. So let's not talk about it any further! Come on, let's turn over a new page, I expect this government to be better, more compact, more complex. There's a problem, we see right now, you guys just don't know which side to sit on. left or right and that's the problem. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] But I hope it still works.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4902	Thank you, fellow Greek. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Mark Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, dear fellow Greek, I will, of course, agree with you that these changes in income tax actually go hand in hand to those who earn the most and that we are in fact violating one principle, one economic principle of paying taxes according to the economic power and it is unacceptable that we are directing our tax system according to the uniform rate of income tax. This is not the whole way to simplify the tax system because we think that taxes, in fact, on income, are the ones that earn the most that and have to pay at rates higher than 40%. So I'm talking about salaries above 20, twenty-five thousand kuna. I can accept that, of course, these are differences in the economic worlds, but I cannot understand that today this is being potential here in today's situation in the Republic of Croatia. They can understand certain political parties that have this economic worldview, but they cannot understand those others who advocate and are fighting allegedly large capital and banking lobby. Another thing I'd like to point out, I'm glad you've opened this issue of regional development and the issue of generally regional policy. So in northern Croatia, we have extremely good economic indicators. Yesterday, I mentioned it in an individual debate, but local units' budgets have extremely low original incomes. So we are under national average and I hope that these changes in the financing of local self-government or the change of index, to the indices of development, will help to make some progress, and in fact our citizens who suffer the most. Our citizens pay higher prices for kindergartens, have weaker municipal infrastructure, and I don't think they deserve it, and I believe that through these changes in the Finance Act, it will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4904	Thank you. The honourable representative Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4905	Yes, thank you very much. I've already expressed key concerns about this, so I won't repeat myself, but I don't think that these still tiny measures that are incorporated into these legislative changes certainly don't contribute to the development of these areas. And as my colleague Bulj said earlier: we wouldn't want those spaces further demographically eroding to say so, that people are moving out, that they're running away, that they don't have anything to do there, etc. And indeed, it will be very interesting what this new Law on the financing of units of local self-government will look like and will recognise the position of the least developed units of local self-government. We have not specifically mentioned here so far, but even in this business section there are certain amendments to the law, where only for the first category of assisted areas, so the least developed, is left with a 50% tax reduction. And the relief for the second category is lifted. So they're a little better poor. So it's not a good message in that segment either, I say, so it will be very important to wait for this new Funding Act and see how all these problems will be solved. And it really takes time. So, in these few days before planning and adopting local budgets, so serious law cannot even be passed and I agree here that the government must take one good time, one good time to think it through, to make sure that this note of regional policy and the development of these areas is not lost for all the reasons objective that exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4906	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4907	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Greek, I'm glad to hear you, but you've been in power for a while, too, so you've mentioned now between 8 and 13 thousand kunas as a middle-class group of people you've been developing. Right? Eight to 13 grand, that would be a middle layer of people somewhere. However, it is very, very few people. We didn't develop people from 3,000 to 8,000 how to help them, how to feed a thousand and 200 pensioners. Another thing, taxes. It's easy to be an opposition then it's comfortable. When you were alone in power, why in this Croatian state has 25 years been destroyed by agriculture? There we could be competitive Europe, block imports of some to the Croatian state, develop Slavonia, and today we have popular cuisine in Slavonia, embarrassingly. It's a shame what Bulj says is pathetic. Of course it's pathetic and it's been poor before. We haven't done what we should have done all these 25 years. We made the richest part of Croatia poor. It's your fault, anyway, and the other side that ran this country. We can't solve business. Business is one farm. We're able to do this with a little investment. We're building a Peljek Bridge. We've already thrown 200 million of them. In Slavonia, hundreds of missing highways to Sava, we don't have a bridge. We've got a road to Draga, we've got no bridge, we've got no bridge, it's not going anywhere, and hundreds of millions have been thrown. And if we'd earned it, then threw it away, I'd have said OK, we threw it away. And we borrowed, so we threw and paid in the end, and now we come normally into trouble and it's very difficult to fill the budget from the poor and make everything real right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4908	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4909	... the position of agriculture, it must be the most vulnerable sector for decades, not during our government or the previous HDZ. [[speaker not enabled]] Therefore, agriculture is something that has always been at the limit of profitability and the only way to support agriculture is better said that agriculture survives is support, support and financial support. We, as you probably know from 2013, are members of the European Union and in this European Union, the strongest policy is agricultural policy, the strongest. So, 40 and I don't know how many percent of the budget of the entire European Union covers agricultural policy and we are part of this policy and we are now enjoying support for farmers within the borders where this is permitted under the Law on Competition or the rules of competition and below or above that we cannot go. But now it is important to do the whole other job, which is to invest in new technologies, to advise the advisory services of farmers, which and which cultures in Croatia can rentably grow, and from which they must be removed because it leads them to growth. There is also a deformation, we are aware of how the support was shared, to whom the support was shared – by political ties, by nepotism, by this, by that – even some politicians raised vineyards, olive groves with thousands and thousands of seedlings with state support, etc. I won't talk about names now, but you know it all well. Is it? Therefore, there is one policy, but there is also a mess and irregularity in implementing that policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4910	Thank you. Now, after two clubs and I played the replicas, there is also the opportunity for the reply to be answered by the distinguished Minister Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4911	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, I would ask only a brief preliminary explanation given the objective circumstances I have to travel to Vukovar for a session of the government, so I won't be able to finally publish at the end of this first reading. I'm going to take the opportunity to turn around after these clubs, or debates within the club for five minutes, and not just to discuss what we've been discussing today, but this one for the past two days. I think you've noticed my fellow assistants, the directors of the IRS, along with my deputies and assistants, and I have personally stayed most of the time completely, and I think we're going in now at 21 hours of this debate, we're recording, we're monitoring all the comments and everything. So you can expect all of this to finally be obvious. I would refer here to a few things that have been crystallized as very important during these three days or very often mentioned, even some MPs have repeatedly repeated on several occasions, and this is among other things a question of compensatory measures or whatever they call them related to local and regional (regional) government units. So let me announce something in advance this way, not only of the Minister of Finance's promise, but of what we will immediately tell you and in what way we will be streamlining in the next draft of the law, which will be the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2017. It is therefore not relevant, in Article 1(1), that the article, but that paragraph 1 is relevant to the units of local and regional self-government, or regional self-government, will be paid out of the budget in the year 2017 to the difference between income income from income tax and income from income tax which will take place in 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 3(3) of the aid to be paid under this Article from the division of the Ministry of Finance is not intended and shall not be considered to be liquid aid from the State budget in accordance with the rules laid down by the criteria for determining the salaries and compensation of mayors, mayors and municipal chiefs and their deputies, as well as the salaries of officials and temporary staff in the administrative departments and services of units of local and regional, or regional self-government. Article 4 In 2017, the Ministry of Finance will propose a new model of funding for units of local and regional, or regional self-government by 30 June 2017 at the latest. As far as your question is concerned, it's a mountain-mounted question. You see my opening address, as well as now this, is not my intention in my address to you as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, and also to the Croatian public, to use the debate for some past accounts and point to some of the actions that have been done and then the consequences that we are facing today. And I just started saying, and I'm going to say at this point, the changes that have been made in the tax system are not critical and I don't put any kind of crime into being done for this or that reason, but they are what they are. Therefore, these changes seek to simplify and make the entire tax system more transparent and have a quality tax system that will serve economic growth and society as a whole. As far as the mountains are concerned, then, we are fully familiar with the problem. Unfortunately, not unfortunately, but in fact, it is not the fault of this or the previous government. Circumstances led to the fact that they practically lost 102 million kuna this year. We will do something in the context of the budget rebalancing that will be presented today at the Government, a small part of it will compensate but surely ensure that during 2017 this segment, of course our regions, or cities and counties that are in mountainous and mountainous areas also have a quality financial basis. I'm going to touch other topics, and that's about income tax. So I repeat once again, the Income Tax Act does not define who has a salary or a pension. It defines how much of the gross amount is tightened in terms of taxes and especially the cut. Yesterday, among other things, the representative of Hrelj asked me to do so and I will satisfy his request, because it is not only a matter of his application, it is important for the general Croatian public, therefore, for pensioners and citizens, taxpayers in the assisted areas of the first category are worth the same rules as for all but there is one additional, note, therefore the tax liability is reduced by 50%. Defacto means they don't change anything! So, the pensioners are very clear, the public message, so there's no lowering pensions! However, those who naturally enter the shears of these higher rates will feel, of course, an additional discharge and, indirectly, an increase in their pensions. I arrive another 30 seconds on speed, hospitality, hospitality is therefore also a topic that we hear a lot for three days also within the Assembly Committee on Tourism. We had an argument I'd say again. As for hospitality, so I repeat once again, this is not about punishing any sectors or catering. Because we also didn't talk about the element of that sector when the VAT rate was coming down from 23 to 10%... at that point. So here we are talking about an element that we believe that within the overall tax reform will not mean and does not necessarily mean a negative reaction to this sector because again, I repeat, on the side of the instructions in terms of tax obligations on income tax, income tax, and some of the instructions they use also in their services and products they deliver, so more on the foreign demand of the catering sector. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Jandrokovic: Ministers, time!]] Shouldn't be as damaged as it says in the debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4912	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4913	Thank you and respect, Mr. Maric. Unfortunately, we see that, and we see that these changes in the tax that HDZ is doing, and that's not the first time tax reform is done. They have been working on tax reform both SDP and HDZ, however, tax reform in its nature does not solve the cause of the problem, and the cause of the problem is the country's rabbit-freeness. And a credit crisis. And an unreal course. You don't do that at all. You don't care about that at all. People have been telling you for five years that it's problem number one, you HDZ, unfortunately, and you from SDP stick your head in the sand. As long as you stick it in, I don't know. Earth's all over the place, like it's none of anybody's business. And then I wonder -- until when? Why must you personally fail to understand this problem? Why does every MP here have to fail and find himself in a situation where he can't repay loans and there's no kuna in his pocket to realize that's the problem? Why? Until when? And three days of this tax reform being debated, there will be no use for either the budget or the citizens. That's all, I'd call, spilling from the hollow into the empty and actually turning focus from the central problem. The central problem is the central bank. Until it gets rid of what we've got? Mr. Maric, what is the average citizen, even if, say, there's no harm, let's say he stays zero, what does he get, what does the state get? You raised the VAT, none of it, it's no use, you understand? VAT rates are rising, and VAT revenues are decreasing. You kill the whole economy, people run off on buses from the country. You don't care at all, unfortunately, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4914	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4915	Thank you very much. Here, dear representative, so in one part of your replica, I think we're talking about the same thing, and that's primarily that change in the tax system and tax policy can't solve all the problems of our economy and if you want society as a whole. I think it's been crystallized over the past three days. And this morning, we hear the same thing, and of course they're calling for social policy to also move out of tax policy, which ultimately means a good part. Therefore, the tax system must be socially sensitive and recognise this component of social justice, but ultimately there are much better and more efficient ultimately and more transparent ways to obtain such effects. Everything is hiding at this point or somehow the key to a number of our problems and the solution to a number of our problems, I would say is still hiding in the economy. Because if we're talking about our pensions and we're talking about our social benefits and we're talking about some other elements, surely there's no stepping out in the economy. The elements you mention of any monetary authority, any situation with banks, etc. These are elements which are, of course, partly recognized in the tax system, but much broader than that are actually recognized in some other legal regulations. We, with these proposals for amendments with which we come and which we call a comprehensive and comprehensive tax reform, are indeed trying to reconcile a number of inequalities, inequalities and injustices if you want in the tax system and in the context of fiscal opportunities. Because you're saying that in some way I'm sticking my head in the sand, so believe me, in this particular area, I'm sure you'd never stick my head in the sand like a finance minister in the sense of putting the state budget in danger, the sustainability of public finances. So, in the context of the possibility of fiscal burden, the discharge was actually the idea that this fiscal discharge would be felt as wide as possible by a set and a circle of taxpayers and thus by entrepreneurs. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4916	Thank you. Second replica, Honorary Representative Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4917	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I want to believe that we will see these compensatory measures in the 2017 budget. However, it is a short-term measure. With this we have not solved the general problem you have heard about these days, which has been passed and the government has listened from these benches and I am sorry if you have not so far – my message is to you, and I believe that everyone here in the Assembly will agree that it is necessary to include all stakeholders, all ministers and ministers who are tanging these tax laws. If we don't do this, we're gonna miss an opportunity, and your government is gonna miss the chance to start, not to end it, but to start structural reforms. Because with these changes, you're going to do it. I made it very clear yesterday that the intentions I believe are correct, that you have a certain vision and therefore, if there is no comprehensive approach, to the strategic approach that we want in Croatia in 4, 5, 10 years, I'm afraid that these tax reforms that are positive of some, some of us might also be able to support, that we won't get the desired effect that you believe and you drew in your guidelines.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4918	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4919	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here you have heard the same thing a few minutes ago, so I have quoted the provisions of the article so that what you say as well as many other MPs because the last three days I've just heard it, I'm not going to say the phrase but the terminology, that you want to believe that I'm telling the truth, or how you say it yourself, I promise. So I made it very clear to you, therefore, what will be in the proposal for a law on the implementation of the State budget for 2017 and I also made it very clear today, and perhaps even more detailed on this in the opening address. Therefore, this is only a transitional measure and a transitional solution for 2017. Just from our contacts and conversations with the Association of Cities, I will immediately say, so not just the mayors, were people involved who are operating on certain things very high-quality and very professional, very smart people who have helped us among other things and in these simulations as well as the Association of Countys and municipalities. The conclusion is common, the good part has actually come from local self-government, the conclusion is common that it is better at this moment with what I call a colloquial 16th law of this tax reform, which is the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, that we wait for it a little bit anyway, or this draft that we have through simulations of the next few months, because here you have heard that there will be a commitment of the Ministry of Finance by 30.6. before you come with this proposal which, of course, we will debate it in order to push it all together because I think that we all agree that the existing system is simply unsustainable and we cannot possibly make it any other way and there is no need to characterise it with any different epithetes that it is neither fair nor simple nor simple or similar. but we can simply conclude that he is unsustainable. So the changes need to be made. I suggested what changes there would be. So, full tax, tax, pardon income from income tax goes to local and regional self-government units. There will be, of course, a compensatory mechanism because there are mountain-mountan areas, there are some other units of local and regional self-government that will be below certain criteria that you will say in cooperation with other resolution ministers and ministries, of course, together with the Association of Cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4920	Thank you very much. The last replica of the esteemed colleague Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4921	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, since you have announced that you will no longer be able to attend this session today, I would like to further express the dissatisfaction with your announcements which significantly reduce efficiency, the secrecy of the investigation he conducted to so call him popularly known to the public by the tax system. So, as president of the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy from 2007 to 2011, and also part of the previous mandate, I have witnessed a number of talks that we have had with representatives of the European Commission that have always voiced concern over the ineffectiveness of the disclosure of tax fraud, money laundering. And it was only through the formation of the Tax UskoK for the term of office of Minister Lalovac that an effective body was created that had practically done more work in a year than the IRS had done all the time before. I will remind you, and let the public once again hear that in this very short period, tax fraud worth billions of kunas has been exposed. Your entire tax reform, this package is worth 2 billion. So, in a year, the taxpayer USKOK exposed the frauds that occurred in the past period before it was set up, and they occurred mostly because of moles sitting in the Tax Administration, and you now want to return the taxpayers to those moles and prevent the secrecy of investigations, preventing efficiency that will certainly not echo well in the European Commission. Therefore, I invite you to think twice about it and not make a move that brings a smile back to the face of those who are taking the state budget and robbing Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4922	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4923	Thank you very much. Your Honor, the past three days have also been a lot of speeches, and I may use this response to the replica, of course, by referring to your question and comment, but among other things, I will not say rhetoric, but terminology. In 2010 a commitment came to Croatia in line with our accession negotiations, I quote in English to establish the Administrative Unit, which will be among other things in charge of calculation, calculation, monitoring and responsibility for the payment of the so-called the European Union's own resources. So that's our concession that goes into the European Union's budget. I was within the Ministry of Finance, the State Secretary at the time, the Minister of Finance suggested that within the Ministry of Finance, a department form a department within the administration, where we teamed up young colleagues, capable, very nimble and ultimately very enthusiastic, with the knowledge of good English language and we founded that department. The reactions were domestic public, I think from the perspective of the state administration, that it was a very bad decision, that we would therefore stop the negotiations. We have never received a single objection to the work of this department until today because many have read, as well as the entire state administration at the time of the pre-accession negotiations, that administrative unions, necessarily means some agency that we have to set up, that we have to put into some super-luxury space, name a director, name a secretary, get some kind of official car and not pick up any more. I want to tell you, the same thing about the tax leap, or the independent services of the taxpayer to detect tax transport, is its independence, a key link to the other bodies of the Ministry of Finance and other law enforcement bodies, is their key, I repeat, independence, and full functionality. It is less important in the organisational structure, so it is my responsibility as Minister of Finance to set up an organisational system as I believe it will be most effective but the results are ultimately those who judge any establishment unit both the Ministry of Finance and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4924	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. The next is the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives and distinguished counterpart Kresimir Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4925	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, I hope you don't leave right away. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, let me speak in a few sentences on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. On the eve of the past elections, much has been said about decentralisation. This tax reform is further centralization of the state. Unfortunately, it is a blow to the poorest parts of the state, a blow to the poorest municipalities, and these compensatory measures the minister spoke of were played on the willow. These compensatory measures are largely inconclusive, the next year it is electoral as far as local levels are concerned and it will be very difficult, or impossible to introduce any compensatory measures and you will destroy at least 50% of the municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Minister, you are an extremely capable, dear, kind man. But you're not a politician, you're an accountant. That's a fact. The accountant cannot run politics and cannot run a political strategy as the state will look in five years. That's what political parties have to do. This, or Croatia is not a company! Croatia is not something that can be worth it! Croatia is a country that must watch what it will look like for the next 20 years for the next 30 years! With reforms like this, you're destroying the country to the ground! Your only goal is and we know very well – to determine, i.e. balance the revenue side of the budget for 2017 in order to appease the creditors who knock on our door! You will do so at the expense of local communities, at the expense of local budgets, at the expense of municipalities, cities, especially those who were killed in the war and those who were underdeveloped, and you cannot make up for it! You will stop a complete investment cycle that goes from municipalities and cities, you will run an additional 100, 200 or 300 thousand young people from the Republic of Croatia who leave daily and you will have closed in 2017, and in 2018 you will have a system collapse! The collapse of the system in terms of collapse of structures, in terms of fund collapse, the young will go away, there will no longer be anyone to pay these taxes you're talking about, there will be no more pensions, there will be no pay, there will be nothing, and there will be strangers and we will become a slow minority in our country! Unfortunately, the Croatian Peasant Party will not support it, I call on the CNS that called us part of the government, and now you are proving to be part of the government because you said you would be restrained, to be against this! I call on colleagues from the Most, colleagues from HDZ, especially the mayors and mayors, to be against this, to find different measures, and Minister Maric to start dealing with politics, not accounting! And the policy is that you go into international circles, amongst our believers, and make sure there's a way to sort of reprogramme our debts to survive next year. Thank you very much. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4926	We have four replicas. The first replica is a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4927	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Beljak did not need to invite me specifically, so I join your request not to support tax reform. Of course, what I answered on the line, you said well, the finance minister must also be a politician because he solves some burning issues except that he's just worried about filling a bank full of pig state budgets, he has to deal with issues. One question the minister also stressed as very important. He'll be at his desk soon. It's a question of salary growth in that whole middle layer. So we're talking about teachers, doctors, soldiers, police of 6% of ministers while the secretary of state signed with them an agreement on the freezing of those rights. It's worth two billion kunas somewhere. Next thing you know, he's got to deal with, which is raising minimum wages. It's necessary for people to exist at all without what you're saying is that there's just no one left to work in this country anymore. Public debt, we heard yesterday from the Minister of Transport announcing the refinancing of HAC's loan. On what terms and when it will come again. We can refinance. The model of privatisation of Croatian highways was heavily attacked. But by refinancing, we're just postponing this debt. in some other time that we don't know whether it will be better and whether these tax reforms will lead to this goal, to increase consumption. Because what a fellow Greek warned about when he spoke. You're talking now. So, that middle layer of people when we talk about these salaries of not knowing from 5,000 to 15000 they need to raise wages to increase consumption, in order to stimulate new production or growth of industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4928	Replication response, colleague Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4929	Thank you very much, dear colleague. When consumption rises, there are two component benefits. The first is the state budget, which is clear because of the need to pay the debts that come on the charge, while others are large trade chains. So I use the opportunity to ask the minister how much money he has now, and how much money he has in his previous job and whether there are any compensatory measures by the former bosses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4930	Second replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4931	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Beljak, I have listened carefully to your brief exposure that lasted about as long as you have spent these two days during this debate in this assembly. So you're on the sidelines and we're looking at your exposure, because if you'd spent a little more time then you'd have heard the good ones and the bad ones of this reform as she tried to show the opposition. I'm not saying that this is the best possible reform in the world, but you, apart from a few general phrases, have not given a single piece of information that would make it a bad reform except that in one of your own very special style you called a very successful minister to an ordinary accountant. It is not only that accounting officer, especially if this job is done in quality and professional terms, as this administration at the Ministry of Finance is doing very, very well. But in this country, there's a lot of politicians of general practice and ministers of general practice who would talk about everything, and very little things have a clue, you know. So I ask you that when you have the right as president of the Croatian Peasants' Party to talk about it, but if this reform and these taxes were given to someone, I would say broad arms, if this tax reform was to encourage the development of aid, then it's agriculture. If it is known that the HSS in its programme is most advocated by farmers, so I would say the rural space of Croatia. So I would especially single out Slavonia, then only in that sense did you have to lower that tone a little bit and commend at least in that part if you didn't find any more of this tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4932	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4933	Thank you, dear fellow Bacic. I didn't insult anyone. If someone's an accountant then that doesn't mean they have to be an instant politician, I don't know how you said it. To be a politician, you have to have some kind of basic education. There are few of us here who have completed the Faculty of Political Sciences and it is no shame. But people who don't have political education can't run politics, run a state strategy. Croatia needs strategic development from elections to elections is changing taxes, tax reforms are changing, certain things are changing. We're an unsettled society. All parties need to reach a consensus on certain things and then stick to it. What kind of message is that to investors? What you're saying about helping farmers I won't speak for the farmers because unfortunately because of your poor policies in Croatia are almost gone. The rest are tycoons, the rest are the ones that have thousands of acres of land. The little one you are Mr. Bacic with your policies and policies that have been implemented over the past 25 years almost completely destroyed. One of the fundamental sovereigntys of each country is that it can feed itself. At this point, God gives no great disaster, God forbid the EU falls apart, God forbid the markets fall apart. Croatia is, thanks to you, Mr. Bačiću, a state that is unable to feed itself. And don't just talk about guarding farmers because you've destroyed them almost to the root.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4934	All right, let's explain to everyone sitting here, we're politicians. I don't think there's any doubt about what colleges you've completed. The only difference is that there are successful and less successful politicians, and since Mr. Maric is probably a successful politician, some others are not. Dear colleague Ivan Vrdoljak, third replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4935	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Wouldn't it be a criterion to evaluate a successful politician, but we're not going to talk about it. So, a colleague of Whitey's. I've finished electrical engineering. I'm not political science. But here's something I learned a little bit along the way while I was in politics, let's say it's one of the key moments when the opposition and the position and the vote in the government are defined. Here's how some history taught me or, say, a budget vote. I'm looking at it to then define as, like, what part does it belong to? I will be an opposition that every time I say everything they do by ruling, I will not do it, nor will the Croatian People's Party do it. There's a series of good measures here. There are two huge questionnaires? It's a tax jump position and NPLs from a bank that we'll get answers to. And there are a few strategic adjustments. So why would I at first read define my status as an opposition to say absolutely against everything. No, it wasn't us. There is a measure that I can support, and I will remind you and you will correct me. You have learned more about political systems than I have, whether defining the position and opposition is voting on the government and on the budget or on a single law that comes into the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4936	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4937	Well, there's no special definition, you know. You agree with the ruling majority on some of your concessions and then support them with a certain law. You know how you did, Mr. Wreath. See, that's not what HSS does. It won't work. We'll be the opposition, and you'll be so-called. An opposition that will negotiate certain matters behind the scenes and support the majority if it is not by the Most or elsewhere. Thank you very much. We all know that very well together.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4938	Good position information! The fourth replica is the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4939	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'm saying I listened to Mr. Whiteman from HSS, and what to say is that I agree with him, and what to say than that man told the truth is not a contradiction. The only people who will contradict him are people who have turned their backs with their tax reforms, and we know ladies and gentlemen how much HDZ has worked so far. What are the results of these tax reforms besides continuing the suffering of our people? What have you done with your tax reforms? You first introduced a VAT which I think is a wrong tax, and then you lifted that VAT rate, and where did you bring us? The rate does not decrease, you promised before the election to cut VAT. You lied here, you lied, ladies and gentlemen. Too high VAT is the problem. And you, instead of reducing the overall VAT rate, you raise the caterers and lower them to that high VAT rate and claim that the measures will help the citizens. So which citizens will they help? I've never met a citizen on the street who stopped me and said, Mr. Pernar thank Mr. Maric, thank the HDZ gentlemen for their tax reform for helping me. Who does this reform work for? Who are you gentlemen from HDZ for? For you? What's the point of a law that works for itself? What? Who benefits from that? You're talking about what you'd say, taking care of the finances, so you've ruined the finances, ladies and gentlemen. Look at your deficit. You don't even have the current expenses to cover, let alone pay back your previous debts. You pay back your debt by taking on a new loan, Mr. Maric, and common sense tells you that if an individual leads his personal finances in a way that they can reach The obligation to settle the new debt instead of returning them to the long run leads to ruin, gentlemen. [[Invader: Gordan Jandroković: Time.]] Debt on debt, interest on interest and asset sale. [[Invader: Gordan Jandroković: Time.]] It's politics, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4940	Comrade Pernar, time's up. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4941	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pernar. I see that when he says that many laugh. But I don't think it's gonna be funny for you soon because Mr. Pernar may be speaking in a way that wasn't usual until now in this House, there may not be enough experience, but I assure you that you won't laugh so fast when certain things and certain problems come to the agenda. Mr. Pernar spoke of geostrategic matters concerning this state, no one wanted to listen. Russia gave up the Treaty of Rome yesterday, stopped recognising the International Court in The Hague, there is much trouble, and Croatia listens obediently to certain world medias and nobody talks about it except Mr. Pernar. And when he says you're all laughing at him. I don't think that's correct, it's a young man who is the future of Croatian politics, and many of you will certainly freeze a smile, but in the next election. Thank you, Mr. Pernar, and keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4942	Dear Minister Maric answered the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4943	Here's what I'm doing. I'm using my right to continue to address my point of view. I'm not gonna be able to finish it. Thank you very much for your comments and replicas, don't get me wrong right now, but here we are still going to be on today's diaries, you gave a little more adrenaline to this debate, so what I was afraid at first of not noticing that we were still discussing a package of tax reform, I think the Croatian public will. I've continued with these reflections of mine and our reflections for the past three days in terms of debate. The topic of sales tax on real estate and first purchase relief. Some of you said, the minister is happy with it, not the minister happy I'll tell you right away. The Minister is not happy with this and with such a proposal but again I repeat the reasons why we went with this proposal, first of all, for the reason that the measure is proposed for tax, equal tax treatment of real estate. Since 1.1.2015, you have a situation where new real estate is taxable and exclusively with VAT, so they don't even enter the real estate tax system, and neither can this relief be used. It can only be used for use. That's why I said, as part of a less compensatory measure, this proposed measure is going to reduce the overall rate from 5 to 4. I believe that at a very soon time it will be able to reduce it to an additional three or two percent, and at the same time what I announced that fellow Minister Kuščević, within the framework of his portfolio, will, of course, work together with the Suport of the entire government and on the model of subsidisation of interest on loans that will be used precisely for these purposes for the first purchase of real estate for our families or singles. I got a question just before, so it's unrelated to their status, of course we're talking about first real estate. As far as real estate tax is concerned there were also a lot of comments, of course because many of you come from local and regional self-government units in the end we all come from these units, there were a lot of comments. Some of them can immediately say that we will, of course, consider and I am sure and do something in terms of acceptance on one hand. So, with these releases, I have to say very clearly, so unlike the practices of municipal compensation which through... uncontrollable exemptions led to an inefficient collection of municipal fees in the tax is clearly defined and will be as such clearly defined. Therefore, the public activities of the non-profit sector have the lowest tax ratios. Each leased real estate allows the transfer of liabilities to the tenant. A respected colleague yesterday mentioned regarding the already-accommodated exemption from the payment of the municipal fee in view of the investments. We'll find a solution so that we can legally stop this institute, because these are still commitments that have been made for previous reasons. In addition, as regards taxation of unbuilt land which clearly defines land which is not covered by the zone or in which it is not invested by the local self-government unit and is neither equipped nor subject to taxation in terms of, or scissors of, this property tax. As far as the records are concerned, I think that there, I think, I suppose that we will agree or most of us agree, again I repeat the leaders of the local self-government who did this in previous years have seen not only from the perspective of the local self-government that they did in previous years, but not from the perspective of the justice of social and fiscal but from the finality of their budget. We will in these records, i.e. in the up-to-date records of course come out of the local self-government and from the perspective of the tax administration but also of course the state geodetic administration, the complete OIB system will be activated as well as the traffic records and data completely from the legalization that has been carried out. And we also have, of course, a theme of banks and a write-down of claims, or debts. I think on that topic is, let's say one of the items why I personally pleased that we succeeded regardless of the short term complete package of tax reform put through two readings. Personally, I don't remember, I have a lot of experience in the state administration, I don't remember the last time I defended myself by some law in two readings. So I am also satisfied from this perspective because it will allow us, among other things, not only nomotechnically but certain things, of course and essentially concretely in this area and the criteria of the treatment itself write down, or the complete problem, we do a little better. There were very many specific comments, suggestions that could be made in one way or another. Dear colleague and representative Hrg, I remember at the beginning of his opening address, he recognized well among other things, and let's say the element of children's diapers. I must tell you that children's diapers, e-books according to EU directives are not recognized, or impossible on them, we must not lower the VAT rate. So it's not our decision that these are ultimately the same directive. And I'll still have a chance to turn around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4944	Thank you. Well, there's going to be an opportunity, given that it has five replicas. First up, he's a respected colleague, Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4945	Here's one more thing, Minister Maric, about real estate tax. It's inconclusive, you can't introduce it. It's a simple tax that's going to add to the capacity of local administrations, who's going to do it, who's going to cut, who's going to, so I've been doing this job for seven years, I know it firsthand. So you have a problem with the payment of communal fees, you have a problem with how to cut the communal fee to be fair and fair. You have, like, I don't know, 12,000 solutions that you have to send specifically to me in Samobor. You have 12,000 solutions someone can complain about. Who is it that will determine what real estate is worth? Depending on the municipal infrastructure available, depending on the type of settlement, rural, mixed or urban, depending on the position within the village itself. You've got a thousand problems that can't be solved. Is that going to be handled by the local administration? What people? He's gonna need to hire new people. Is the state going to solve this? If this country is going to solve it, it will never be solved, so you know it yourself. What the state accepts never gets rid of it. Just that tax, believe me, I'm not just saying that he would be against being unintroduced as such, I know it from experience, all the mayors and the mayors of MOST and HDZ will raise their hands for it tomorrow. That's what she played on the willow. You'll never introduce it because it's just impossible. Not to mention that land books in the good part of Croatia are from Austria with hundreds and hundreds of owners in Australia, Canada or I don't know where. Don't be mad, it's reality, it's not papers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4946	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4947	Thank you very much, Your Honor. No offense, of course, I can now refer in this replica to your speech on behalf of the club. So, first of all, not only anger but you've sent me a few compliments that I thank you for, but one of them I still have to say unwarranted compliments, I'm really not an accountant, even though from all my grades in college I got the lowest from accounting, but never mind, thank you at least for that, I'll call my professor and say that my knowledge in accounting is recognized. As far as real estate tax is concerned, therefore, real estate tax, as we propose, we call it a simple property tax and it is actually an existing communal fee that you know as well as a number of others, and you know from practice in which way and what is the problem. What we are doing and we suggest is that this existing system of municipal compensation is advanced with the previous, or existing three criteria, primarily squares, so physical indicator, purpose, whether it is residential or business and whether there is zoning in a particular city or municipality. We introduce two new criteria, these are age, depending on when it is built or adapted and only the state of the property. However, these are two criteria which we will not ask local self-government to invest additionally in these assessments, as was, for example, an example in some other elements if we were to legalise or, for example, to give energy certificates to one of the stakeholders who made a considerable amount of money on this one. So at minimum costs, we want to improve the existing system of municipal compensation, so we're still not talking about the value element. But the key to this whole real estate tax problem is actually the fact that we're going to simplify it, that we're going to make it local self-government so it can improve those records. And I think you, as head of local self-government, will recognize one by one the very good intentions of this bill. And that's that unlike the communal fee that today is a dedicated income, that simple real estate tax that we're proposing will no longer be a dedicated income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4948	Thank you. Another replica of the esteemed colleague Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister Maric, I was asked by your discussion, that is, your exposure to the lending of young families. Subsidisation of credit especially as a health minister I tried to find ways to prevent and leave doctors and nurses and other health care personnel from Croatia, ways of subsidising loans for housing especially in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia and for hours and hours spent in the Ministry of Finance, Silvio, Silvio, I apologize, talk to the Minister, thank you very much. So for hours and hours spent at the Ministry of Finance, the ministry's professional services have every time convinced me that it's impossible to subsidize long-term loans for 73 billion reasons. It was de facto million kuna a year, so it can't be said that it was big money but it was impossible under the State Budget Act and the State Budget Implementation Act. And I congratulate you for finding the right time to do this not only for doctors and nurses but for all young families. I'd like to know how you managed to convince your own services within the ministry that it's possible now, but I was finally offered when we had both the CNB and everything else. We have to say that I have slowly changed my view that actually subsidising interest that is in Croatia today is 6%, so we would reduce it with the state budget, investing in these interest rates and reduce it to some 2.5.4% and only then would what is normal in the countries around Austria, Slovenia, etc. I personally believe that the burden of reducing interest is primarily on the business banks of Zagrebačka banka, which is primarily given to young families and I believe that it is primarily the burden of banks to reduce interest, and secondaryly if it is not possible for the state to subsidise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4950	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4951	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I'm just repeating once again, so if in this whole package of tax reforms some of the things that really don't make me happy are probably one of them, and now I've just said it before, but I repeat again, so I've explained the reasons why we went with this proposal because I repeat again there is a certain illogicality and injustice, inconsistency and inequality in the system itself. On the legislative proposal you are talking about for the sake of fellow Kuščević, along with his team, and all of us together, of course, in the Government, will be involved. I think we also have a very clear past I'd say successful results. The Honorable representative when he was also the minister on the trail I think they got quite good results. So, all of this together we're going to consider, of course, no one at this point is talking about unlimited interest subsidisation. Certainly, depending on some fiscal capacity and all together, and we will fully consider this problem. But again, I repeat, by looking at the entire tax reform, for sure that both young families and singles and all those who look at the first real estate, I would say by looking from their own perspective, that first goal of some kind when you step into some kind of an adult life you can say that you're certainly looking at that property. And that's one of the things that these legal proposals and the whole package won't be ignored. But again, when you mention doctors, I think it's in this segment that one of the strong messages of this tax reform for doctors, but also for engineers, and ACT experts and the like. Because surely these corrections and changes in the income tax system are because countless times we've just said that. We all refer very well to macroeconomic export numbers and, unfortunately, the past period is one of the categories that has been recorded in our exports has been exports of human power. And I think that is precisely one of the elements that this tax reform should prevent, or ultimately give sufficient and valid reasons and the argument of the real nature that people not only stay in Croatia but ultimately be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4952	Thank you. The third replica is the esteemed colleague, Marco Vedligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4953	Thank you. There are two specific questions, Mr. Secretary. Will these compensatory measures make you aware of the potential growth that we will have due to the increase, due to the reduction in unemployment and possible increase in wages for 2017? So in my local unit yesterday it's mentioned that it's about a dozen percent growth means this year compared to last year. Of course, next year is planned at about the same level. And another question about the company tax. Local units are losing 120 million kuna, is there any compensation measures here? And here's that there won't be just one more question, I'm actually glad that you've appreciated what was through the debate all yesterday and today are these communal reliefs, and I'm going to call them the releases for the communal fee that we've introduced for our economics or investors in our business zone and you're going to take that into account in the new Real estate tax law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4954	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4955	Thank you very much. Well, of course, as with the state budget and planning, as well as with the budget of local self-government, some new circumstances are certainly taken into account. I think that we should all look positively together according to 2017 and the fact that we will predict economic growth for that year as well. Over the next few days, the government will publish, come out publicly with its forecasts of economic growth for next year, which will also mean additional input in terms of not only planning but generally considering budgetary policy both the state budget and local self-government. So, I've read you the legal proposal we're going with. Surely this element that you're saying we're going to take, he's not recognized at this point, but I still think that economic growth and local self-government will mean not only from the perspective of their budgetary policy in terms of the revenue side of the budget, but the wider context means a lot to you. As regards the abolition of the tax on the name, name or company, this is the 120 million kuna which, again in the whole package, will not be ignored. So I've listed it several times and said, I'm talking about a comprehensive reform but we're actually talking about a reform that goes exclusively to the burden of the state budget. And again, as finance minister, it would be really irresponsible and, if you want, a little bit crazy to ignore the budgets and results of units of local and regional self-government because they are ultimately part of the general budget and when we talk about the figures of the general government deficit and when we talk about public debt, we involve both public debt and local self-government. I've got a few more seconds, so I can say the same thing, so that argument that I used to use wasn't in some negative context mentioned, but this year units of local and regional self-government in the first nine months have really good results, really good results. There are different circumstances that have led to this, but I repeat again what will surely be advocated not to come into a situation in any case like this year, which is that individual units of local and regional self-government have problems with, say, co-financing of EU projects. So they have everything prepared but because of the fiscal capacity which is, for the sake of you know, whose reasons are limited they were not able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4956	Thank you, Minister. The fourth replica is a respected colleague, Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4957	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Maric, again the subject of real estate tax. So what we first have to conclude are municipalities, units of local self-government, especially smaller municipalities have neither administrative nor fiscal capacity to carry out certain things to the end. If all we remember was renting agricultural land, we had some commissions run by people on the property. When Arcod showed up, then all of a sudden, people said, "I can't even get in there by helicopter." Of course, while they were getting incentives it wasn't a problem, and when they had to pay bigger rents, what they weren't really in possession of was then a problem. You say you'll get data from local self-government units. Do you know how communal compensation was normally determined in local self-government units? This will happen to you, that you will not have a vague picture of the real situation, but you will have a clear picture of the completely unreal state. And that's just what my colleague Whitey warned you about. It won't be feasible, and first of all, it won't be fair. If someone walked a meter and measured the gauges of the house, if anyone considered that a single man lived alone in the house so he didn't take one floor. If you get that information now, and then someone from the IRS or any other body comes by to check people will get in big trouble. That's why I think the communal fee as such should have remained with the units of local self-government. Let it be called a local tax, but it never goes to state, to state level it won't be feasible. That's my point of view. I've pointed that out more than once.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4958	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4959	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have the same attitude. It is not proposed to go to a simple real estate tax in the state budget at all. I repeat again. It remains as it is now a communal fee, the income of cities and municipalities with one improvement I would say of cities and municipalities that there will be no more dedicated income, but there will be general income. So you'll be able to use it as the original income of your budgets. I think it's definitely an improvement, but in no case was there a speech to give a simple real estate tax or direct it to the level of the state budget. So that's where I think it's supposed to be very, very simple, i.e. clear. What you said about certain municipalities. Well, we're aware of that. There are a whole series of municipalities, so if you want cities that don't have their administrative capacities built enough I have to say eventually, not by my own fault. They just might be too small or maybe they don't have that much experience. But I repeat, that's why the IRS and the State Geodetic Authority will be there with all their analytical capabilities, with all their systems. I mentioned the OIB system, the legalization system, everything that simply helps these units, among other things, to update these records and to keep the entire system together. This is one of the things we will be dealing with during 2017 because the proposed changes we are now putting before you are actually with effect 1.1.2018. I think we have plenty of time to repeat, with one quality and hired work, the associations of cities and municipalities, and the state administrations, of course, find the best quality solution. Since I've got a little more time, I'm still a little bit of an accountant. So I have to say the same thing. With this tax, so what's important to mention is with all this. So, this work that we will do during 2017 will, of course, be parallel to the public and there will be no obstacles to something being brought before the final act. The association of cities that came with these calculations actually ultimately means that the vast majority of Croatian citizens will not feel an increase. So a slightly simpler real estate tax will be paid by those with younger and better quality properties compared to our citizens with old and less quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4960	Thank you. And replica number five, distinguished colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4961	Dear Mr. Jandrokovic, dear Mr. Maric. So so far, I've fought against you and HDZ in my own words, and now on this property tax, I'm going to fight your words and I'm going to play the speeches that you HDZ gentlemen have had against real estate taxes. Here. He spoke so your colleague Maric next. That these are unfair taxes and impositions that will lead to the poverty of 99% of citizens. The second March. Let's move on, he says. Real estate tax, the biggest social coup in the country. Real estate should not be subject to taxation. Tax will destroy and impoverish citizens. It's a hit on 99% of the citizens. We condemn this tax, gentlemen of the HDZ, that's your word. The property tax leads to total poverty. It's an aggressor tax. Sir, here's to the property tax. Everything will be bought by strangers. The property tax is a blow to citizens who have been saving for decades by building houses and cottages. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. People in retirement won't be able to enjoy it, because they'll be forced to sell it, they'll be forced to sell it to strangers. That's what Bozidar Calmeta said, ladies and gentlemen. He's on the trail, keep an eye out, how's the old lady living in the house going to pay 20,000 kuna tax? Not at all. HDZ. Her house will be auctioned after several years of inability to pay taxes when real estate prices fall due to such a tax. The effect of this tax would be three and a half billion kuna of direct damage. If the value of the property falls by only 10%, it'll be 75 billion kuna. Ladies and gentlemen, those are the words of you HDZ. And keep this going. From the opposition HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4962	Dear colleague Pernar, time is up. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4963	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4964	Thank you. Comrade Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4965	Thank you very much. I got a book I got a few years ago for last name's birthday. Maric is the fourth largest name in Croatia, very close to Babic and Kovacevic, Horvat is number one. So, who said what? I think what you've quoted from me is certainly not heard from my mouth, but let me once again refer to myself and sublime myself since this is my last address in this first round of reading. First of all, I thank you all, of course, in your own personal name and on behalf of my entire team. I think we've had the past three days and, of course, we've had the final presentations of certain clubs with a quality and constructive debate. I repeat again. It is our pleasure that despite the short time we managed to put it all together through two readings. So, you can expect, after receiving a phonogram of this entire session for the last three days, we will in the next two or three days over the weekend bring it all together in some way, let it into the government's procedure, and I believe that the government will be able to adopt practically final or finally refer to the Croatian Parliament's final proposals of these laws, and surely, as in my first reading, I am also looking forward to this second reading. I think that some of these comments that we've heard will be able to incorporate, for some that I'm not going to give an explanation as I have now given, a valid and reasoned explanation for why something won't be possible. But in any case, I'd still say maybe one final sentence because some of you eventually recognized it in the exhibits, I repeat again, this package of tax changes, tax reform is not the only one you're going to get from the government. Of course, in front of my colleagues and all of us together as Government is a whole of course not only of the challenges but also of the concrete solutions with which we will come before you with legal and private proposals, various areas, structural adjustments, structural reforms that should ultimately result in what we are all ultimately talking about most economic growth, employment and demographic recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4966	Thank you very much, Minister. There are six final address clubs left for the final vote of ten minutes, so we failed to vote at 12 o'clock, and we will vote when the debate is over. What I would ask you, of course, not to reduce your right to replicas that if we can in any way reduce the number of replicas since one number of MPs and MPs have certain obligations as well in Vukovar, so let's see the debate end in the next hour and a half to two would be very good. That's how I appeal, but of course on your conscience is how you do it. The next club of MPs is the HDS-HSLS Club of Representatives, finally respected counterpart Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen. I will say this in very short sentences that when the government starts working with its first month of tax reform, it actually gives a single guideline and a path of the entire mandate and it's definitely absolutely to greet it. I think this is the best possible start of this government's work. In discussions that have been in replicas these three days on behalf of the HDS-HSLS Club, I have already presented some concrete examples and suggestions, of course in the meantime others. I got the impression by talking to people on the ground from all structures that basically this package of tax laws reform has a lot more positive than negative effects. I just want to look back here a little bit more on the Law on Local Taxes, and I'm also going to make little suggestions here, although I've prepared for a written amendment and a possible addition of those laws, so it'll be easier to follow, but in any case, in Article 12. The law on local taxes might be useful to look at who shouldn't pay taxes on vehicles, which I don't think is clear enough. Let's say it says fire departments, I'd say it might be good to write for all fire trucks, and then humanitarian associations, persons with disabilities for carrying people with disabilities, that would be good to put it in anyway... I'll give it in writing. Also in that part of the Law on Local Taxes in Article 31, we have so far had the possibility in the decisions on municipal compensation to enable the representative bodies of the units of local self-government to free the payment of the municipal fee of a particular group and I think the law should allow local self-government, their representative bodies to continue to do so. This is also related to various associations again and groups, institutions that have already been, but it is also related to entrepreneurs unless it conflicts with some other laws because we have so far had in local self-government a rather present situation that local self-governments have freed the payments of municipal fees to business entities that have started to operate may have been building new factories over a period of four to five years. I mean, if that's possible, it would certainly be a good thing to leave something like that at our disposal. What I was asked by our county Chamber of Commerce of Koprivnica and Križevci County one proposal to deduct the pretax on the van of a vehicle used by the taxpayer to transport workers to and from work. It's special with the building. I'll make a concrete suggestion in writing, but here you are, and you're not gonna see it a little bit. And one interesting proposal also the Chamber of Commerce is to pay off the share in profit to workers. Therefore, one idea from the shareholders that it would be good for the Income Tax Act to receive from the share of the profits paid by the company to the workers, to tax equal to the payments of the share in the profits that companies make to the natural persons on the basis of ownership of shares and shares. I realized that the intensity is that one part of that gets practically divided into workers who are not shareholders. Of course, it is necessary to comply with other laws and see what is possible. And I'm going to go back to that part about the excise tax code, so I'm going back to those little distillations, the little producers that make alcoholic beverages in small distilleries. I believe that this could be the case where the maximum protection of domestic producers by adding this excise duty to ethyl alcohol which produces small distilleries which are released into consumption on the territory of the Republic of Croatia is paid at a rate of 50% of the excise duty prescribed in Article 60(6) of this Act, subject to the possession of its own raw materials of orchards, vineyards, war cultures or evidence of the lease of the same. Here I am asking to consider it would certainly be good. And what's not directly related to this package of laws that I spoke of in replicas on several occasions. I'm really calling for this imposition of ZAMP, it's not just an imposition of a caterer, it's a coercion and a trade and it's a coercion and a business car. So we had a situation in the utility company that the ZAMP inspector wanted to charge us for every radio tape recorder in the car to basically register it that way. We've made a decision that we'll just let you take out all the radio tape recorders. And then we got into trouble because in new vehicles it's pretty hard to do, it's not really possible to get it out of the car. Well, then I'd like to ask you to really see it and see that we're also discharging the caterers and all the other entities that are being used. We will, of course, support this package of laws and give our proposals yet to possibly fit into the final second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4968	Thank you, colleague Hrg. Next debate, distinguished colleague Tulio Demetlika, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4969	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to sum up in this final presentation, for which, as a club of IDS, PGS and the List of Rivers, we advocate and present a few more warnings and suggestions regarding this package of tax laws. I would briefly like to look back once again on the proposal of the VAT Act. In fact, the total revenue paid to the state budget from value added tax in 2015 was €43.5 billion. This was an increase of 2.6 billion kuna compared to 2014. It means that despite the VAT rate, the reduced VAT rate in tourism has increased since 2013. If we take into account continued growth by all Croatian tourism parameters of over 6% each year, we do not have to worry that the flow of money into the state budget from the VAT item will decrease, but it can only continue to grow. However, raising VAT on catering services will be a major blow to Croatian tourism. It will deny the adopted Tourism Development Strategy in this House, will reduce investment and employment in the long term, which will certainly slow down the trend in growth and the progressive branch of the economy, which even the increased VAT rate will not be able to compensate. We've been doing an analysis where we've come to an account that out of these 43.5 billion kunas in the state budget there are 11 billion left right from the Istrian County and the Primorian Mountains. That's the data we calculated ourselves because unfortunately from the IRS to that data is hard to get, it's hiding. And I'm going to tie myself to the words he said and the minister is going to be much more transparent in the next period, so I'm going to ask you through the second reading to tell us how much that VAT is collected in the counties and to see how it's filling up. Because we believe that tourism with a reduced rate has just contributed to this annual increase in VAT payments. Next, there's been a lot of talk about real estate tax, and I'm not going to go in and repeat myself on communal compensation and transformation because we've seen that there's not going to be any bigger income for local self-government. However, these two fundamental changes that are made in relation to the current law are to abolish the tax exemption on first real estate and reduce the overall rate of real estate tax from 5% to 4%. That's what's worrying us. Because this is what I'm going to say is a bad break in tax reform to the harm of young people who should be the bearers of economic and social progress. Such a proposal does not go in favour of demographic recovery, the most intelligent policy or the prevention of emigration. The solutions proposed by the Tax and Real Estate Act will not only reduce income to all units of local self-government but also reduce income in a way that is precisely the most developed areas of income from real estate tax where this traffic is and is happening while underdeveloped areas and less developed areas will receive less income from real estate tax. So that the impact and inequality between different parts of Croatia is only increasing, rather than working on the undeveloped and underdeveloped areas reaching those underdeveloped and already developed areas to further advance towards European standards of development. Here we must be realistic and say that this is a very unstable income of our local units, knowing what the prices and traffic of real estate are in a significant area of our country, on these foundations to plan the budget is simply insecure. This income is very difficult to assess and certainly cannot be the basis for stable budgets on local self-government. But what we're also afraid of is that just at a small door through this kind of real estate tax measure we're going to bring exactly those small, poor municipalities into a situation of unstable budget, they're going to be forced to go bankrupt or close or attach to another municipality. So we're sort of introducing reform into local self-government. What I want to point out in the end is that, as a policy, we must show our social sensitivity and worry about the most vulnerable categories of our citizens. I agree, and it is certainly commendable to this proposal, the ministry and to the Employers' Association, by the businessmen, so that we agree that it is necessary to make it possible to disbursement entrepreneurs and businessmen, to give an incentive to empowering the economy. And in that sense, I also understand the intention that has been taken to create a proposal for a Law on Local Taxes and a proposal to abolish the tax on the company and the name. But I can't help but notice how, by removing that tax in a privileged position, the biggest ones, the strongest financial ones, what we mentioned was 1%, i.e. That's where we prefer the banks and the big capital again. And I think there's still a balance to be found on this. We policy must be in some way the scale between that economic part and that part of the employees, i.e. People and find the right measure as much as burden. Because the way to contribute to those whose tax is only a minimum share compared to the profit of teaching through the company tax and to allocate funds for the development of local self-government units. And that those small entrepreneurs and craftsmen who work in their companies earn their bread and their families are freed from that tax. By establishing such a balance, we would not go from extreme to extreme, from taxation to absolute non-taxation. In short, I would leave that freedom to local self-governments if they had certain autonomy that through that tax they could also make some revenue, free those who need it, but those who are rich have that possibility that we can charge for it. Because today it is an amazing fact that, for example, Countys especially but also local self-government units have almost no authority to introduce and determine certain elements of their own taxes or other incomes. So that I am the units of local self-government, personally, would be calm if the minister presented concrete and precise compensatory measures for local budgets between the two readings of the proposed reforms. I stand for clear rules, clear criteria, not for compensatory measures to be applied selectively and I'll be rude a little bit to the party key, and not to measure what Mr. Lucic said yesterday at the Minister's word, that what is not enough for the minister to give us a guarantee? I trust the Minister but I would still like to have clear criteria written and that all these criteria are the same. In the end, I will again because I come from the IDS party and together with our PGS partners and the River List where we are in 25 years I will say those who fight for decentralisation. I must conclude that through these changes to all the laws on decentralisation there is only a dead letter left on paper because Croats love to be often champions in everything and what I fear will really take the first place in Europe, that we will threaten Greece and that we will be the most centralized state in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4970	Thank you, too. We have one replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4971	Dear fellow Tulio, of course, I share your concern about increasing VAT in catering, but I am even more concerned about reducing the profit tax or eliminating the reinvested profit relief. If someone wanted to maybe he shouldn't have left full relief for reinvested profits, he could have left it easier, but because it is certain that the reinvested profit is reinvested in Croatia, that this gain opens jobs and whoever thinks the jobs will come alone from the sky, it's wrong. It is very difficult to open up any early place and it is very irresponsible to plan jobs in tens of thousands and, on the other hand, so easily fire a reinvested profit that really or even boosts technology in the preservation of jobs or goes into purchasing new activities and creates new jobs there. And what he would object to, I believe, is that you share my opinion that the laws do not have an impact assessment, that we do not know who and what it is, that they did not give us indicators of who made the profits last year, whether they are businesses or banks, whether banks will create their new infrastructure in Romania or Bulgaria with easier delivery from Croatia. So I resent the applicant because the laws are not sufficiently reasoned and equipped. I'd like to know in person what's going to happen to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4972	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4973	Thank you, colleagues. In this part of the last part, I fully agree with you. We don't know what's going to happen to us in the next year, two years, so as a representative of local self-government, I'm sure as a representative of local self-government, I'm stressing my concern that we're going to plan the budget. But in the first part, I disagree. I think that the ministry with partners has just reached a high-quality law and then I said in my statement that I will support in this work because the development of the economy will certainly contribute to new employment and... through the proposal that they proposed a reinvested profit with the consent of the economy. They agreed and accepted. And I believe that this will be a contribution to here and greater income so that even pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, so we need to think positively and that we will certainly get something positive from this law. But our remarks will help to improve a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4974	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the HDZ Representatives Club and distinguished counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates, Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's after 25 hours of debate on this tax reform I think we can conclude that with a certain number of remarks that I'm just going to look back on that tax reform hitting the goal that's set at the beginning, which is that it's going towards discharging citizens, on the one hand. Another thing and entrepreneurs, so citizens and entrepreneurs. The second important objective was the sustainability of public finances and the financing of regional and local self-government. And the third important thing is the safety of macroeconomic indicators, macroeconomic stability through a state budget announced at a 2% deficit. What is particularly pointed out in this debate and what concerns have arisen is, in the first place, the part relating to the uncertainty and financial stability of the units of local self-government because we are not through these, along with these 15 laws, and 16 very important laws that are being drawn up, which Mr. Minister says we will go through the simulation that has been made, but which will be simulated to make sure that the measures that result from this reform are precisely precise and defined and then make a law that will redistribute the common taxes, income tax and income tax. So maybe we better have a simulation. Afterwards, we pass a law not like what we had previously done, which is to make the law count that we well predicted how many units of local self-government would lose by reducing income tax, i.e. by reducing the income tax rate and increasing the personal deduction we found during 2016 that the units of local self-government were not adequately compensated by such a change in the participation and distribution of income tax and profit tax. Therefore, if this is said I said so in my debate on behalf of the club, it would be good for the Minister to refer to his district if it was not already done to the leaders of the units of local and regional, or regional self-government, clear guidance for the establishment of the budget and at 2016 level so that through the next year, funds from the state budget could be transferred to both grandmothers and uncles, not by political similarity, but according to the level of the budget that units of local self-government will carry out in 2016. This is a very important thing, noting that as soon as possible we expect to define the final Bill on the financing of a unit of regional, local and regional self-government, while defining and adopting all the coefficients, i.e. the index of the development of a single unit of local self-government and individual county, so that we can then and more fully discuss it. The second important thing I want to point out is the fear and fear that has been expressed in this debate, so that there is no abuse of the ability to free banks from profit taxes when writing down bad bills, or bad loans. So I think that the additional regulation should be a government or a ministry regulation, but in any case, a sublegal act should prevent the possibility of bank abuse so that those credits that have been written off and thus be valorised as tax-recognition expenditure and reduce the profits of banks should not be abused in a way that they are traded with them and in this way this law would indeed be played out. I am convinced that the sublaw will definitely have to define it. And the third thing I'd like to point out is that if it wasn't done in a certain way, you'd be dealing with the stain on this whole reform, which is the release, the elimination of tax exemptions to the first real estate. There's a great substitution for that, and I've already told you that. There is a State Guarantee Act and subsidisation of housing loans, which not only requires substituting the fact that we have lifted the relief when buying the first real estate especially for resolving the housing issue. This should be compensated for by measure, with a law that was in force in 2011 and 2012, which I think has been irrevocably abolished because so far it is the best model of buying apartments especially for young people. In just two and a half months, we witnessed over 1450 purchases of new apartments. The average age of customers was 31 years. The average price was 1350 euros and the average size of the apartment is about 62 square meters. So, this is said to have been bought by young people primarily as their first real estate, primarily to solve their housing, solve and meet their housing needs, so I ask the government to listen well to this debate and as a substitute for abolishing this relief very quickly the Ministry of Construction and the Government come to this House with this law that we will not only replace to the young families. This part that we have lifted from them is much more than that, and if we go back to the law and model that has been in place, we can make four times the amount of funding available as a grant from the state budget. Here and finally, given that we have long discussed all these remarks, I expect the Government, and I see that this is very carefully written all these remarks that until the next debate, to refer to this and to the quality of the answers, we are actually doing this to really focus on discharging citizens and entrepreneurs by encouraging economic growth in Croatia and which is not less important to final stability both public finances, thus improving macroeconomic economic indicators in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4976	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for this debate. We have two replicas. The first came to the line, a distinguished colleague, Rechimer Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4977	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. And you like all of us these two days, we're actually up for the young. But I ask, what about us elders? Today I read in the paper that the Minister of Construction is proposing certain measures to subsidise the first real estate tax, regardless of whether it's a new or an old property. Do we pensioners have the right to some past work? I suggested that we return to the solution we had before 1997 to pay real estate sales tax on the difference in value, the real estate market. So let's let the old ones change the bigger living space for the old ones. If the young buys old space, bigger space, they'll get a grant. And what about us who, anyway, with small pensions, we have to pay all the directs, and we're the first to pay? There's no discharge in the pensioners for these expenses. Bud, because this tax reform is actually breaking down on the domicile pensioners. You suggested for foreign pensions 50% less than now that they pay 100% tax. So, only the domicile pensioners stay, no one cares about us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4978	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Varda for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Varda, therefore, the pensioners are not an isolated category in this reform. It will monitor the fate of all other Croatian citizens and all employees in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, where he was not a pensioner, he was an employee of the income tax obligation not to increase the amount of salary, nor was he a pensioner, he was an employee. Thus, in that part we share the common destiny of both pensioners and employees. On the other hand, what this reform offers is a reduction in value added tax, a reduction in VAT on certain services such as the price of electricity, such as the price of waste disposal and thus, I clearly believe that it will be possible to contribute to that part of the improvement of living standards. And what we expect is that these measures envisaged by this reform lead to an improvement and growth of economic growth in Croatia that would allow more resources in the state budget, and then an increase in pensions or the ratio between average salary and pension. I agree with you that it is necessary to work to increase pensions and to coordinate with the increase of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. I think that one of the priority measures must be for this government, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4980	I thank my esteemed colleague Branko Bacic for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4981	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Bacic, I agree with you. It is not correct to say that this reform is of no use, because it does have good and quality solutions that I very much like. But I ask you as parliamentary council, find space for the poor, and for the unemployed, and for those with small incomes, and for the pensioners, that they too feel that this assembly is not quite so insolent. I have during this past time appealed to the parliamentary council specifically to give up the first real estate tax and to give up the relief for the reinvested profit especially when it comes to young people because it is their only light at the end of the tunnel, it is their only hope of getting to work, that they will create their home, that they will have a family, that they will have children and that they will have their roof over their heads and over that roof that will be the Croatian sky. So once again, please think that way. And another appeal to the minister – I am sorry that he left – independent service for detecting tax fraud, etc. IRSTITUTION is a body that has both knowledge, and courage, and honesty, and results and fins is a fight against crime. It's probably why a lot of people are upset and it's becoming a threat to them, but not only to frauds outside the IRS, but also to those in the IRS -- I don't mean to everyone but there are -- from the second-degree department, to the PKK, which they already call the IRS. And that's why I'm kind of appealing to the minister not to castrate the IRS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4982	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Ronka, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Ronko that you are right, and you are not that this reform does not take care of the most endangered citizens of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, you are wrong because it takes care. But I'm saying that if you were right, it would be much less than the fact that your government started immediately with an increase in the overall VAT rate of 2%, which caused the price of products in the Republic of Croatia to rise by 25%, that without consent, not you, but your government without the consent of HERA, the Croatian regulatory agencies increased the price of electricity by 25%, which was a huge blow to the standard of all Croatian citizens, that you increased the price of gas, that you increased within a few months in addition to those two most important energy plants in the Republic of Croatia by 1 and a half kuna per metre of cubic water in the Republic of Croatia, which cost about 400 million Croatian citizens. That was all in a few months. If that social sensitivity you just told me here, then it would be, surely the standard of living for the pensioners and those most endangered you stand for would be where and where better. Therefore, if we were credible when we were government and we were opposition, it would probably be much better for everyone. As for your observations on the reinvested profit, the fact that this measure was well imagined at the beginning is used only 1.8 and in the second year 0.8 Croatian entrepreneurs say that they did not hit the target. Therefore, for me not because I am a member of the HDZ but because I am trying to see very realistically from the position of Croatian entrepreneurs, the fact that by 10% my income tax is reduced if I am an entrepreneur of over 3 million total incomes, and by 8% if I am below that I think it is indeed a measure that affects and helps entrepreneurs who then increase the salary of all their employees if they want to, it is on their souls.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4984	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply to the replica. We move on to the next debate, final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Mr. Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4985	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. In recent days, we have conducted mostly quality and comprehensive discussions on the subject of legal changes that make up this tax reform. MOST Independent Lists has a positive view of the proposed changes and intensities of the overall tax reform, but we think that the minister and his expert team should also consider the quality proposals that came from parliamentary representatives regardless of which sides they come from. The tax changes ahead of us are a quality framework for promoting economic growth and less tax burden on our citizens. In addition, what is important is that they guarantee a stable and sustainable system because the fact that we would respect all the suggestions we had to hear during these two days would be a huge deficit. I particularly welcome the intention of discharging labour and capital because this is the direction the Most is also behind from the very beginning. We consider it an extremely high quality solution to be a tax-deduction of capital through a reduction in profit tax from 20% to 18%, and for small entrepreneurs to 12%. We see this as positive for the reason that this measure leaves resources to entrepreneurs for investment and new employment. In the future, we believe that there is also a need to look at other opportunities for tax disbursement of capital such as a reduction or a complete elimination of income tax on capital for dividend recipients and a share in profits based on a share in capital because this creates a positive investment environment for domestic and foreign investors, and once again dynamics the development of financial markets as an alternative source of investment financing. A percentage reduction in profit tax for entrepreneurs who employ a certain number of young highly educated persons, an additional reduction in profit tax for export-oriented industries and create high added value, the ICT sector, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, high-tech industries and the like. Of course, it is about proposals that can only be considered when we see the results of the reforms that are on our table today. The proposed income tax reform framework by reducing the rate from 25% to 24% and from 40 to 36%, with an increase in the threshold for personal deductions at 3.800 kuna levels, is considered to be positive because it increases labour competitiveness and increases the available income of citizens and stimulates consumption. This leaves more resources to employees, encourages personal consumption and makes work more competitive towards foreign and domestic investors. We also believe that, in the future, a greater reduction in the proposed rate of income tax from 24% to 21% should be sought, as this would include the tax discharge to a greater extent the citizens from the so-called so-called. middle income. Such a way would further cover a segment of highly educated labour that emigrated from Croatia, engineers, IT experts, doctors, etc. These proposals will depend on fiscal stability following the impact of the tax reform that is now being proposed. As suggested in the presentation in front of the club, we think it might already be possible to apply an increase in personal deduction for people with foster children. With regard to VAT, it is important that after the discussion, a decision to maintain a 5% rate taxing bread, milk, medicines and orthopaedic aid is taken, thus showing certain social sensitivity, and it is about products that make up the primary consumer basket. We are particularly pleased with the reduction of VAT on electricity consumption, which directly helps all consumers. And I hope that this measure, as well as the action plan of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, will preserve the price of electricity and perhaps reduce our citizens' accounts. The reform proposal proposes to reorganise the independent sector for the detection of tax fraud by the Ministry of Finance, so-called. The tax USKOK, which is currently acting on its own and is commanded only by the Minister of Finance in a way that is being transferred as part of the Tax Administration. The position of MOST is generally known, and we have repeatedly reiterated that we are satisfied with the work that is being done within the USKOK, without prejudice to the results of other administrations and sectors that are being discussed today by the Minister of Finance. We will use this time within two discussions to get answers to all open issues related to the position and work of this sector, taking into account, of course, the minister's guarantee that this sector wants to maintain equal success. The set of these tax changes also includes the abolition of the company's tax which we particularly welcome because it is a proposal that we previously advocated as a small step towards entrepreneurs who say that the government wants to go in the direction of discharging entrepreneurs from unnecessary burdens. This is a great relief because in order to make the entrepreneur healthier and better quality medium or large, it must first pass the phase of small and micro entrepreneurship. Like the other MPs, and I think the most debate went in this direction, we have expressed concern about the reduction of the incomes of local self-government units, but given the announcements that their funds will be compensations through the state budget, I believe that will compensate. As for the relief provided for credit investments in the event of write-offs, we welcome the ministry's measure to help over-indebted citizens, but on the other hand it should be kept in mind that the situation in which banks will write off debts only to companies without any property while the citizens will remain in debt. What I should definitely correct through another reading and will not negatively affect the state budget can even have a positive impact is the issue of unproven origin of the property. Until now, he has been disproportionately taxed at a 40% rate and from now on, Article 78 will be taxed at only 36%. This sends a bad message to the secretors to carry on their activities freely because if they are caught they will pay the same tax as if the income themselves had reported because they certainly entered at the highest rate. And in Article 89, paragraph 8 of the asset verification deadlines have been reduced to all the last six years, and I think the Ministry of Finance should be respected. It's one bad message, nothing means it won't affect the budget, it can only affect positively. And I think that through the second reading it definitely needs to be corrected and other proposals like I said at the beginning of the MP who won't significantly affect the budget and means the quality proposals are. Finally, we believe that this reform will encourage a stronger investment cycle, employment and increase the income of citizens but also keep the budget stable and we have a positive view of the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4986	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoja, for the debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4987	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will quote to you a statement by my colleague Grumo, "It would be a shame for the general state of the country that the employees of the independent sector for the detection of tax returns are reduced to officials who will no longer practically know who they are or will be left without existing powers. Over a very short period of time, they have shown that they possess knowledge that has not been observed in the system until then. All of this led to successful investigations in several extremely sensitive cases. I will do everything to correct the proposal for a general tax law in the section that provides for the abolition of existing powers for taxpayers. If, from me, inexplicable and completely unwarranted reasons, I will continue to insist that these people engage in police work where I will open up maximum space for them to continue their work even stronger than ever before. So this is your Minister Orepic's statement, which only further confirms the complete inexplicability of the idea that the taxpayer's BOOK is singled out, that his powers are reduced and that we are likely to see the names of the people who work in the taxpayer, their phone numbers as announced today where his headquarters will be. It's about people who, through secret investigations, have achieved success, which is probably the biggest of all the bodies that have exposed dirty money, tax fraud. I will repeat a billion kunas the amount of investigations they have conducted and found tax fraud in Croatia. Therefore, the separation of this body, the anti-corruption body, must also have a deeper background. And I call on you as a coalition partner who is responsible for all that this government is doing to resist the separation of this body in the way that Minister Maric predicts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4988	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his replica. And a reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4989	Dear counterpart Jovanovic, so I have made it clear in my presentation and this was the view of MOST that the minister has the right to propose the best way he sees the system will work and perhaps it is those people you speak of, which Minister Orepic mentioned as the best lacmus paper, that works but is still the taxIN in the tax administration system. If most of these people who are trained for this, who went abroad, who has excellent results like you and said remain within that system and the results continue to be good, it will be an indication to all of us that what the Minister of Finance has proposed is also a quality solution. And if these people go somewhere else, then we'll all have to wonder if this is the best solution the finance minister has suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4990	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoja, for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've noticed very well in this section that by reducing the rate from 40 to 36%, in fact, and all those who, tax evasionrs, are brought to that level, you can freely tax evasion, if one day and catch you, you'll pay the rate regularly as if you're of 36%. So I think how, I don't know what kind of message was sent here, we know in special countries that when you have, that's 70% rate, or even taking away property benefit in that part, and no, I don't know if it was a mistake, a lapus in passing this law, but it certainly needs to be examined. Because you're actually giving a message, so let's all go tax evasion, if you get caught, you'll pay like you've been some sort of regular process. And I think it's very well noticed and I don't think we're expecting an answer here but to change it urgently until the second reading. And if it stays, then it will certainly be asked why it was set. I hope it's just a certain lapus and it will be corrected by the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4992	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, for the replica. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4993	Dear fellow Lalovac, that's what we are, the representatives of MOST as we review these legal proposals, and I don't believe the intensity was bad, it may be a mistake, but it's definitely not good to send a message like that. I agree with you, I would significantly increase that rate by sending a message that Croatia cannot behave in this way and that must be the position of both the Government and all of us here as parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4994	I thank my esteemed colleague Grumoja for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague named Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear comrade Grmoya, you said that the pensioners in the end line would be all great because the VAT on electricity fell, VAT on bread, milk falling, in fact, with electricity you said there might be a price reduction. And I calculated around that it would be all right because the pensioners would save about 18 kuna a month, counting 5% per pound of bread, for two plenty and a liter of milk. And colleague Lackovic has elaborated the whole problem and all the prices of milk. However, to be clear, I will surely support this tax reform with the amendment at least as regards the replacement of real estate because I am aware as a pensioner that it means growth of the economy, means employment and that is the only prerequisite for pensions to grow. I don't invite pensioners to the street anyway because they're already on the street. In the markets, they collect food waste, and they collect bottles in containers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4996	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Varda for the replica. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4997	Dear colleague Varda, I know that you have a need to mention the pensioners because of your electoral body, and I didn't mention them at all, so I was talking about discharging entrepreneurs to new investments, hiring. And as for the electricity bill, I think you've been inside the National Coalition and inside which Minister Vrdoljak has produced all of this about the incentive for electricity, which is why he threatens and collects electricity from our citizens. I called it a joint criminal enterprise here and one of the biggest robberies since the creation of an independent Croatia, and you supported it, you went to the elections. Well, then don't, so I would never support it, and I've looked at these legal proposals, seen what he did illogically and here. You're responsible for this, and please don't call me anything that has anything to do with electricity. That's what you tell Mr. Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4998	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoja, for his reply to the replica. Next to the replica, the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u4999	Thank you very much. My colleague Grumo, you said there was a tax cut for those who couldn't prove the property because they mostly stole and robbed mostly after the Homeland War and in the war what was social, which was common, so I don't know how it was before that there was 40% of what was stolen. We'll tax what we stole 45%, and now it's down to 36 and even limited by deadlines. Here is the only real legal change, yesterday I was in the debate this afternoon speaking the Law on the Origin of Assets. That's what I'm saying as an individual, but the MOST club should, because there's also a minister of justice to get that law out together with all the clubs, but that's all we can repay to those, because now we're in the big week of Vukovar, who gave their lives to this country and those who are on the street because of those who have empires today. So the Law on the Origin of Assets would be a real solution, a simple law that we should all propose together and that this Parliament adopt this law here. That's what the people are waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5000	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the replica. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5001	Dear colleague Bulj, you know very well that I would be the first to make some quality legal proposal that could, which would be exhilaratingly supportive. I have no fear of you talking about tycoons who robbed Croatia. With many of them, we have come to terms with it, we will continue to do so, and here I hope that even more will befall them if we bring such a legal proposal, of course, with the support of all the MPs in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5002	I thank my esteemed colleague Grumoja for his reply. With this, we have exhausted all the replicas in this debate and the following has appeared on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Labour Party of Solidarity, and Reformist, Independent Representatives, Honorable colleague Željko Lacković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5003	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, I will take this opportunity to finally give support to the legislators of these legislative changes and to point to one fact that perhaps now you may not see it through the adoption of these measures, and in fact it is about you being able to get the next elections in these legal decisions. But you need to apply some other things that are actually crumbs from the table that are expected primarily by food producers, primarily the continental part of Croatia, which you can do through changes to the general tax code. So, you're when you let banks write off credit ratings that I can't charge to make it a tax relief. In that part, you must negotiate with the banks that they sold to risk funds B2, Norwegian, Swedish or as they are already called do not produce effects if they want to use tax relief. So, all credits bad to natural persons must be covered through this relief, and you can agree with banks or otherwise prevent these funds from being more, not banks through foreign lawyers who will come to Croatia to press on all those natural persons who have property and where mortgages are entered. Among other things, why I think you're going to get the next election if you introduce the next thing is the fact that your OPGs, individual farmers, craftsmen, are burdened with all the debt that the state has written on behalf of a request for health insurance, pension insurance, and these people are in one impossible situation all the time. You can take away everything that you have burdened them with small OPGs, individual farmers on their fields and the property of health insurance supplies because the health system has been resolved on several occasions right from the state budget and you need to equalise the position of those debtors with the situation when, say, shipyards have left you with thousands and thousands of unpaid health and pension obligations, and these people have achieved all their rights and you have done nothing further to legal persons. Among other things, you now have a situation where people can't retire who were farmers if they haven't settled their debt and that they're returning from that pension for a little while and they can't even give up that internship that they don't need anymore, and that they don't need to make it possible for them to change the general tax law, so that the state can also write down all their claims that don't go anywhere, that these lands are being put into office. And on the other hand, anything you can do through HBOR to farmers, I primarily think here about cattlemen and milk producers, write off their claims and leave them in office because we do not produce 60% of the milk needed, and we are stimulating with one kuna and four limes right now to report a smaller production, a smaller quantity of milk sold and to achieve a subsidy from the EU. It's another thing that you can get the next election, which is that 5% of the insignificant VAT on milk you return right to the manufacturers, that they feel they're in some kind of focus. These are the people you didn't invest in, you don't need to hire them, you don't pay anything. They've been working 365 days, they're slaves to their occupation and their decisions to deal with agriculture. And if you show in that segment the necessary sensitivity I'm sure you'll be, you'll be remembered as government and you as minister and as a team that's done a real job. And on the other hand, I'd like to say that there's too much noise going on around the I.R.S.O. I think that this provision in Article 141 is also entered where you can view private, so current accounts, the savings accounts of entrepreneurs unnecessary because it causes one thing, shows one mistrust to entrepreneurs. You know that the measure that Italy and other European countries have introduced is that people report their money and tax it far less than 36% is clear here if it isn't money obtained by a criminal act. So what the colleagues on the left say, if it's a crime, then the money is taken away. But I would suggest not 36%, but 20% to report money. We scare entrepreneurs all the time. Those who had money from the last system don't dare invest anything because we keep scaring them from where you got the money. Now we're gonna push again and scare the entrepreneurs where you got the money to invest. I think entrepreneurs are the solution and the production of this current situation and you can help in that, and especially in this section, which refers precisely to food producers. That's it. We will support and pray that our proposals enter into another reading in the construction, development of this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5004	I thank my esteemed colleague Lackovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5005	Well, I would just like to say that I agree with my colleague Lackovic in his presentation, because he touched on the meaning of those classic problems, i.e. by pressing taxes that the state carries out against all small businesses. On this occasion, I would like to point out that, if tax is currently only 15%, which means that when foreigners, or foreign banks, telecoms or pharmacists extract profits from our country, they only pay 15% of taxes. I suggest that this rate is doubled to 30% and that in this way at least a small fraction of the money that is being sucked out of our country and in fact through which instrument we stick to economic slavery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5006	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. There's no answer. Thank you. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Željko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5007	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, we are talking about agriculture here, and why we always avoid key problems and two words are always kind of censored here, and these are two words of confiscation and nationalization. How can we move on when millions of hectares of agricultural land have been taken away from people who have never been returned? Where we're going to push the tax into the next 10, 20 years when we have total, that word dysfunctional. We cannot have a healthy tax system within a dysfunctional state that is institutionally dysfunctional. Today we were talking about tens of thousands of companies that don't have any employees. How one can write off his debt and how it is possible that in Croatia I do not have some law on the origin of the property. That's the key questions. And without the administration of professional well-paid people in the IRS, USKOK, police, etc. We're not going to create a state. We're dealing with amateurism here and we're putting a Band-Aid on a 20-save wound, and we're not gonna do that unless we solve key issues. And all those questions didn't start in the '90s but just before.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5008	I thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Glasnović, for the replica. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lackovic, I cannot agree with you in this part where you said that there is too much noise about the abolition of the independence of the taxpayer. However, it rises too little and we must all be very loud, because there are a billion reasons for this, a billion kuna tax frauds discovered by the taxpayer USKOK in the structure he's been in so far. And if you look at what's predicted in the proposal we got. It does not even state the powers that the taxpayers have so far. It clearly states that so far it has been the establishment unit of the Ministry of Finance responsible for the collection, control, analytical processing and exchange of information essential for taxation. The blueprints we got didn't mention any of it. So, not only is independence eliminated, but the powers they have so far questioned. So the noise we're making is too small, we have to be even louder because that way we'll make sure no one takes the state budget unpunished. And the thing that hurts most is when someone hits them in the pocket. And the moles they could do it for are in the IRS. And until tax returns were formed, nothing could be done, as information was being leaked to those who committed tax offences at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5010	Replica response, Agent Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5011	I thank you for the replica. My colleague Jovanovic, I don't think there has been a suspension of this state body that will deal with tax fraud, but I am interested in how much money is charged. So I'm interested in efficiency. If we're just finding out, we've got reporters, and they're researchers, and they're finding out. We know a lot of truths that don't need much disclosure, so nothing's going on. So, this SCOTT tax has been a lot of work done with virtual numbers, not real money, because I have no idea how much money was returned then, and such a repressive body with such possible political abuses actually scares entrepreneurs. So, I am an entrepreneur and now my private accounts will be liquid and savings and who you will get in Croatia to invest money if his private and savings accounts, which have nothing to do with his activity, will be made available to tax authorities. I think we're a repressive state. We should, however, let this entrepreneurial spirit that we have in Croatia develop, and then when the time comes, it should be fair and taxed. I don't think it's the key to the IRS, not the repression, but the fair tax policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5012	I would like to thank Agent Lackovic. The notice before we continue with the final words of the clubs is to the members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament – the session will be held after the vote. So it's scheduled at 1:30, but it'll be after the vote. The final word was also reported by the Living Wall Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5013	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here after three days we come to the finals of the first reading of this package of tax laws, so on. reforms. For us, it is a reform that has not, clearly and clearly shown, that this reform prefers singles from people who have or will have children to prefer foreigners to domestic people and people who live here and who will live here. It also showed that it prefers the rich, gives them greater benefits on apartments and real estate, gives them greater benefits on the purchase of cars, gives them greater income and we will not support this reform as such. Again, I stress "what is right behind the hill", and there is a big business in this law. It's probably all deliberately compromised so that we don't get to go into the details -- thousands of articles, 15 laws, and see what's all in there. It's about that, so it's about a write-off scheme of up to 40 billion kuna. Here we talked about some projections of 100 million if one item of VAT goes away or if some item goes to income, etc. This is 400 times the size of it. What's this about? When a claim is written off to these provisions, banks write it down as an expense, that's their first thing, an expense book, there'll be fewer profits that they'll have to pay to the state. After that, it will lead to a rise in deficits again next year to the extent that the country will again focus on new loans and new borrowings to the same banks. However, banks book this as an expense. But in collateral, so mortgages remain in off-balance sheet records. What does that mean? That means they lose their citizens, they lose their state, they get their banks. This is a reform made for the banks and for the rich. People may be credited, but the bank will be charged because that mortgage remains. That's not said here, and I've asked the minister three times so far who and by what criteria he hasn't explained, he hasn't said anything. A new 40 billion kuna disaster threatens us here. The last of these were pre-emptive settlements when the same similar ones were forgiven so many and so many amounts. Before that, there was a bank recovery. Obviously, every 5 to 10 years, we need our top entrepreneurs who at that magical time were transformed and privatized in whatever ways they acquired property. We must make it easier for them to forgive them like this. It is simply disastrous, catastrophic colleagues and colleagues that all these new settlements and all these people that have bought apartments for the last 10, 15 years, and even for many years, all of these new buildings, we will now introduce real estate tax. We'll ask them young families to pay more. We're still gonna cut them off from buying their first real estate. Pressure goes to those who can't stand it. The body from which our country should develop is being destroyed, and it is suitable for banks. We're not gonna support this. And the more and more I read, the more and more I am ashamed and afraid of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5014	Thank you, Agent Sincic. The second part of the closing word, MP Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5015	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As counterpart Sincic said, the Living Wall will refuse this tax reform for several reasons. The first is that at the beginning of her term, the government left completely off the wrong footing. Instead of changing the wrong model of the economy based on external borrowing and restrictive monetary policy, it referred to the parliamentary procedure one at a speed-based procedurally incorrect, illogical, and the most important is deeply unfair tax reform. It is about the fact that in Croatia today people can't live on the minimum, it is about the fact that every third child is poor, it is about Croatian citizens moving out on a massive scale for economic reasons, and the government has taken a measure that takes measures that are appropriate to banks and large capital. That it is so enough to look at the wage calculations that clearly show two tendencies. The first is that those who have salaries get even higher salaries and that much higher wages, and those who do not have enough, they get nothing or get crumbs. In addition, this government has been sworn after the election to encourage demographic measures all the time, but it is clear that the introduction of first real estate tax does not implement these measures but that anti-demographic measures are being taken, and also the calculations of wages show that if someone earns an average salary in the Republic that it is best to be single, it is best to be single. Each child, first, second, means a reduction in salary, and should be completely reversed. It is not right to increase the salary of 800 kuna MPs, members of the administration by two, three thousand kuna, while at the same time to citizens who come well and eight kunas, and three kunas that they get nothing. I remind you that Croatia is one point at a time. The Constitution of the social state and I remind the legislator of Article 51, you have it at your desks, which reads: "It is everyone's duty to participate in the settlement of public costs in accordance with their economic opportunities, the tax system is based on the principle of equality and justice." This tax reform has not reached this principle, and the question of whether this tax reform will be able to live in the form in which it was adopted. So this is not about resolving the Croatian economic crisis and the social crisis but about political agreement, the government's political agreement with banks that write off debt, but at the same time, citizens are not about to write off mortgages on real estate. We have heard among other things that the government is now in some delayed reaction due to remorse to subsidize interest on housing loans allegedly, but it is also a wrong measure because it is again giving budget funds to banks instead of giving directly to users. So, if you already want to give something to young families, then it would certainly be better to offer them construction material such as the case in Hungary than to again be given to banks to pay for their principal and credit, or to increase the external borrowing of Croatia that will inevitably lead to the rise of these negative trends and within a very short time to re-resion. Our final message to Croatian citizens is that HDZ representatives do not listen to it, they will just raise their hands as much as I say, this tax reform is tossing sand in the eyes of citizens, this tax reform will not allow Croatian citizens to have a better life, it will not solve the issue of public debt growth, it will not solve the issue of unemployment, it will not solve the issue of the blockade, it will not solve the issue of emigration, it will no longer encourage further tax evasion, it will encourage further mugging and hitting large capital and therefore it does not constitute a solution to the problem, and it will ultimately bring no good to Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5016	I'd like to thank Mr. Bunjec. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica of the presentation of the representative Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5017	Well, gentlemen, I'm just listening to my colleague and colleague say a very important thought, which is that we have a problem moving young people out of the country, and most often it's these people and people who are covered by tax protection at first real estate because young people usually don't have any property on them. You HDZ gentlemen probably have some real estate or whatever you buy that tax, actually. The current relief isn't helping because you have real estate on you. However, many young people do not, and that tax will strike them. I think it's your decision to make tax relief for young people who buy the first real estate to be abolished, I think it's a bad decision and that it will certainly detimise young people and I think the legislator went only to take a few dollars more, as they say, and less about how it's going to be for our citizens, and that's actually the continuation of the policy you're implementing, and that's why I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5018	I'd like to thank Agent Pernar. Replication response by Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5019	Thanks, buddy. We're testifying here to a great betrayal of voters. Prior to the election, it was sworn in a demographic renewal that the ministry would be established, that a thousand euros would be given, and now we see the opposite. 115 million kunas will be transferred annually to these young people and we'll still bring real estate taxes to the newest building, which is more recent, so let them pay. So let them pay. Now that they're tied up for 20, 30 years, we can give it to them now. Well... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5020	I thank Representative Sincic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5021	Chairman, you have violated Article 237. It's the Rules of Procedure because you don't keep order at the session. There's a promenade here, people talk loudly, they talk on their phones, you don't react at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5022	I thank you for your remarks, Commissioner Bunjac, from now on, I will keep an eye on who's answering his cell phone and who's walking, and then, as in elementary school, we'll make warnings and exclude him from the session, but thank you for your suggestion. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5023	Mr. President, also a violation of Article 237. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to ask that if you're already watching who's walking around the hall and who's answering his cell phone, to watch and who's got earphones and to warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-15-0.u5024	Thank you for your observation. I believe that at a time when all MPs agree that it is really necessary to introduce a code of ethical behaviour of parliamentary deputies that it will be very clear what it is appropriate to do in the constituencies. I thank you for the inability of the replica. I'd like to approach. So we're closing the debate. We'll approach the vote. What needs to be done first. Please determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make valid decisions. The first item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, First Reading, P.Z. No. 28. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax is adopted. Secondly, all comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The vote is over. I find that most decisions, mostly 78 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 28 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
