ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17909	And before I give my word to the Proposer, I invite you, therefore, to the ones who called in the breaks to register it. Dear colleague Goran Aleksic was first.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17910	Thank you, Vice President. I want to talk about a constitutional lawsuit that will soon be decided by the Constitutional Court within 2 weeks and about a rival lawsuit against two euro credits brought last week at the Municipal Court in Zagreb, organised by the Association "Franak".
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17911	Thank you very much. You got it. My colleague Sabina the Voice as informed as I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Please pause on behalf of the SDP club in order to discuss the escalating situation in the Parliamentary Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, or the pressures that led to the Committee's chairman resigning and that two committee members also resign from membership on that committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17913	Thank you. Dear fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17914	I am looking for the Vice-President on behalf of the SDSS Club to set up a memorial panel in Jasenovac containing the inscription "For Home Ready".
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17915	You got it. I'm a colleague of the Hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17916	Dear Vice President, I request a recess on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU to give details of the absurd taxation of foreign pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17917	Okay. Is anyone else answering for a break? The club of representatives of HDZ, a colleague of Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17918	... HDZ ratio to totalitarian systems. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17919	Thank you. You got it. That's it, we've got five reports to argue with. Continuation is at 9.45 p.m. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Before I give my word to my esteemed colleague, Alexic, I would like to thank St. Never, to our colleague Grumoji, to share our loins. I hope that they will be an incentive to work better and better quality and always think about not hurting each other and working in harmony with our own conscience. Thank you very much. Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17921	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say a few words about a constitutional lawsuit that was handed over to the Constitutional Court last year against the review of the Supreme Court in the section concerning the Swiss franc currency clause. The Constitutional Court will decide on the constitutional suit in the next two weeks, so I have to point out what the constitutional suit is really about. The constitutional suit required that the Supreme Court's decision in the currency clause section be annulled, as the decision does not comply with EU law. What's this about? The provisions of Article 267 have been broken. The Lisbon Treaty, under which the Supreme Court is the last court to which there is no legal remedy, must refer the previous EU issue to the court and has not done so, nor has it been explained in the audit itself why it did not. Second, the provisions of Directive 93/13 were broken where it was clearly and decided that the contractual provisions which were not negotiated were unfair, which caused a significant imbalance between the rights and obligations to the consumer, and the currency clause CHF which caused 50 per cent and more credit annuity in the Swiss franc, as well as the increase in principals, obviously caused the imbalance of rights and obligations to the consumer. This Directive is not applicable to judgment decisions. It is also not applicable to the EU judgment of the C26/13 which has been clearly and ordered that the contractual provision is not understood if it is only grammatically clear but is only understandable if the contractor is warned of all the consequences and any risks that a contractual provision may have in the future. Therefore, all this has been violated in the review of the Supreme Court and in the judgment of the High Court of Commerce and, therefore, the constitutional action is required to repeal this review of the Supreme Court. If that decision of the Supreme Court is annulled, it will mean that the procedure will have to be carried out again in the currency clause section. And if, in the end, what we claim is that the CHF currency clause was unlawfully agreed, that it was harmful in that case that all debtors who had agreed loans with the CHF whether they had paid off their loans, whether they had converted their loans on the basis of the initial interest rate and on the basis of the starting rate as if they had been kuna credit. And all loans will eventually have to be recalculated into kuna loans. That's one thing. So I expect the Constitutional Court to be at the level of its task. We can't prejudge his decision, but I hope he'll be at the level of his mission. The second thing, last week, in the organisation of the Franak Association, was a rival lawsuit by two euro debtors, so from a loan with the euro currency clause at the Municipal Court in Zagreb. The appeal requires the return of overpaid interest amounts due to illegal interest in euro loans. Therefore, as CHF loans were agreed on illegal interest rates, illegal interest rates were also agreed in both euro loans and in kuna loans agreed before 1 January 2013. The two debtors, if the claim is adopted, will receive about 70,000 kuna overpaid interest plus a tight interest totaling more than 100,000 kuna for each debtor, and loans amounting to 55 and 50,000 euros. These are the debtors Ivan Matas and Miroslav Poje, and the lawyer representing them again is Nicole Kwiatkowski as well as in the collective process. What's been broken in there? There is a breach of the Consumer Protection Act, where it is clearly stated that the contractual provision which has not been negotiated is harmless if it has caused imbalance of rights and obligations to the consumer. The Law on Mandatory Relations has been violated, as the Law on Mandatory Relations clearly defines that the contractual provision, i.e. the act must be determined, and it is only applicable if there are data n and on the basis of which it is determined. And finally, the collective verdict has already ruled that such interest rates are illegal, so we expect victory in the trial. And lastly, I have to say that yesterday I met the President of the Supreme Court of Croatians, and I gave him some credit. Today I met the President of the Constitutional Court of Separovic, so I hope that these two meetings are actually very significant and I expect that this will actually be a very good thing for the debtors. Let this encounter be symbolic for our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17922	Thank you, too. The second debate is SDP's Club of Representatives and distinguished counterpart Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Surely here we can today, and we could talk about many important topics. One of them is certain and setting up a memorial panel with Ustasha markings in Jasenovac, and even more so soft and shy Croatian prime minister's reaction. But for this very reason, we have initiated a meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and we will express our position on this important topic there. What I would like to talk about today is a little bit of what I would say, unwanted activities and unwanted situations happening in the Assembly Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. So it is a committee that has the full legitimacy of this Croatian Parliament and not long ago, at the beginning of this year, this Croatian Parliament almost unanimously supported the report on the work of the Committee for 2014 and 2015. And almost all MPs can even say freely, everyone, in their debate, agreed that we could finally be happy that after a long period of work that I had not worked out, we actually have people who led to this, that is, this conference of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education that finally does its job and we agreed that the role of this extremely important committee which is the most advisory and expert body in promoting moral and ethical principles and values in science and higher education should be strengthened. But here you see, a few months after what happens? What happens is that history repeats itself, tries again to obstruct and stop the work of this Assembly committee. Why? Probably because members and board members dared to question the scientific work of one of the numerous scientists in the Republic of Croatia who, in the meantime, became minister of science and education. And we are witnessing today that as a result of the numerous political pressures, Mr Silobrčić resigned as president of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, and that two committee members resigned from their membership, because they were pressured, because they were obstructed, because they were sent from the Ministry of Science and Education by the emissaries in the image of the assistant Minister of Science and Education who attended the committee meetings and who thus pressured them quietly on their work. Is that okay? Yesterday we witness the address of the Rector's Assembly which held a session in Mostar, which sends a message to the government and begs her to dismiss members of the entire board, members of the entire board. Imagine, the board elected by this Croatian Parliament, whose members have been in office for four years, gave them this mandate from the Croatian Parliament. The fact that two members resigned and Mr. Silobrčić is no longer the chairman of the board does not mean that the board does not work, but the Croatian Government, or this Croatian Parliament, has to hurry up with the resolution of these board members, and the Croatian Government does everything possible to propose new members to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible so that the board can continue its work. Like the Croatian Parliament, are we really going to allow us to be blackmailed by a narrow click in the Croatian society that does not correspond to the Committee on Ethics in Science? So we testified to this five years ago, five years ago, again, the first thing HDZ wanted to do? Through the amendments and additions to the Law on Science and High Activity, he wanted to shut down the committees and put down competences to universities and universities themselves. It didn't work. Thank God it's not. Then the board died, he didn't work for five years, he's trying to kill him again today. If that's your intention to shut down this committee because he dared to question the scientific work of the Minister of Education, then make it clear and loud to the people. If not, protect the dignity of Croatian science and protect the stand in defense of members and members of this committee and we as the Croatian Parliament react and must provide them with uninterrupted work, we must protect them from any type of pressure and allow them to keep their work high, dignity of Croatian science and the credibility of scientists in scientific life, but if you want to and in political life.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17924	Thank you. We move on to the third debate, it is a distinguished colleague Boris Milosevic and SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17925	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDSS Club requested a break because it believes that as a parliamentary party, the party that advocates the rule of law and the rule of law must react to the setting up of a monument of the panel containing the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready". The memory plate is set practically with the memory area of Jasenovac. It means the area in which the concentration camp was located, the area where it was reportedly killed according to the latest lists held by the Jasenovac Memorial Institute, 83 thousand persons. So 83,000 victims, who were victims primarily because of their nationality because Serbs were killed because they were Serbs, Jews because they were Jews, Roma because they were Roma and Croats because they were not at the will of the Ustasha regime. Jasenovac is a symbol of human suffering and suffering and a warning to us today that such a thing cannot and must not be repeated. We today, when Jasenovac is mentioned, must always and in every occasion clearly condemn the crime committed in Jasenovac, try to give Jasenovac victims dignity and dignity. By doing this when we allow them to post the sign under which they were killed, we actually step on the victims. It is not disputed that representatives of associations, representatives of defence associations, have the right to place a memorial plate for the dead members of their troops, but it is not disputed that "For Home Ready" is the Ustasha greeting. The attitude of all of us, by definition, the character of the Ustasha regime and NDH is clear and judgmental. It was a criminal, Quislin formation, based on blood and racial laws, created exclusively by the will of Nazi Germany and fascist Italy, and the official Ustasha greeting in that country was ready for home, which is enough to disqualify it forever. It is also true that this greeting is found in the statute approved by the competent authority, so the state of the Republic of Croatia, however, this greeting is not legitimate and does not justify it. That fact and that information are only warning us that the state did not respond in time but allowed and missed something like that. Is that a problem? The problem is, the problem can be a bigger problem if it doesn't work out. The Croatian Parliament has always expressed the views of Croatian peoples and other citizens in the Republic of Croatia consistently and consistently represented the principles of pluralist democracy, equality, respect for human and civil rights and freedoms. Based on such views, the Croatian Parliament cannot remain silent on the condemnation of such phenomena. Conviction of totalitarian regimes is not enough to condemn the criminal character of the Ustasha regime. Therefore, we believe that the competent national authorities should exercise control over the statutes of associations which have in their coat of arms home signs ready and seek to remove such inscriptions of the same coat of arms and of all records.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17926	Thank you, too. Next debate of the Club of HNS and HSU representatives, distinguished colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17927	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I signed up for this debate on behalf of our club because the government of the Republic of Croatia missed the correction last week of an injustice committed against pensioners who are receiving their pension from neighbouring countries. According to the tax administration, there are double criteria of action. Namely, if for example. Someone receives 2,000 kuna from Croatia and receives 1600 kuna from BiH, from Serbia or Slovenia then the tax administration adds up the two facts and that the decision to release such a citizen is tax-free because it is below 3800 kuna in total. However, if someone receives 2000 from Croatia and 2000 from Slovenia, that is not the case. Namely, at that time 2000 kuna from Slovenia is treated as a second income and not only pays taxes from 3800 to 400,000 kuna but is paid tax on the total amount of 2000 kuna, meaning such pensioner or pensioner pays instead of 24 kuna taxes, pays 240 kuna each month and by tax administration solution. Thus, 10 times over the amount of its tax that belongs to it so that only within the 2nd month could it meet the requirement to repay more contributions paid and to return that amount to it. I wonder if, with taxes, there are large players in the Republic of Croatia, owners of trade chains or some large companies, whether they charge taxes like this or only for ordinary mortals. What's even more annoying than that is that I have pointed out this in my individual debate on the final proposal of the income tax law, that I have also invested the amendment that this is definitely, this problem was definitely eliminated because the amendment was saying that there was a billing of such a tax, so that two incomes from non-permanent work were added together and that a solution was then issued and that the tax was paid only in difference, so to an amount greater than the non-taxable. Unfortunately, the director of the tax administration here on Friday said I couldn't treat it any other way than another income. See the new law that passed on Friday, receipts based on the non-performing work in paragraph 2, point 2. are considered pensions made on the basis of previous payments of contributions for compulsory pension insurance. In Article 39, the second income is made on the basis of the receipts which are not considered as receipts established on the basis of the non-permanent work referred to in Article 21 of this Act. So in these two laws, it is said, in these two articles of this law, everything is said, that this must not be calculated in such a way. I also wanted to install the technique into an amendment which, of course, like all amendments, rejected because it was easier, because otherwise it would have to wait for a cabinet session to adopt an amendment which is very unprofessional, very incorrect and I would say very exploiting to the citizens of Croatia who have relatively small incomes because these are not rich people who can wait for tax returns by next year. So I ask all those who have written to me so far and have had problems like this to renew their memos to me because I will definitely send everyone as a agent's question to the minister as long as he doesn't solve it and he can solve it if he doesn't settle it by law, it can be settled by the Minister of Finance. So, please, I say once again to all the citizens that neatly renew their memos, each, I will definitely individually send as a representative question to the Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17928	Thank you, too. And the last debate for 5 minutes is the discussion of the HDZ Club of Representatives and distinguished counterpart Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17929	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what we asked for on behalf of the HDZ Club to determine ourselves and once again I don't know which time we show our position, HDZ towards totalitarian systems. I repeat it here and say that HDZ condemns all totalitarian systems and communism, and Nazism, and fascism and what we can say neither of these systems has brought any good but only blood, only sacrifices, only destruction and it is clear that we must have that attitude and that we should repeat it. According to the Quislin production of an independent state, Croatia has also been defined several times and very often. Indeed, this is one moment in Croatian history that we would like to forget, but we can't, there's a lot of blood, there's a lot of victims behind it, and that's why it's important that today, many years later, we have a right and a good attitude towards what is really the one we're talking about today judging. I think this attitude should be said in any case that our Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, made it very clear that there is a need to regulate legally the sign that is actually in the service of these systems and that has actually come out of these systems. And that's what we're going to support here at the HDZ Club, and we're going to clearly agree that our government and our club, and everyone here, we're going to be involved in making such a law on a good toleranceal atmosphere where we're going to respect the natural arguments of the profession, the arguments of historians, and we're going to produce such an act that will actually lead to one of these behaviors where we actually have to make sure that we don't insult victims that are consequences and that are created after such systems. As for this record in Jasenovac, I want to be clear about it. I would like to say that this is how HOS troops participated in the Homeland War and those people who, whose names are carved on the plate in Jasenovac, they gave their lives for this Croatia, for this Croatia where we can now decide freely in this Croatian Assembly and make decisions about the future of the Croatian state. I therefore think that this should be seen in this context, that they should not be associated with an independent state of Croatia. These people gave their lives exactly for Croatia that we live today. And if we go by monuments around Croatia then we will see that there are actually many others who insult emotions and some other people, for example, in the village of Bor, we have monuments that are actually monuments to Chetnik dukes who are monuments to white eagles which can also upset people living in these areas. So I think the most reasonable initiative is that the legal sign is arranged and it's up to us to actually discuss these topics in one tolerated spirit and, first of all, to turn to what we're doing today. We have before us the Public Procurement Act. The law is extremely important for the functioning of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. There will soon be a budget for the Republic of Croatia from which we expect to raise Croatia's macroeconomic indicators to a higher level. I therefore think that these topics should be approached in a reasonable, rational way, and not that we actually do not need senior officials such as one US official to convince the world that there is no phase in Croatia. That is indeed unnecessarily unnecessary. I think we can recognize it ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u17930	Thank you very much and fellow Bosnjakovic. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We continue with the work of our session. Let me just read you what we're gonna do and then we're gonna take a break. So today we continue to work with: - Final proposal of the Public Procurement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.37. The applicant for acts shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material is delivered in boxes, the attachments to the report are not multiplied but are located on the Croatian Assembly website. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure, when setting the agenda, have adopted a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in accordance with the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Economy, and you received reports at the session. Information that amendments have been submitted by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21590	Thank you very much. Dear MPs are ahead of us with a proposal for a Public Procurement Act. This law, on the one hand, fulfils the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to take over the legal property of the EU. But what I hold even more important is that, through this law, public procurement is being built into the experience that we have gained so far in the conduct of public procurement procedures. I am therefore sticking to this law ensuring the flexibility of public procurement procedures, simplifying the formal procedure of public procurement procedures and reducing the costs incurred by the public procurement process imposes on businesses participating in public procurement and finally new provisions proposed here increase the possibility for entrepreneurs to approach the public procurement process, which means that the competition that should then ultimately result in the result for public procurement authorities themselves in terms of reducing the amount and amount of costs spent through public procurement processes. A few essential traits of this law that I would like to highlight this occasion. The most important or perhaps the first among these essential features is the introduction of the most economically favourable offer as the only selection criterion. So far, the most economically desirable offer has been an option, but the analysis has shown that it has only been used in 2% of all public procurement. With this bill, the most economically favourable offer becomes mandatory, which means that the source of the winner that I express myself in public procurement processes will no longer be based on the price as the sole criterion but will be based on a series of criteria that include the price, with the price importance of the price in the selection criteria being maximum of 90%. On this occasion, I would like to stress that the price criterion is set at 90% as the upper limit, which means that 90% is not mandatory, but the contracting authorities will be able to determine in the nature of the tender according to the nature of the tender how important the price is in the structure of the total criteria, which means that in the case of individual purchases and according to the expert assessment of the contracting authority it is possible that the price has a lower share in the structure of the criteria for selecting the most favourable offer. In this way, it is intended to ensure that public procurement providers can also ensure the best quality of the products or services they supply, since so far, in public procurement practice, there have been examples of where the minimum price criterion has been used in a certain way or been exploited in terms of which it has resulted for public contracting authorities insufficiently in the high quality of the products and services they have obtained. The second essential feature of this law is the introduction of a European single procurement documentation. The European single procurement documentation significantly reduces barriers for entrepreneurs who approach the procurement process because the European single procurement documentation replaces the obligation of entrepreneurs to apply for public procurement procedures at the very moment of their application to be accompanied by a number of forms, certificates issued to them by state authorities, which serve to demonstrate their formal capacity to participate in the competition. In this way, we have a situation in which entrepreneurs from the state must collect a number of certificates in order to re-deliver them to the state. This is of course expensive and for certain entrepreneurs is a barrier to participation in public procurement procedures. The European single procurement documentation is therefore essentially one form through which entrepreneurs who approach public procurement will give a statement that they meet formal conditions of the type of impunity of administration, certain registration in the court register and similar data, and that entrepreneur who is selected as the best will, of course, have to contribute to the original documentation. This, as I said, is cheaper for entrepreneurs, and it is clear that in the case of an entrepreneur chosen as the best offer unless he is able to deliver all these formal documents that the public procurement procedure will not be repeated, but simply the following, or the other in the process, will be requested to provide such documentation. However, I would like to say that, in fact, European single documentation represents one transitional solution in a certain way because the law introduces the obligation to connect different registers from which these are collected, from which entrepreneurs collect this documentation of electronic integration of these registers so that all public procurement participants essentially have a line of access to all these documents. The deadline for connecting relevant databases such as those from the IRS, court register, craft register, criminal records is the end of 2018. This law introduces as a third essential feature the obligation of prior consultation with interested economic operators on the documentation. It is a procedure which obliges contracting authorities to make the procurement documentation known to interested bidders before the procurement procedure is officially started. The period during which such documentation must be made available shall be at least five days before the date of the formal initiation of the procurement procedure and shall be longer. The purpose of this preliminary consultation is to reduce the possibility of misuse of procurement documents and the possibility for all interested parties to point out the quality of the documentation, point out their observations and thus minimise the risk of favouring certain economic operators through the adaptation of technical specifications. Next, of course, a small number of appeal proceedings are expected before the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. Based on this proposal, we are approaching the objective of full information and automation of procurement procedures. All communication and exchange of information between the contracting authorities and entrepreneurs shall be carried out by electronic means of communication. The only paper document that will remain an obligation after the adoption of this law to be delivered by the contracting authorities is bank guarantees. In all, it is being delivered by the contracting authorities in paper form as bank guarantees. In all, we believe that this law brings a significant reduction in the administrative burden on entrepreneurs, since, for example, the introduction of a European single dossier reduces the administrative costs of accessing public procurement processes by around 83%. It will also reduce the prescribed level of guarantees that bidders must give for the seriousness of the offer from the current 5% to 3% of the estimated value. This proposal balances the practice relating to guarantees for the orderly execution of the transaction and guarantees for the orderly execution of the transaction and guarantees for the orderly execution of the contract shall be prescribed at a maximum of 10% of the purchase value. The fees for complaints are also reduced in the sense that the fees for complaints are arranged in a different way, so that so far the fee for complaints of ten thousand kuna is reduced to five thousand kunas for purchases of up to 750 thousand kuna, while with purchases worth more than 750 thousand kuna, it remains ten thousand kuna. Administrative fees for the appeal are also abolished, and a fixed fee is also imposed for the appeal of the documents of 5 thousand kuna. The introduction of this newspaper, i.e. by prescribing a fixed fee for a complaint on a five thousand kuna procurement, puts a stronger emphasis on the need to legally formulate the documentation. This is the measure we are holding that will be decommitting in order to avoid the quality engagement of the contracting authorities during the public debate on the documentation phase. I also hold that it is important to point out that this law also adopts a paper that strengthens the legal position and the possibility of acting under the Law of the State Commission for Public Procurement. In view of the fact that the basis of this proposal, the State Public Procurement Commission will be able to examine the legality of the whole procurement procedure, including the stage of the preparation of the dossier, unlike the current situation where the State Commission was able to react only in phases or phases and for the reason for which the complaint was lodged. In all, it is a comprehensive law, a law that regulates important processes through which about 40 billion kunas of public money are directed according to the available data. It is clear that the full and effective application of this law will require great efforts in education, education of public contracting authorities. The Department for Public Procurement of the Ministry of Economy will work intensively next month. To this end, a set of EU budget resources will also be available to support these activities, which will support the drafting of procurement procedures to make it easier and more efficient to apply the criteria of the most economically favourable offer. In total, we estimate that the adoption of this law means a direct reduction of costs for entrepreneurs of 42 million kuna precisely through the different simplifications and removal of the non-taxable burdens that this law adopts and which I have partly spoken about and through the reduction of complaints, by reducing the value of guarantees, by reducing the volume of documentation to be submitted. On the other hand, the law also has the potential for a better and more efficient management and control of costs created through public procurement by contracting authorities, since it opens up the possibility of better access for entrepreneurs to public procurement processes, and through this greater competition we expect positive effects on reducing the costs of public procurement itself. On the other hand, I would like to draw particular emphasis on the provisions concerning increasing the transparency of public procurement, which are particularly focused on simple public procurement, whose value for goods is less than EUR 200 000, or for services of less than 500 thousand kuna. These purchases are now carried out by simplified processes and such provisions have been introduced to flexible public procurement. This option will remain under this law, however, the obligation for all state authorities to make the rules on how to implement these public procurements public, the obligation to make public purchase plans, as well as the obligation to introduce orders and contracts that are ultimately concluded in simple public procurement processes. In this way, increased transparency aims to reduce and minimise the separation area of public procurement, which is essentially worth more than 200 and 500 thousand kuna, and then, by cleavage, they eventually try to achieve themselves as simple public procurement. Through these provisions on transparency, the possible implementation of such procedures will be fully visible and, of course, this will reduce the motives for a possible attempt to avoid the application of this law by splitting public procurement. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21591	Thank you, too. The statement by Minister Dalic sparked a reaction from eight MPs. The first among them is Honorable counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21592	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I volunteered for the replica because it is actually the only way to say it as president of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy since no competition for external members has been opened, so the council cannot work and it is a subject that would be on the agenda of the National Council. We are witnessing that this law has important and anti-corruption effects and that its good application will guarantee and that the risk of corruption will be lower. The devastating data we discussed here when we had a report from the state commission is that Croatia is among the 3 most corrupt countries after the European RAND Institute survey on the European Parliament's demand and that, according to their assessment, we lose 2 billion kuna in public procurement. I therefore appeal to the minister that since a new action plan is being prepared to combat corruption for the next two years that the ministry she is headed is actively involved in the adoption of all those measures that will mean consistent implementation of this law especially in the area of education because I am afraid, I am for having the most economically favourable offer, not the cheapest one that has been in 99% of cases so far. But knowing our good ones under the quotes of habit, I'm afraid that this process will be carried out, the most economically favourable offers because we are prone to a variety of dissensions, so I believe that education will contribute to making these defects as little as possible. I therefore really ask that this action plan be adopted as soon as possible, which will be part of the strategy and action plan to combat corruption in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21593	Do you want to respond, Minister, or will you be back in line later? Okay, thank you. The second replica is a respected colleague, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21594	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Dalic, it is certainly a comprehensive law as you have said and, of course, it should be supported because every law that leads to the improvement of public procurement procedures, which we see as complex, I think I have seen somewhere in the framework of a college in a professional study under a semester. So a very extensive material. What should be commended is certain certain provisions especially when we talk about the most economically favourable price. But what worries me is the implementation of this law. Article 197 of this Law states that the contracting authority will appoint an expert commission. And about that expert commission we just know that it's professional, we don't even know how many members they're going to have, they'll probably do it with a rulebook or some kind of... By internal act it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't even know what professional means anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have, I think, a colleague of Jovanovic said that the damages of 2 billion kuna were estimated. I think that's a lot, a lot more. You see, the European Commission said that three-quarters of the companies according to Eurobarometer survey believe that specifications are always set for one company. 45% of bids occur one, one only bidder, means 45% of bids. So what will certainly be a problem in practice, and especially when we talk about municipalities and cities, it will be necessary and education of these people, it will take some and resources to isolate that we really have professional people out there who understand matter that can then make a quality decision. And at this point, we have professional people who call them doctors, you know, this is what doctors and percentages call them, and there are those who are a little more skilled, so they're called primarius doctors. Because they're very skilled at taking... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in public procurement procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I'm sorry that the inspection surveillance was thrown out of this law. The explanation says he was difficult to implement. However, whether or not the Central Public Procurement Office will be able to control all these procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21595	Thank you. The next replica is a esteemed colleague of Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21596	I would like to thank the Vice President and thank the Vice President for his presentation. I'm responding to your exposure, part of the presentation where you said it was expected to reduce the number of complaints from the state commission. Namely, my experience in health care related to public procurement of particularly capital equipment was so that the defacto became a national sport in health care regarding all appeal procedures on the state procurement commission where we have specialised law firms dealing with the destruction of public procurement procedures all in order to determine the interests of certain suppliers of capital equipment especially in radiology, however, what results in patients being denied new modern equipment at the end of the day, although the funds in the state budget that then fail in the fiscal year are secured. These procedures last 6 to 8 months, not rarely over a year and simply enter into the next fiscal year when the whole process must then be repeated and then it collapses. However, we now have the situation that a law that grows from 100 articles to 400 articles is a question and mine is related to the competences of professional services which in ministries such as hospitals can carry out within a very, very short time period of all the provisions of this law and whether their incompatibility and inability to implement certain parts of the law itself, which will be discussed more during individual discussions is the brake, in fact, to re-enter the apparatus they need for daily treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21597	Thank you, too. The 4th replica is an esteemed colleague, Marko Vedligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21598	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, in principle, of course, we need the law on public procurement, but I've already made the bill unfortunately complicated the whole procedure. Here may be a few figures, we have 452 articles, 12 contributions to the old law that had 180 articles, 7 additions and 8 sublaws. It is only 6 months after the law has been passed, and we all know that the law is in an emergency procedure, so we will have big problems especially with those of low administrative capacity who will need a lot for education. Also the issue of drawing up documentation for competition without these implementing rules i.e. The rules of which I repeat once again are only planned within 6 months of the date of entry into force. And one more thing that I will briefly point out in the replica is actually the issue of introducing the most economically favourable offer as the only sole selection criterion means in public procurement. In some ways, the lowest price criterion, I think, was actually sufficient. We will have major problems, since it is already moving with 1.1. with this procedure, the most economically favourable offer, and perhaps there should be a consideration that the time limit for introducing the most economically favourable offer as the only criteria for choice and public procurement should be extended until at least the adoption of a new rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21599	Thank you, too. Fifth Replicated colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21600	... I would like to say that any change to the Public Procurement Act only makes sense if the procurement process is such that it is transparent, and it will only be transparent when on a central portal it means on a web site that can be called public procurement.hr all possible public procurement and state and private entities, only when it will be, and not that I don't know by some newspapers, it's published either on some portals or I don't know on the news. [[Specially enabled.]] So there has to be a central place for everyone. And only under such conditions can it be possible to have a transparent public procurement procedure. I wonder if Mrs. Dalic's proposal suggests whether or not she's meant to do such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21601	Thank you, too. The sixth replica of the esteemed colleague Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So from what we heard from the MPs who spoke before me it's obvious that the prevailing perception in our public is that public procurement is at the heart of corruption in the public sector. In many innovative ways, it is done either to please an bidder, whether or not to accept dumping offers, and is subsequently annexed. In many ways, it is non-transparent, the result of everything is the loss of citizens, the loss of citizens' trust in their own institutions. And that's why this law is important, so it's important that he just help restore that citizens' trust. He was done as much as I could notice three conflicting governments were doing him, so Milanovic, Oreshkovic and now Plenkovic. I hope we can come up with one complex quality law that we can all support together. But aside from the need to restore citizens' trust, it is very important that the law has one component of social responsibility, and not only according to the management of public money, so it is also proposed that I imitate the criteria of the most favourable economic offer, but also that it has one social responsibility for workers. In other words, the offer cannot be accepted and the tender cannot be won by an offer that violates the rights of workers either with the title of non-payment of salaries, either from the title of non-payment of pension or health insurance. Respect for the law and social responsibility is at the heart of this law and I ask that it be taken care of and I will go with the amendments in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21603	Thank you. The seventh replica is distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, this new law is certainly welcome in view of the results we have seen in the State Commission's 2014 public procurement control report as well as in 2015. Compared to these, 2 billion kunas were less public procurement achieved in 2015 than in 2014. The reason is to cancel out 42% of the competitors of their choices and re-procedures that affected the loss of these 2 billion in public procurement. We see for ourselves that public procurement is a segment that causes the attention of all our citizens but it can be alone unless there is synergies between different administrative areas of primarily construction, spatial planning and then environmental and nature protection and a number of other factors affecting public procurement. Public procurement as such in such novels where the most economically favourable offer is certainly going to allow greater use of European funds and large infrastructure projects that have already been annulled in a few dozen cities and are returning to public procurement. We believe that this law will make it faster, better quality choice of bidders and that it will happen. What worries me is that by reducing from 5% to 3% of the guarantee for the seriousness of the offer, there will be an increase in the number of professional complainants who report to create problems and to complain about complaints or who knows what kind of reasoning they themselves have. The same way that the negotiation process can happen in the same way that it is not precisely defined what will be negotiated, which in the documentation and documentation is made by projectors, and in the community with the client, there may be problems that the anti-corruption bodies are talking about, as well as all other media dealing with public procurement many times.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21605	Thank you. Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21606	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice-President, Minister and I will say that this claim of yours will be improved by the fact that the State Commission will practically expand its action again and will go from the very beginning not only to my court to help solve the problem faster, but will slow everything together and create even more problems. And you also mentioned the inability to split public procurement as the possibility of certain corrupt activities. Well, I'm not even sure here that it's good in the context of projects that should be financed from EU funds where we literally have huge projects, I'm talking about anglomerations, I'm talking about group water lines, where I think it would be much better if it were to go to a variety of several wholes, and that it would be possible for domestic companies to report to such competitions. Because in this way, in principle, domestic companies are almost unable to answer. It was also said here in replicas before that it would be good to introduce and enter into the tender documentation a certificate of paid salaries for workers. I also think that this would be good, because in this way they would eliminate the gray economy and practically clear the space so that competitions made by contracting authorities could be reported primarily and exclusively by those who regularly pay taxes and who regularly pay their salaries to their employees. I am generally afraid that this 452 article law will not be too practical.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21607	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, we will be contacted in a five-minute debate by prominent Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21608	... corruption. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] The Public Procurement Administration participates in these activities, and the plan has its own measures so that it fully agrees with MP Jovanovic that this law and is an important instrument for the control of corruption and its essence, its essence, through strengthening the transparency provisions, is just contributing to this goal. As regards the expertise of committees and issues as to how the expertise of the commission is determined, and as we know it, I would like to remind myself that there is a process of certification of public officials to conduct public procurement procedures, which means that always one member of the commission must have a certificate, and that certificate is obtained after 50 hours of education, after which the exam is passed which is free, which is organised by the Ministry of Economy and this exam can pass if it has 75% of the accuracy of the response. And then in the next three years, such a person who obtained the certificate still has to pass an additional 32 hours of education. So today we have a system that builds, builds and strengthens the expertise of people who conduct public procurement processes and this process will of course continue. Clearly, this process is not perfect. However, the more people go through education and certification processes, of course, the stronger their professional capacities. With regard to the time period of application of the most economically favourable, the criteria of the most economically favourable offer. What I may not have pointed out in the opening statement, the application of the most economically favourable offer becomes mandatory 1.7. Contractors who feel ready can carry out this procedure by virtue of the laws and provisions of the law as soon as it enters into force. However, mandatory application for all will be 1.7, and it will be during this 6-month period that further education will be carried out, the process of preparing instructions, procedures and general preparation not only of those organising the public procurement process but also of the Ministry of Economy will be implemented, meaning the Public Procurement Administration, the State Commission, the State Office for Central Public Procurement and, of course, all the obligors of the application of this law. This also means that there will be no legal gap in terms of the validity of the rules, as the existing rules will remain in force for the next 6 months. With regard to the transparency of the public procurement process, we have today and the dominant public procurement process is now being implemented by electronic means, which means that the electronic public procurement advertiser is visible and is on the website of the National Journals. National newspapers are the most important partner of the Ministry of Economy and Public Procurement Administration in public procurement. It is on these websites of the National Journals and in the Register of Contracts that the rules mentioned above will be published, as well as contracts on how to implement simple public procurements. So, we already have a system today where all documents and registers related to public procurement are available on public procurement websites and will, of course, strengthen it. And the Ministry of Economy just has a website called www.public procurement.hr. through which the Public Procurement System Administration shall inform all users and shall essentially maintain a system of public communication on the characteristics of the public procurement system and of the way and of all the procedures involved. I'm running out of time at this point, so I'm gonna pick up another line later to answer questions that I haven't been able to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21609	Thank you very much, Vice President. This exposure caused three replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21610	Dear Mrs. Dalic, I feel deceived by you. I feel deceived because I asked you a question very specific and simple. So I wasn't accusing you of anything but asking if the new Public Procurement Act would put all public procurement on one website where they could be easily searched. Unfortunately, instead of answering my direct question, you chose not to answer me or just ignore me. However, in this act, you have not only ignored me, but all people who are interested in the transparency of the process, whose not transparency of hundreds of millions of kunas disappears from the state budget, I would dare say billions, and that is why ultimately the citizens of this country are systematically raised taxes and imposed on those weakest social categories, and because of these non-transparent processes, the same money that is being taken from the citizens is being poured into their hands, it is known who. And so I would ask you once again to answer my question, meaning not as the last time you ignored the question, but to answer my question this time, whether the new Public Procurement Act provides for the publication of all procurement tenders on a unique web portal where all bidders will be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21611	Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21612	Your Honor, Agent Pernar, I have not ignored you, but you have studied your cell phone while I have answered your question. And as for my answer, I will repeat it again. On the web pages of the National Journals page www.nn.hr when you go to that site, which I invite you to do then you will see the icon and the electronic public procurement advertiser and through that icon you will be able to see today. Therefore, we do not need this law, all public procurement tenders that are published, contract registers and other information of interest to both the general public and those involved in public procurement procedures. As regards the Ministry of Economy and Public Procurement, information in the system rules, instructions and a lot of other information is available on the website www.public procurement.hr, maintained by the Ministry of Economy, Public Procurement Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21613	Here's the answer. We're moving on to another replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21614	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Dalic. Although I'm replicating you now, I think this is very important, I shouldn't even be replicating you or you should be answering because what I'm saying comes out of the domain even the Ministry of Economy. But I think counterpart Djakic was talking about how this law can be implemented if it includes many other resistors. To return to this part of what I was about to say, I agree with you, there is a commission that is defined in Article 197 and one of them must have a certificate. However, if we want to choose the most economically favourable offer then other members of the commission must have certain competences, certain specific knowledge in the area from which they will choose. If this is an area of construction, if this is an area of some other technical profession, someone needs to pay. Today you have a situation that in the municipalities the Commissioner chooses commission they have that classic daily 170 kuna, and in this case they will make very important decisions. They've made important decisions now, but it's easy to say this is the smallest number, you know, this is the biggest one, this is the smallest one, and I'm standing behind this smallest one. However, he will now have to stand behind something that will no longer be so easy to justify for the 170 kuna daily, and the second day he can have Andrija... come under the window and say, sir, you favored that and that company. That's what I'm talking about. So there should be education, maybe even do and systematize that engineers or people who deal with the state profession get a certificate that they can participate in public procurement procedures, of course it will cost again, there should include the Chamber of Engineers because they are also engineers and projectors and supervisors and can then be involved in that part of public procurement procedures. I see you've spoken to the members of the association, the president of the community associations or whatever, but I'm surprised what they slept there so I think. Today you have the head of a single management department that one man is a secretary where he conducts your public procurement, he doesn't have ten people there. He can put a couple of people on the board for a living.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21615	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21616	I wanted to say the warnings you point out and the questions you raise, I think it's justified because we are all aware that strengthening some institutional capacity of quality and the ability of people who generally work in public administration, especially those who carry out these very serious tasks is a permanent task. However, I would also like to say that the rights come with obligations, and here in our legal order is simply a procedure that is suitable for the countries of our level of development and that enables contracting authorities to ensure the best value for public money. Unfortunately, we can't and I don't think that this would be the right way to adapt the law to the least quality part of the system in an institutional sense. I'm aware that there are small municipalities you mention but that's related to some other problem we're also discussing. And for your safety and information, this certification and this education include different professions both on the client's side and on the bidder's side, so, of course, when they are being held today for construction works, large procurements, and when the lowest price is at stake, it is clear that people who are expert in the measurement of the tender or understanding of the professional understanding of its content participate in the commissions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21617	Thank you. Third replica, distinguished colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21618	Well, it's very short actually. You're right when you say there must be, of course, at least one member of the expert commission certified. And that's the problem, as my colleague, Sagar, has spoken to the smaller units of local self-government. Perhaps an idea, one proposal, we have issued a public call in the town of Križevci and we have invited all citizens depending on which professions and profiles to register whether they want to participate in expert commissions of public procurement procedures. And when people applied, we made this list, and every time a competition is launched according to their profession, we had educated them before, of course prepared for it, and every time someone about citizens, so they participate in the expert commission, and in this way they get a certain transparency and in some way a certain trust. Here is one of the proposals that can be used under the existing law and is not prohibited in this part of it, perhaps it can continue to be made up so that these people who are chosen are also well tested and even sent to education to obtain a certificate and can work part of the time, of course. What's the biggest problem in public procurement about it, I said the same thing the other day, two, three sentences start with designing, and we projectors choose to compete. And there may be perhaps the biggest problem of those corrupt elements that are later dragged all the way. That's where we should find some kind of solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21619	Thank you, colleagues. And the reply to the replica of the Deputy Prime Minister... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21620	Thank you very much. So here I really thank the Croatian representative for sharing this experience which is worth knowing for us in the ministry but I think it is especially worth knowing and beyond, especially among the units of local self-government because this example described seems to me a really great method to strengthen the transparency of the public procurement process. I would agree with what you have said that, to a large extent, when it comes to construction works, the issue of the problem may be in the way it is designed but that is exactly what I want to point out is that unfortunately, the Public Procurement Act cannot solve all problems and is not some universal mechanism for removing all the problems that exist and that are then reflected in public procurement. But also when we talk about ordering design services or in general other services, I think that there is a significant contribution through the mechanism of the most economically favourable offers, because precisely such services, services which, and generally the procurement of services is an area where I think quality criteria, benchmarking criteria, benchmarking of all other forms of ability of potential designers can actually now much better choose quality bidders and avoid actually situations that possibly unskilled bidders have received these jobs at low prices, and then perhaps by under-quality work and under-quality service fulfillment produced further questions for customers and possibly inadequate performance results.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21621	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister Martini Dalic. This is what we have now exhausted the debate in the opening statement. Would the Committee's presidents perhaps like to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, esteemed colleague Dražan Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21622	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honors Minister with Associates. I would just like to briefly report that the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament held at its session of the 7th session held on 28 November and 8 November discussed the proposal for a law on public procurement with the final draft of the law tabled by the Government of the Croatian Parliament. We find that the text of the final proposal for this law contains a statement of compliance of the final proposal with the legal acquis of the EU resulting in full compliance with the primary and secondary sources of EU law. After a debate with the majority of votes 7 for and 3 abstentions, we supported the adoption of this Act and we do not object to it being adopted in the emergency procedure. What I'm saying is, the law is really big, it has over 450 articles and we have submitted 29 amendments here as a committee. All these amendments are mostly nomotechnical in nature and none of them enter into the content of the law itself in order to change something material in it. When a work like this is a complex law, it's impossible to actually not come to such interventions. With the fact that I have to say, here's to apologizing to everyone and we had one tipfeller in the numbering of the amendments themselves, so we delivered the correction. Once again, the Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21623	Thank you. Now we move to a club debate and the first club is the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia, the distinguished colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21624	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished ministers with co-workers, MPs and MPs. Here in these 15 minutes let me make some observations and a very concrete proposal regarding this Public Procurement Act. We from the party Change Croatia think it is an extremely important area, it is a source, a great source of corruption, it is a great cost for Croatia's state budget, an estimate that about 2 billion kuna disappears each year, i.e. the value of the purchased goods is too high for 2 billion kuna to talk about the costs that stop for the state budget. So if for the past 10 years we know from the most modest estimates that 1.5 billion to 2 billion are needlessly spent means from public funds then we see that it is cumulatively 15 to 20 billion and imagine that there is no place for public finances in Croatia today? We wouldn't fight for a billion two, but we'd be in the primary surplus and that's significant. But this bill is certainly going to represent a certain improvement. We're looking at three segments. Although it has a very large number of articles and pages, which is really many, and it is difficult to follow and should usually say that everything that is too much is known to represent problems and a source of potential misunderstandings and, of course, failures. In this context, we believe that under a) possible financial savings are possible in the total amount of more than 2 billion kunas at the country level in one year, under b) that organisational reforms by institutional public procurement bodies are necessary, and therefore we believe that we should and propose that a merger of the Public Procurement System Administration at the Ministry of Economy and the State Office for Central Public Procurement and the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. It would certainly be more effective if it were in one place. And under c) that the legislative changes in the world are in line with EU directives as recently as possible. I, we analyzed the data for 2014 we didn't have these latest, we just heard that the total amount of public procurement in 2015 was 1.6 billion kuna exactly smaller than in 2014. But what I want to focus on is what's so-called. Bagatile purchases. To remind you of those who do not know about the bagathell public procurement are considered all of those, we consider all those purchases up to two hundred thousand kunas, so according to which the client does not need to carry out procedures that are normally passed for so-called. large purchases. The purchases of small values are up to 500 thousand kuna, applied as you know about the works. I will focus on the continued exposure to bagatel public procurement, which in 2014 amounted to 10.5 billion kuna cumulatively. I repeat 10.5 billion kuna of 42 billion kuna that year. It's a huge amount, and please, if we call something adventurous and they're involved in the total purchases, then it means that it's a very important segment and that we should pay significant attention to it. What we do then, if we add this to the purchase of small values, then we come up with the next nine billion kunas and therefore the bagatelling and low-value purchases were cumulatively 19.7 billion kunas and 48% of the total public procurement in 2014. And look at this, 48% of total public procurement goes through one procedure that is practically loose, so you can say as some say that this segment of public procurement is actually secret procurement. Not literally in that sense of secret procurement, but it can be done in a way that I can be more specific, maybe the expression is too rough. But how do I solve this problem of baffled public procurement that I said amounted to about 10 billion kuna? We have spoken to top public procurement experts in recent months, indeed with people who have worked from the beginning and worked in public procurement and have a huge experience in this. We propose here, Madam Minister, an automated system of electronic procurement, a public procurement called reverse electronic, reverse auction. What is an electronic reverse auction? Here to be simple and understandable we have a client it is a ministry or college or some court and a tender for the purchase of photocopier paper A4 of a particular weight etc. In the system of computers and all have computers the competition is called e.g. It's open for a week, everyone opens up and sees what they're looking for and who's looking for. It begins, the auction is a price delivery, one bidder, the supplier brings out his price, the other also sees it on the screen and everyone sends their prices. So we had an auction where bidders compete. When the 7th day of the auction closes, we have the highest bidder. And his system automatically detects him chooses him as the best bidder and is automatically sent to him by order for the goods for which the tender has been called. Now, look, somebody's gonna say, so how's that gonna work? The one who gave the best price, the lowest price and did not deliver the goods because he could not at that price enter the so-called. The black book of procurement and its system throws him out. Next time he logs in anywhere he can no longer learn into the system for 3 years. So we're suggesting that it be 3 years. On the other hand, if he did not pay taxes to the state, the company as a supplier or has some other problems with him, he also cannot access the competition. So, as you can see, this system is actually fantastic. We can say that I'm not exaggerating with the expression he would revolutionize the public procurement system when we talk about the baffled supply, the dunging work in the work that he was doing once again, I repeat 10 billion kunas. On 10 billion kunas that would handle this automated system, about 2 billion kuna would be saved, and we can imagine what savings of 2 billion kuna for the Croatian state budget would mean only on a dung public procurement every year. So we're willing to offer this knowledge, this proposal, and by the way, this isn't some discovery that we've come up with, so I say this discovery first in the world. No! No! Well, it's exactly that kind of procurement system, it works in the EU, and let's say Italy has a very well-developed system, the most successful one called Konsip Italy, and this model has been well-managed. So, according to this pattern of how companies work, and it's very effective in that sense. In this proposed way, so it would be done. This part would also be placed on the market under allegations of grey public procurement, i.e. problematic particularly public procurement, as it is the standardised goods which may as such be the subject of auctioning. Because only standardized goods can go to auctions, and photocopier paper must be standardized goods. This would fully control the amount of 10 billion kunas spent on bagatel public procurement. Public procurement procedures would be simplified up to the amount prescribed by the directives, with these amounts being significantly higher in EU countries than in our country by directives. But okay. We don't have that kind of standard and we can understand that. Imagine what else is good here? Imagine how much the number of complaints will be reduced on the basis of adjudicated public procurement. It's going to drop dramatically because the system is automated. What consequences are further. Therefore, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement, which is now covered by complaints, would make a huge part of these potential complaints not simply be. So you see that this is an extraordinary solution, and this modern technology gives us the opportunity to do it. In this context, we believe that the introduction and acceptance of this model of electronic reverse auction into this law, and in particular it means that it will develop the implementation of this in order to be truly beneficial for Croatia and to have very good effects. What else do I want to say in this context? I would also like to point out that this would lead to the integration of the Public Procurement Administration and that is what we have proposed at the Ministry of Economy and the State Office for Central Public Procurement. We should choose one of the models of EU member states, I listed this Italian, perhaps another within the EU that works better. Maybe we'd be even better off. That, professionalizing the job, would reduce the number of complaints, complaints. A small number of people working now on public procurement control would be needed, new e-procurement technologies, e-catalog, e-burst goods would be applied, etc. In this context, we think this is a very good proposal and would lead to savings of at least 2 billion kuna at the annual level. And that part of the bagatel public procurement would really be put under control. And there's something else I want to point out here. When I talk about legislative changes, it is necessary to create legal preconditions for let's say for the better placement of domestic goods that we produce, which are the subject of public procurement. How should we take care to protect domestic economic operators from measures that are allowed by modeling other countries' practices, such as in the EU. Well, you didn't see German cops drive Fiat or French to drive Alpha Romeo, Poland to consume apples from Chile, etc. They're already eating their own. Austrian hotels on ski resorts consume, spend only, meaning Austrian food. So here I am talking about the smart measures that can be allowed by the EU directives, which are used by other countries, which in the public procurement system would be very helpful for our economy. And here's to conclude, so let's use the proposal, so the party "We Change Croatia" suggests specifically because we came here to change Croatia, to make concrete proposals, and this is indeed a very concrete proposal. And I ask you to submit an amendment to this law to include what is truly the achievement of modern technology, the practice of the EU, which will ultimately simplify the procedure of public procurement, the bagatel public procurement and what is particularly important what will have a favourable financial impact, and that is about 2 billion kuna only on the purchase of bagatella goods, means small values up to 200 thousand kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21625	I thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first is a replica of a respected colleague, Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21626	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lovrinović, therefore your idea of how you brought out here seems quite excessive and, as far as I understand it, could indeed achieve results in practice. Because as we're talking about exaggeration, and it certainly isn't exaggerating, bagathele losses if we're talking about 2 billion kunas. Because we wouldn't be having problems with our teachers right now, with our doctors asking for salary increases, if we had those two billion kunas to raise our salary, to have those two billion kunas in our budget. What must have been a problem, and the law thus defined that a single head of local self - administration or head of another body had sent three offers to the addresses he wanted and requested feedback. I think three offers was enough. In this case when more, when you open transparently to everyone the possibility is certainly a much better solution. But what we still need to look out for now I didn't understand it until the end. You see, when we talk about centralization of public procurement, sometimes it's not a good solution. If you in Slatina have to order toilet paper from Zagreb because there is a public procurement system. Can't some domestic producer local, domicile access to such a competition, can't simply be competitive to be honest, then it's a little bit of a problem for individual local economies. Of course, it's not about this law of public procurement right now, it's about the generalization of regional structure and everything this law can't cover. Here I am not to bother my colleague Dalic, pardon Minister Dalic, here I ask you, Article 302 says "if two or more valid offers are equally ranked according to the selection criteria public order will choose an offer received earlier." At the time of informing what we want here we have the Central Office for Digital Society, how you comment on this item and whether it should be in law'
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21627	Thank you. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21628	Dear Representative Sagar, I'm glad you noticed that our proposal is of quality that it has exceeded and thank you for that. We're sitting here together in this House to lead this country with our common strengths and intelligence, and we're going in a good direction and we're making savings, and as you said, two billion kunas that we can save on the bazaars as they're called, and on the macro level, these are huge acquisitions, I repeat ten billion kunas. It will lead to said I revolutionized the process, he was open, he was ultimately transparent, he was visible to everyone, but perhaps you weren't because I couldn't be clear to the end, he wouldn't be centralised only in Zagreb. It can be called anywhere, who means out of it are institutions of public, local self-government, public enterprise, but anyone who's interested and today we all have computers he sees everything. So in that sense, I think I've now explained the notion that it's not centralised procurement in a way to be in one place for all but whoever it is centralised in a way that everyone can approach, so it's democratic and it's ultimately transparent. So here we are when we discuss in front of the Croatian public, the citizens who are watching us right now, I really think this should be accepted. Here I hold in my hands the material that we have worked out together with the experts, I offer it to you on behalf of the party to change Croatia, and professional help to really improve because the new Public Procurement Act would welcome us all, reduce corruption in Croatia, bring great savings to the state budget and what to say rather than simply to be a blessing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21629	Thank you. Replica number two colleagues Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21630	Thank you very much. My colleague Lovrinović, I agree with a large part of your debate, but today we have the opportunity to discuss this new Public Procurement Act professionally. And there is always a question that is often heard here, which is that on the one hand we want to centralise all the public procurement law that would favour certain small, medium or larger entrepreneurs in the districts or in some areas where we live, and on the other hand, we are going to centralize it at least in part of the industry or in small value purchases, so that we all have the right to participate in these purchases where, in some way, one such desire to help those small, medium-sized areas in some way arises because in Zagreb probably someone from Zagreb is going to be cheaper than some services, materials and all that we need in relation to someone who lives I don't know on the island of Gorski Kotar or elsewhere. We've been through a lot of debates here about the Public Procurement Act, and we've been through the time when there wasn't a law, so let's remember the 1990s beginning of the two thousand and the first law, and I think we've learned through all the laws so far that people have been trained and that we've now come to a certain level where we can say that we're ready to implement perhaps the best solutions that come from the EU, but also the ones that we've come to on our own. And this law goes in that direction to take one of the biggest parts of it. Is he perfect? He's not perfect, he'll never be able to avoid a human factor. A human factor can always make a mistake and can do something that is not ethical, which is not quality, which is not moral and no law can prevent it as perfect as it is, as transparent as we are if that individual or more of them who want to deal with it are the only or goal or interest. And we can't run from it, it won't solve this law either. But I think it offers a lot of good tools that can be a prevention of exactly that kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21631	Thank you. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21632	Dear Representative Boric, as you noticed, my 15-minute stand-up speech was fully constructive. I have had a very concrete proposal and I think that in this sense we work together to achieve better results. But I'm convinced that if the bagathelic procurement continues to go on as it goes, no matter what we call the most economically favourable price, that the public procurement mechanism in the bagathel procurement segment he won't give any significant different results, no matter what we give up the most favourable price and take a weighted approach to certain other variables and segments. But this 100% non-transparency approach of a closed system where everyone has an insight where instead of three bidders you have 33 or 333 he automatically eliminates any possible corrupt actions. And in that sense, I think that in the process of developing the laws of promotion, we do it to simply reduce, to go over what would happen if we don't adopt this, so in a year, two of us see that it's not good, there's a possibility, we have a technological platform, we just have the technological opportunity to just have the will to accept this model, and that would be a really top-of-the-line solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21633	Thank you. She answered for a word on behalf of the promoter, prominent Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21634	... A few words of clarification, in fact, of the law itself, of what the law applies and what we already have today. [[Speech is not enabled.]] When we're talking about the so-called. simple purchases because it's simple procurement... It's not a big deal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Croatian Parliament decided somewhere in 2013 I think it will give public contracting authorities flexibility in carrying out purchases of up to 200 thousand and up to 500 thousand kuna. That decision we all made together at that time to seek the users of public procurement, means also the contracting authority and the bidders that such flexibility is necessary in the process itself. In the very process of simple procurement, I mean not just getting goods. In the process of simple procurement services are supplied and works are obtained. This now leads us to this proposal for an electronic reverse auction. The first thing I'd like to point out is that we have an electronic auction today, we have a system of e-surgery, I'd like to remind you all of it. We have a system of e-possessment. Today, according to the existing solution already available to all public procurement participants, it is possible to choose the auction procedure in the manner in which interested producers will collect in the open procedure. And then all interested producers will inform and say that an electronic auction will be held through the e-indication system from that day to that day in which they will just point out the price as a criterion and the last one to make the purchase. What I'm saying is that we and in the existing system have a technological platform available to be used for the needs of electronic auctions resulting in some other and additional electronic platforms not being needed, but we need to use those opportunities that we already have. And this is one of the great challenges of applying this law and generally applying the public procurement process to the opportunities we have and using them in the way that it is possible and in the existing system, and it will be possible, of course, in the system that we are proposing here. And that's why we're actually talking so much about education and all the work that's been going on for a number of years, which will continue to work and to make use of all these opportunities. I think that we are all aware that such effects on the education of users and on the education of public contracting authorities cannot be achieved overnight, but that is why it is important that we have a stable system that takes care of the legislative and legal framework of public procurement and that we also have users who understand this system. Unfortunately, this is why it is not possible to think about the proposal you put forward, which is to unite the public procurement system administration, the State Commission and the Central State Public Procurement Office, because it is three institutions that are doing very different jobs. The Department for the Public Procurement System at the Ministry of Economy is tasked with building a public procurement system, educating the system, educating users, doing sublegal acts, monitoring the implementation of public procurement systems but for all public procurement participants. So the work of the administration is systemically, it refers to all the participants and the orderly and the bidders, so they are the place that regulates me to express the rules of the game. The central public procurement office he represents only one user, he does public procurement for the state service as someone does in the local self-government unit and the commission is simply a second-degree body Thank you. [[Intruder Jandrokovic: Minister, time is up, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21635	Please. We've got two replicas, the first distinguished colleague is Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21636	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I still have to bother you, see Article 302, paragraph 3 and read again: "If two or more valid offers are equally ranked according to the selection criteria, the contracting authority will choose the bid received earlier." When we talk about her being admitted, it doesn't have to depend at all on the bidder or it can guarantee that he did it before the offer. So someone can decide to take this offer later. When you talk about information, then you should certainly avoid such provisions, better be, throw yourself a gamble so who gets it. Or let them call the two of them for auctions and let them lower the price to some limit. I mean, there's probably a lot of things in the law that can't be regulated, but you should certainly make sure that if you want to carry out the information, we live in a digital society that then this kind of thing should be avoided or I might be here, if you explain it to me maybe well, I don't understand it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21637	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21638	Yeah, I didn't comment on that. This problem that you are talking about in reality does not exist because all offers in the public procurement process are received electronically through the aforementioned e-public procurement system in the National Journal and each offer receives a time stamp. The contracting authority will receive a response from the system that will tell him exactly in an hour, minute and second when his offer is received. So if this problem arises which you are talking about each of the contracting authorities has relevant, clear and unbiased information from the system when its offer is received, and in case two offers are found that have just been received in the same second they say my colleagues that in the open negotiation process such tenderers will also call for competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21639	Thank you, too. Second replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21640	Dear Madam Minister, you said that the electronic auction is already working, and then the question is, how are we having problems with corruption, or that we at least have this problem in that segment, but we probably don't think about the same auction because you're a doctor of economic science like me, at least six types of auctions have of standard, Dutch, first-price auctions in a closed Wikri envelope, an auction with a lost offer, double, etc. So does this reverse auction. So it would be better if we didn't have time, I don't have time to discuss it technically in detail, so here you have just refused the possibility at all, I haven't figured out whether you're talking or accepting this. I think everything needs to be discussed these are certainly important things for Croatia, I can bring huge savings. And here I call once again on good faith to consider this approach because it is extremely transparent, so it allows all the technology computerized that we have to apply. It will wipe out literally corruption in the procurement work, which today amounts to 10 billion kunas, and I simply think we should discuss all this and come up with a common solution without any other thought whatsoever. And I think that the arguments and the suggestions of the solution we can really do together a lot in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21641	Thank you. We move to a second debate by the club of representatives that is the club of HDZ representatives and distinguished counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21642	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so this Public Procurement Act is a major step forward and after this tax reform that we adopted last week in the Croatian Parliament, according to the presented programme by the Government of Mr Plenkovic, is being sent to the parliamentary procedure and the Public Procurement Act as part of the Government's 2016-2020 programme, but above all it is a reform of public procurement as an important part of the more effective functioning of the public administration itself, but also a clear and transparent fight against corruption that many have always liked to talk about. We want to keep track of each segment of the government's programme and we have clearly written in the work of the public administration and legal certainty in Chapter 6.4 of public procurement that we want to achieve by law? And we want to develop a public procurement system as an important part of the fight against corruption and the construction of an open and ethical public administration. The government has pledged to improve the public procurement system to ensure an effective transparent system through two objectives of further developing the public procurement system and preventing corruption in the public procurement system. And for that, this law has offered its tools through certain articles. We think it's important to be on that government programme line because it's the only thing we can measure from the beginning to the end of the term of office of any and this government that is currently there. I think that we are saying today that we are really professionally, in quality discussing this issue, this law is and is not at large highlighted and next, in terms of the amendments to the laws itself, it is important to note that in the working document of the European Commission under the heading "A report for Croatia with a detailed review of prevention, correction of macroeconomic balances" of February 2016. On page 8 of the report, it is clear that there is a proper regulatory framework for public procurement in the Republic of Croatia, which is in line with the requirements of relevant EU legislation including new EU directives to be transposed by this new Public Procurement Act. It is also noted that the institutional structure appears to be appropriate but that some institutions responsible for public procurement are facing insufficient administrative capacity, high labour fluctuations, the need for additional training, and especially at the local level of lack of experience. I think this is exactly the law set in terms of solving these goals. The government of Mr Plenkovic, proposing this law, set the following objectives, the first and main objective means a major change in the regulatory framework for public procurement. It's this law. What do we want with that? Transparent and competitive public procurement that will create business opportunities and indirectly affect economic growth or simpler solutions to more efficient procurement of works, jobs, goods and services. If the system is simple, if we can be easier, if we are not harassed by various documents and unclear procedures, then we believe that many businessmen are willing to participate in public procurement procedures. This main objective also has its general objectives that come out of the law itself and the reform itself. The first objective of simpler and more efficient public procurement rules for contracting authorities and economic operators, the second objective of ensuring the best value for money by respecting the principles of transparency and competition, the third objective of ensuring electronic access to all relevant information in the work of electronic public procurement, means greater use of electronic tools in public procurement as the most important element in the fight against corruption and fraud. The fourth goal is to encourage particularly small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in the public procurement market, which accounts for 12% of the Republic of Croatia's GDP, which is 18% in the EU. As a result, we can compare this law to the law we had so far, which has been in force since 1.1.2012, which we have already changed twice in this House. It's got 452 legal articles. The first is the law that came to this House, which was made by a new model, i.e. In accordance with the unique methodological nomotechnical rules that we also adopted in this House. It has 10 chapters and 10 contributions. We think he's really big and he's offering a full public procurement reform. When we talk about changing the regulatory framework for public procurement, we should say what we have heard today. The total value of public procurement in 2015 was over 40 billion and 500 million kuna. The basic question arises whether we should be more interested in managing the state more effectively with such a monetary resource? I think we'll all agree here and say that we have to deal with it even more effectively. Because if we can move faster with less reason to file a complaint, if we can deal more effectively with the appeal process then we have the right to hope for economic achievements that are greater than the previous ones. Because the only growth in investments that can make this bill possible means GDP growth, and then income growth in all budgets from local to state level. What brings us the new Public Procurement Bill we've heard from some exhibitions and I'll look back on some of that news. The economic most favourable offer as the only criterion for selecting offers means the concept of the best value for money. It shall be determined on the basis of the price or cost by applying a cost-effectiveness approach. This may include the best price and quality ratio. By prescribing the criteria of the most economically favourable offer as the only criterion for selecting an emphasis, it is placed on obtaining quality rather than at the lowest price. We have heard today that so far the lowest price criterion has been prevailing even though this second part, means the economic most favourable offer but is used in only 2% of all public procurements that have been in the past periods. One small example. We have a school or a gym or I don't know a kindergarten that costs 10 million kunas per client's estimate. We can get 3 offers a, b and c. One bid 9 million and 850 thousand kuna, another offer 10 million and 150 thousand kuna. And a third bid of 8 million and 900 thousand kuna. We're all in agreement, and we'll agree that now we could only choose a C offer. Very rarely I say in 2% of cases we'd appreciate something else. What can we do now under this law? There is competition and offers and offers b if we are ready to provide additional money that we lack, and they are greater than the assessment itself. We think that such a criterion allows more or more or more of those interested entrepreneurs to appear on public procurement. By new law we heard 90% can be maximum just criterion of the lowest price, which doesn't mean it can't be 50, 60, 70 or 80%. We are already in certain segments of public administration and we have tried some weights such as in the competitions we have spent on concessioning state fast ferry lines where the lowest price was not the most important moment in which someone would get a line or be competitive. There were many other criteria that allowed someone to approve such a line. In terms of this economically advantageous offer, the HDZ Club will also offer an amendment that goes towards including, as a criterion, the most qualitative agricultural products in certain areas, and, if I say, getting rid of them right through this part of the weighting and that they are not avoided in terms of school supply, kindergarten, hospital, meaning all those institutions that need to obtain a certain type of agricultural product of high quality or in that area. And I think that's something I say and this law is without a problem, I say can solve or bring. At least 6 months from the entry into force of this law will leave time to adapt to all stakeholders and in the system and that is good, because so far we have certified people who have dealt with the area of public procurement. This is particularly important for the local level, and it is especially important that we explain it well through sublegal acts, given that they will be in a position to assess the effects, i.e. the criteria that individual contracting authorities will put on so that we do not come under what mostly leaders come under, and this is under a certain type of investigation why someone put this and that, and why it is not something else and that is what will remain a single question, a questionnaire on how to solve it effectively. We heard everything today and from the Minister about the introduction of a European single procurement documentation. This is certainly a major step because, for example, only in part of the validity of the evidence, we had a deadline that was unfavourable, for example, a statement of impunity or a confirmation of the Tax Administration should not have been older than 30 days, so that made it binding on the bidder to produce documents as a rule for each of the proceedings they participate in every few days. We think that's the part I'm saying is getting rid of. Full information and automation of procedures makes it easier and cheaper for entrepreneurs to prepare offers by connecting public authorities' registers to an electronic public procurement advertiser is assessed as a developmental measure of the public procurement system. When we talk about some other news, we have an end to the obligation of e-signature on the offer that has so far proved to be an administrative barrier that has often deterred investors from offerings themselves. What's important is that we mentioned a cut in the cost to entrepreneurs. The reduction in administrative burden for companies is more than 80%. Now most of the burdens are put aside in the overall cost of a particular procedure. The obligation to meet the ESPD forms for economic operators shall contain an administrative cost which shall be 83% less than the amount they have so far paid. The public procurement market is about 40 billion kuna a year. This measure encourages stronger involvement of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the market. We have a reduction in the cost of guaranteeing bidders from 5 to then 3 of the estimated purchase value. The new proposal also provides a guarantee for the orderly execution of the contract of a maximum of 10% of the estimated purchase value. A centralised procurement plan and contract register are introduced in an electronic public procurement notice for purchases of values equal to or greater than 20 thousand Croatian kunas. As regards increasing competition, establishing a stronger link between the number of tenders received in public procurement and savings procedures, i.e. the relationship between the estimated value of the procurement and the final amount of the public procurement contract shall bear witness only to some data. If the public procurement market accounts for 12% of Croatia's GDP, according to the 2015 statistical report, the total purchase value was 40.5 billion kuna. If you have one offer at that amount you have absolutely no savings, if only one offer has been made in all these procurement procedures. If you have three bids at the same amount, you will have savings projected savings somewhere around two billion kuna. If we increase the possibilities for more offers, if you have five possible savings on that part, they're about 2.75 billion kuna. Our goal is to cut these 40% through law enforcement with only one bid in the next two years to 30%. Another novelty, a prior consultation obligation with interested economic operators on the draft part of the procurement documentation. There is an opportunity for local leaders as well as the heads of state themselves to pass all information that will appear in the procurement process before they go public with all interested or possibly interested entities, to respond in time when the procedure takes place so that there will be no further problems or possible complaints. This obligation allows all professional economic operators to make their observations and proposals to supervisory authorities to provide insight into the draft documentation and enables contracting authorities to address deficiencies without sanctions. As regards increasing legal certainty in public procurement procedures, there are still some measures that arise through the law, it is certainly the introduction of a single ten-day period for appeal in all proceedings, then the reduction of the compensation for regret from the current legal solution prescribes the lower amount of the fee of ten thousand kuna for purchases of estimated value up to a million-and-a-half kuna. The proposed newspaper currently sees a minimum fee of ten thousand kuna reduced to five thousand kuna for purchases of estimated value up to 750 thousand kuna. Administrative fees of 70 kuna are abolished on appeal and it saves somewhere at the level of the year about 90,000 kuna. It should certainly also be mentioned that the powers of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures are strengthened, but that responsibility for administrative disputes is transferred from the current administrative courts in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka to the High Administrative Court in order to bring the solutions to a level playing field, i.e. in order to balance the solutions that have been brought by the courts that have so far been different in some cases. We also have the standardisation of the documentation itself and what is important in the end, and we are going to talk a lot about it today, the administrative burden is being reduced to the customer's side. The savings provided for under this law shall be estimated at an amount of around 42 million kuna per year in the part relating to the preparation and delivery of various certificates The HDZ Club will support this law in its adoption. [[Intruder Jandroković: A fellow Boric has run out of time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21643	Thank you, too. You have three replicas. She's a real respected colleague, Marko Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21644	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, you have positively shown yourself on this legislative proposal. And we at the Most Representatives' Club also think that all the stakeholders who participated in his work really did a good job. And we believe that this legislative proposal will certainly improve public procurement procedures and make them more efficient. However, I believe that the key to public procurement is not in the law itself. So the law itself explains the matter of procedure, in my opinion, is the key to the success of effective public procurement precisely in those procedures that precede public procurement, which is an effective planning of the needs of analysis, the preparation of project tasks, the preparation of documentation, and I think that all this is happening, and all the losses of public money are happening in these processes. Public procurement itself is a matter of procedure and this law certainly helped greatly in that part. However, I believe that what is very important, which is that all the contracting authorities pay one due attention and respect to the departments themselves in public procurement within their systems because I think that's the key to efficiency, so I wanted to hear your opinion about it and especially about how much it takes to invest in public procurement education.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21645	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21646	Thank you very much. counterpart Kristic, I also thank you and I think former Minister Panenic has also worked on this document and I think it is clear that a document that simply is a complete reform of the public procurement system has arisen. And what is to expect, here are the transitional and final provisions in terms of education some articles of this law come in the middle of next year, some at the end of the year, some in 2018 and have given a deadline precisely for education especially in part of the most economically favourable offer as one of the most important criteria of choice of offer. In order to obtain such an offer, it is clear what I was talking about is also the obligation of prior consultation for interested economic operators on the draft part of the procurement documents. There is an expression of every head of any founding part, whether local self-government, regional or state-level to examine the market, to see what can be obtained on the market from what we want and then in the description of the items, whether they appear and the specifications to be in the sense that they are spread to economic operators that can compete in that part to be possible and feasible, which then brings certain savings. So one previous consultation is a good entry into the public procurement system itself and, of course, the government and also sublegal acts will have to be more clearly what I said, to determine that we do not enter into a place then called red and should not enter that space, and there will be a really great responsibility on the leaders from local to state level. And it won't just be so simple to translate this into terms of what we've had now, and we've heard it today, this is the cheapest and we choose it, and then we've seen all the problems with the cheapest or smallest offers that have the lowest price.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21647	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21648	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the club, you have rightly praised the law in the part where the decision is made on the basis of the most favourable, economically favourable offer. I must say that we are, that the state administration already has a ten-year experience with determining the most favourable offer on the principle of the most economically favourable offer. We worked together at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, when we passed the Law on Public Line Coastal Maritime Transport in 2006 and thereafter the Regulation on the conditions and evaluation of the criteria for granting concessions to carry out line coastal maritime transport. And already 10 years ago, the financial part, the economic and financial part of the offer was defined by 50% and the remaining 50% defined the technical criteria of the offer. In the end, it also allowed such a law, and such a regulation allowed it to contribute to Croatian shipowners because it was also one of the criteria for carrying out public line coastal maritime transport, as well as for the safety of navigation that enabled Jadrolinija and other Croatian shipmen who had already had experience in carrying out public coastal coastal transport. So, I believe that the state administration will adapt very quickly to that, and all public contracting authorities as well as sectoral contracting authorities, to this criterion, and that it is simply right and to support this approach which I am saying is already 10 years ago in a particular segment of public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21649	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21650	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, that's right, we, I say, were already 10 years ago when we set out to concession all state fast-board and ferry lines and ships, headed in this direction of weighting and which amounted to even 50% and we see the result of this means 15 new ferry in the fleet of Jadrolinia, several ferrys new in the part of private boaters, almost all of the catamarans of the newer period in the part of the boat that maintain the speedboat lines. Why? Because it might have been cheaper to get a new boat and show up for the competition than to offer a lower price. So we went to the quality of transportation and passenger safety. Such things could happen in all other activities, they could have been in one different form so far, with this law now putting the most economically favourable offer in the first place rather than the lowest, as it has been so far, and all have managed in some way to cope with that lowest price, although there may have been solutions and others other than the most economically favourable, I have often heard a remark or suggestion that it might have been best to reject the lowest and highest bid and leave that medium that would have been the most economically favourable then, however, it did not happen. Now we have this possibility that through various different criteria in the section that can go of 90% means prices and 10% of all other criteria that will appear at a particular public tendering or public procurement. Let us determine for ourselves what we want to achieve and what our general goal is. There is a great value of this law but we will need a lot of learning, a lot of certified people, experts who will be able to really do it quality to avoid entering the area of doubt and then it goes all the way in the wrong direction and most work for the commission, for the State Public Procurement Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21651	And the third replica of the esteemed colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21652	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Boric, you have expressed one dilemma, i.e. the opinion that there is a concern with local leaders who are therefore responsible for public procurement procedures, but I think that this is done with all public procurement leaders and that in principle it will probably happen, perhaps as far as I realized that people still go on the cheapest offer because they are the cleanest. Because in one atmosphere such as the government in the Republic of Croatia will definitely find it difficult for a local leader or a public contracting officer to venture into determining the most economically profitable offer, since there will certainly be complaints and complaints and never know how it will end up on the Board of Appeal. And it is important for each head to carry out the procedure as quickly as possible, to complete it as quickly as possible, and to start doing those works or to supply what was the subject of the procurement procedure. The time ahead, I constantly warn of it is the time of use of European funds, especially infrastructure projects. These time periods are limited. And there is simply a danger that such competitions will fall, that they will repeat themselves indefinitely and that money will generally fail. The speed of the law itself is actually the most important thing right now. I've been through a variety of procedures, often I've never been actively involved as a local leader in it. But I have to say that so-called. threshold, those instructions for public procurement procedures for non-EU countries that it was the simplest to conduct public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21653	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21654	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrg, what's clear from this law is that it's human potential, i.e. The human factor of the first factor and of this law as it has been for all of us, we need to clear that up. So there is no law perfect that will remove the part that we all possess as humans, the possibility of error, the possibility of intentional error, the possibility of going to a place where we shouldn't be but the law has been trying to bring it down to a minimum over the past 16 years since the first legal frameworks for the area of public procurement appeared. And with every legal framework we've made progress. It is not controversial and today to conduct public procurement is much easier than ten years ago, much more effective than then. However, there is that area of doubt and me, what I said in my debate only worries that, for example, the system of persecution of BUSKOK and DORH entered the area of interpretation of the leader and his powers in the sense of whether someone should have done something or ordered or done something, and following that he earned something in terms of the indictment or anything. So the question is whether anyone can put in... or into criteria what he feels as leader should be achieved in his space and will then justify this law and say it is by law and please get away from it. So it has to be clearly resolved through the regulations or regulations that will come out of this law in order for people to. at the lowest levels that may work and most of these purchases were sure to do as prescribed by the law and not to have different interpretations. I think this law says a big step in terms of reforming the area of public procurement and we're all going to be learning in the next few years based on this law how to get something most effective for a certain amount and on the market that I'm telling us here in our environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21655	Thank you. This concludes this part of the debate. The next debate is the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's Club of Representatives, distinguished counterpart Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21656	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister of Associates, colleagues and colleagues. So a lot is said in this first part, and I always come from the basics when a law is being done and when something is being brought to my attention I ask myself a question, and I ask the representatives of the promoter, whether in the making of this law and in its final, final appearance, what a simulation of the implementation of the procedure with all the obstacles that can be encountered and what a time period is needed to reach the final goal, the final result of selecting an offer. I have always wondered why private entrepreneurs do not use all the benefits of the Public Procurement Act aware of the fact that the Public Procurement Act must exist, that it is necessary and that surely in public procurement there can be various manipulations but also the fact that often and a certain story is created about potential manipulation, as counterpart Boric had already said that various different state institutions in his various controls in various ways of interpreting this law and in principle put those who are the contracting authorities or authorised representatives of the contracting authorities in very awkward situations. It's really strange that no one in the real sector wants to apply a law that says money is being saved. Perhaps part of the answer lies in the fact that the real sector is most often and in the role of the bidders, so it is very clear to them what this is really about and what are all possible obstacles to the implementation of the Public Procurement Act and the one before and before and now and the one that will come after it. I am afraid that this 452 article law of ours will be difficult to contribute to the speedy implementation of public procurement procedures, and it is precisely one of the principles of public procurement that this is the principle of efficiency and that as quickly as possible it is implemented and here we seem to have a very large reregulation again. This fact necessarily leads to a particularly on-call so-called. The duty-seeker has even more options for his complaints, and that means not making fast decisions, and that means the danger I was already talking about in replicas to threaten us with insufficient use of EU funds for the major projects ahead of us. And here I'm also going to say one of my courts, one of my own opinions is not sure that we've been well-defined by these programmes of special water supply and agglomeration programs and that fashion was wiser that we've worked as a whole, that we've made it possible to discuss separate competitions for a whole and thus make it possible primarily for domestic entrepreneurs to report. This way they fall into another plan and realistically looking hard for any of them to get a job. Congratulations to those who may have succeeded. The rules to be adopted, which the Public Procurement Act prescribes, should be adopted immediately otherwise, will happen so-called. a legal gap and an example of the 2013 Sustainable Waste Management Act, which prescribed the adoption of 56 sublaws. To date, only one has been brought in and, in the meantime, a number of court disputes have arisen for reasons of non-registration. He would suggest, we will accept as a club a proposal for this law, we have given an amendment that is not in some large form, does not violate the law or its essence, but in any case it would be wise to consider placing in the law an obligation on the contracting officer to immediately put a contract without price in the call for public competition. In this way, possible subsequent manipulations would be removed and a whole series of the public procurement laws could then be removed. The Public Procurement Act should also remove the option of paying debtors. The explanation is that it protects debtors, and it's not exactly true. In practice, new, but unnecessary complications that can be seen from the issue are reopened. It would be better to define the difference between the tendering community and subcontractors. For example, geodetic services are generally treated as part of the offer community, and this makes no sense since they hardly ever cross 5% of services and works. There is now a well-sighted system of trade in complaints under quotes. Therefore, after the conclusion of the contract, other bidders should not participate in the realisation of the contract in any way. The costs of the tenderers, the complainants should also be abolished in the event of acceptance of the complaint. For example, the absurd verdict of the State Commission in the case of anglomeration of Varazdin when the contractor practically received an order from the State Commission to pay them around 500 thousand kuna damages. Removing the possibility of a computer error would be very good for me, because they are very often done on purpose. This is seen from the comments also at our counseling. Better let the bidders two, three times check their accuracy so as they give, so stand. I don't even see the need to deliver a tax debt certificate. In practice, there has been a tax debt situation of a few Junes due to some interest of one day delay often not even by the investor's mistake, but perhaps not on time in the Tax Administration, and then the interest for a few kunas cannot be offered immediately, it is rejected and a business incompetent entity is created, the bidder. But, as has already been said here, it would be really good to consider whether a certificate of paid wages and all contributions should be placed as an element of the offer and thus make it impossible for those who do not pay workers, who do not pay salaries to participate in the spending of public money. I think it would be a good provision, and I have often talked to entrepreneurs who participate in public procurement procedures and they themselves suggest such a way. So it's not just about protecting workers from union activities, it's about even those serious bidders who are doing their job properly to workers and to the state. The Office for Public Procurement must answer any e-mail inquiry without any doubt because they exist. Currently, it is a very common practice to give phone calls by the office answers that do not bind anyone, which means that they do not even solve the problem. Educations related to the Public Procurement Act should be free of charge, as application of the law is mandatory. It is unacceptable to withdraw money from the public sector through high quotations, that various agencies appear which, as soon as the new law is passed, organise seminars where certificates are obtained and we must pay it all again. I think it's something that can be done from the state level, to allow contracting authorities to have such free consultations and to have those who will carry out public procurement procedures certified at that age. I argue that it is possible to significantly simplify the whole procurement process, and I will also list a few suggestions and examples. Therefore, tenderers may participate in a reverse online auction which is already said but in a way that is mandatory to publish such an auction on the portal, for example, in the National Journals, and is further conducted through a link on the client's website by respecting the principle of transparency or accessibility, it is guaranteed. Therefore, competition is published on the company's website, and all necessary documentation of the costs, drafts, descriptions, possible contract, as well as a list of documents that only the selected bidder will need to deliver before the contract, and the amount of bail for the seriousness of the offer after the bail payment. After the bail payment, each bidder gets his password and auction moves. The exact date and exact time of the end of the auction is specified because the timer is visible. After the completion of the competition, the selected tenderer shall attach the necessary documentation and the contract shall be concluded. This avoids the issue of various certificates, documentation, I don't know what before, and in the end it turns out that people did it all needlessly, didn't go to the competition and ate the donkey wolf. This way this process is accelerated and simplified. In the process, a mandatory bank guarantee is attached to the contract in this case. It contains everything a client needs, because the bank will never give a guarantee to a bad company. If the selected offerer does not have the required documentation, he will lose his bail. If the selected tenderer does not close the contract within the specified time limit, the guarantee shall be lost. If the selected bidder does not perform the work according to the occupancy and deadlines, the bank guarantee shall be activated. This is the example we have been spending in our Communist company in Križevci for two, three years. We publish these auctions for smaller works, of course according to the law. And in no case have we ever had any problems. The amendment we make refers to Article 219. We suggest that this article is also amended and that the new article reads: “If, during the execution of the public procurement contract, the contracting authority is obliged to state this in the procurement documents and to set out the provision of this contract, we therefore propose that the article 219 reads in turn from what is prescribed by this proposal of the law and thus the corrupt provision makes a significant contribution to wider application... and ensure that legal certainty contributes to the implementation of the public procurement contract. I repeat, and I appeal to the Proposer, let's bear in mind that all these factors in the public procurement system must work in a way that the processes of public procurement are getting as short as possible, to allow those who are contracting authorities to carry them out quickly and efficiently so as not to create bottlenecks in any part of the state administration because we can have great, huge damages primarily in the use of European money that we know are limited by time periods. We'll accept a bill like this. And please consider this proposal for our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21657	Thank you, colleague Hrg. It's three replicas. He's the first person to represent the Blessed Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21658	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrg. Somewhere at the beginning of your presentation, you said it would be good to run a simulation of this law and eat a simulation of this law. We are not going to say unfortunately, but we had in application of this existing law so I believe you and me and many of the colleagues we come from the local administration were very often headached precisely by this economically favourable offer. The reason for this economically most favourable offer is just now to get on the bench one amendment from one club of MPs, where it says that application should be six months later than this law provides. No, exactly the application should be as urgent as possible and as soon as possible because of this very economically advantageous price and we very, very much at the local level have been hit by the head and often hurt the head, I mean the dumped prices, and I mean the string as I said last week when there was a commission report on the track and the designers and also the spray of the contractors. This law really has an intensity, it probably needs some small steps and finishing small ones as you did in your presentation, but the intensity is that we finally get quality construction on the ground or quality procurement on the ground. It's the intensity of this law, and I figured it out. The most important thing is that we finally get quality and then with the bidder and the future selected contractor or the client we don't have hundreds of problems, starting with the... contract annex, then other contract annexes and 25% of the value of breaking the contract, and all because of the only lowest offer within the price. That's why this is the most acceptable part of this law. Okay. I've got some tiny little do-overs, and I've got some very small remarks of a technical nature, but the law's intensity is absolutely clear, and I absolutely support it, and I don't think that at the local level people are going to get any more headaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21659	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21660	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Boban, I agree with you in this section and you know exactly what's been going on. This current law that still applies is the worst thing that could have ever been. And these cheapest offers are going to cost us a lot in the future if it's with these low prices that often get so funny that it's amazing that someone can go to work for it, of course they haven't done a quality job and that it happens four times holding water while the masters leave. And all of this will later in maintenance and everything that comes and repairs will, of course, be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia again. And I agree with your findings, and I said that I would personally support this law, but I am only careful and I appeal that all those entities involved in its implementation, firstly, be under control, secondly, to be quick and efficient so as not to create narrow throats, and to place special controls at the beginning. Because I repeat again, the biggest problems happen in selecting designers and designing itself where you really can't do it if you're not extremely professional in the same profession and calling to see what they're all writing inside, and they're probably dealing with some of the potential performers, I probably are, I don't know, I have no proof. And in the end, who scratches? In the end, the head of the contracting authority is in a row, and he does not participate in the procedure at all. The expert committee shall take part, decisions shall be taken by the bodies which make them, but of course the responsible person shall have his own responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21661	Thank you. The replica was reported by MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21662	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Hrg, not only are you a representative but you are a longtime mayor of the Križevci, so I remembered during your discussion of a defamation that took place in the state administration during the government of Zoran Milanović, when we failed to determine the contractors of the construction of the railway Longo Selo-Križevci. In fact, we changed three administrations, three tenders failed, and for four years we couldn't choose a performer to perform the work on the construction of the railway, whose value was one billion and 120 million kuna. I am saying this because it is very important that, apart from recognising the law as the most economically favourable offer as a criterion when determining the performer, that the state administration, that public contracting authorities, that sectoral contracting authorities have quality administrative staff that can do so. Because on this particular example, we have shown how badly we can work on the absorption of EU funds. In the light of the law, it says that 42% of the orders that should be financed by EU funds have fallen to the State Public Procurement Commission precisely because we have not been administratively assigned enough to carry out complicated difficult competition projects for the identification of contractors. In that sense, I fully agree with you that there is much to be done in order to be able to respond in the times ahead of us to competitions which will be dealt with especially in sectors such as heavy infrastructure, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21663	Replica response, MP Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21664	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bačić, when I exhibited this, was also in my mind that story about the railway Long Village-Criževci when we basically almost ran out of that money, that at the last minute he managed to conduct the competition and conclude the contracts and thank dear God it is now done and the money was already provided to continue from the Crosses to the Koprivnica and the Hungarian border. And I hope that, under this new law, it will be much faster and more efficient to carry out that competition and that such works will go on. That's exactly the kind of practice we come up with, me personally. And so I constantly appeal that all factors must be included, fast and efficient, and that there must be a uniform practice, of course for certain types of procurement. Because we really had, what was said the other day when there was a report from the state commission, we really have examples of totally unequal practices in solving complaints and complaints. And it's not normal. And if this is still going to happen, if we don't form all the bodies and we don't get them right in implementation, we won't be able to implement anything again. I am convinced that we will be able to work things out, speed up the processes, if we need to increase the number of members of that commission, if we need to speed up these administrative disputes that are later on, only that this is going faster and faster, more effectively, to choose the performers and that jobs can be realised. God gave that and as many of these jobs as possible to Croatian companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21665	Thank you, Representative Hrg. The replication was reported by MP Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21666	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I listened to a colleague in your presentation, so you mentioned salaries that usually some performers don't give to workers and eventually get a job, perform a job, compete legally at all levels of ministries. My suggestion is who doesn't pay the salary can't enter the competition. It's no problem if some company hasn't paid the last month's salary or not the last month's taxes, I believe that this man and that company could enter that contest. But I'd like to say one other thing, big jobs take big businesses that find subcontractors, eventually don't pay their jobs, and the mass of such small companies has failed. So now I ask the question, is it possible for these small companies to block a large company if they let the state know, give some of their contracts by which that contractor didn't pay off their jobs? And I think the state should take that into account, block the contractor's funds and give and pay the subcontractors if they lose the state, if they lose small entrepreneurs. We know that the mass of small entrepreneurs shut down their companies just because they invested their assets, invested everything and the contractor didn't pay them. This is not one case, it is thousands and thousands of cases, and I believe that the state should protect small subcontractors and the contracts to say that the contractor will not be paid until he pays small subcontractors, no matter what the price, do not have to be in the price contracts but the payment must be made. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21667	Thank you. Reply to the replica MP Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21668	My colleague Misic, you're a businessman, and then you can speak from that point of view. So it's absolutely unacceptable for me, and here we agree that companies that don't pay their employees neatly, so they automatically or automatically don't fill their budget, do not fulfil their obligations, can consume works and funds of public money. That's not normal. Small companies should always be protected. The craftsmen, the small entrepreneurs. The little ones need protection, the bigger ones, of course, they're fighting, they're stronger, they're a little easier. And now there is the possibility of this direct payment to the subcontractor. But you probably get to know that well when you talk about the many destructions of small companies, small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, nothing of them has been beaten as much as that famous thief's law on pre-priced settlements, that's where the kid got hurt. More unfortunately, more than in public procurement. And no one's talking about it. And the companies that were pearls of small entrepreneurship overnight failed because they couldn't help themselves, just someone planted them as it fits. But in any case in this part, I was saying that maybe it wouldn't go to such direct payments in this part, small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, cooperatives, so-called, it's now a matter of their mutual contract. The fact is, if he wants to get a job at all, he has to take down those literally folk underpants to get a job, and now that's the problem, but in any case, he needs to find a way to protect them, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21669	Thank you. A representative of Proposer Martin Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21670	Thank you very much. Here are some clarifications, since some extremely important issues have been raised in recent discussions. With regard to EU projects, I would like to point out, in fact, that by the very act of debate and hopefully the adoption of this law, we will remove the great uncertainty associated with the implementation of EU projects, given that the implementation of the directive should have been adopted by this law, or by the end of April of this year. It was precisely because Croatia was late to implement the directive, and this was followed by problems, i.e. early elections and the disbandment of the parliament. That delay has now turned into almost seven months. And precisely because of this fact, there was uncertainty about the implementation of EU projects because EU projects had to be implemented in accordance with the directive during this period and the Croatian law was not fully in line with the directive. So, by adopting this law, we are removing quite a lot of uncertainty with the legal framework in which EU projects are being implemented. I also wanted to point out, however, about the issue of certificates concerning payouts and contributions. We have also received such a request from the ministry, and I am taking this opportunity to point out that this issue is addressed by the current article of Laws 252 and 254. These issues are addressed in the law and the law in the text as proposed by the request that the fulfilment of the obligations with the basis of health and pension insurance is an obligation that the participant or tenderer must demonstrate. It is also possible to require, on the basis of the existing text, respect for labour and social rights obligations or regular payouts. In addition, I wanted to point out that related to direct payments to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Although such a provision of the law is challenging and can cause arguments that Mr. Hrg pointed out that the question of the relationship between workers and their cooperatives is simply a matter of private contractual relations. Since 2012, we have a provision of law that has been detained in this law and that is a direct payment to subcontractors. And in this sense, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were protected and that protection stemmed from the experience that occurred during the crisis where the irregularity of payment precisely for construction works was the most difficult hit by small cooperatives. And in the end, I would actually like to take the opportunity to say that neither the Ministry of Economy nor myself are actually satisfied with the space that the State Public Administration School gives in the education and education of public and public servants in public procurement. Namely, the State School of Public Administration has an obligation to carry out education free of charge for both state services and units of local self-government, to conduct education in the part needed to obtain a certificate or pass a free exam at the Ministry of Economy and the State School is also obliged to carry out free of charge an education for which certified officials must pass after having passed the exam. We are not satisfied, however, with the dynamics and abundance of these seminars, and that is something we will certainly work on in the implementation of this law. And finally related to the application of the most economically favourable, economically favourable offer of its obligation from 1 July of next year does not prevent any public procurement debtor from The law is based on the provisions of the law and the application of the most economically favourable offer begins to apply from 1.7. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] In this way relatively delay is given space for education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21671	Thank you. Representative Branko Hrg reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21672	Thank you very much. And it's not really a replica, it's not a discrepancy, but I'm glad to see that you've taken a good look at the problems ahead of us and that you're basically aware and now we're just coming to the part that we're really going to have to do this dynamic thing that I'm standing by to repeat within that system that it's working. Because that state school that does free education if you turn up in a year means you're forced to pay for the general order and I'm convinced there are enough experts who can be further educated and that after the adoption of a law like this, a really single education campaign is made for people to start applying it as soon as possible. That's what we all want. And it's not all about the Public Procurement Act, it's not all about the problems especially with these EU projects. And thank you for pointing out these two articles that speak here even though they avoid things of course in various ways but they will never be able to catch everything. But let's say for these European projects that were ahead of us infrastructure we had a big problem with water supply and disposal in the back four years in the preparation of these projects in Croatian waters. There are so many circuses that we really should invite some people who ran Croatian waters at the time and report what they did, what way it was done because we won't even be able to call the competitions because of the unpreparedness and stupidity they did there. So it's not all about the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21673	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives to report for participation in the debate is SDP's Club of Representatives and their representative Marko Vedligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21674	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we all agreed today that public procurement is an extremely important area in terms of spending public money according to these statistical reports of the Ministry of Economy, i.e. the Public Procurement Administration. We heard several times today in 2015 it was 40.58 billion kuna and 12.14% of GDP in the Republic of Croatia. Here is the share of GDP we can conclude, in fact, that from 2011 to 2013 and in 2014 each year it grows by almost one percentage point. Of course, the intensity is that in the Republic of Croatia we also obtain as much EU funds as possible, so the spending of these funds cannot go on without public procurement, whether it is an obligation to implement the Public Procurement Act or not. It means three new directives adopted in the EU, so European Parliament and Council Directives of 26. ... refers to contracting authorities, sectoral contracting authorities and award of concession contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These directives we heard just before also came into force on 17 April 2014 and we should have implemented them by 18 April 2016, so to bring our laws and regulations in line with these published directives. We didn't do it within that legal time limit. On 5 January 2016, the European Commission also adopted an Implementing Regulation establishing a standard form for the European single procurement documentation that is binding and must be applied in all EU Member States. Therefore, this European single procurement documentation is a drastic reduction in paperwork, and economic operators are also delivering this form of documentation in public procurement procedures. This is, therefore, their statement declaring that they have all the necessary documentation to remove the need to deliver a significant number of certificates and other documents related to the exclusion and selection criteria. Therefore, only the successful tenderer delivers the documentation prior to the signing of the Framework Agreement and thus the contracting authorities, the contracting entities and the bodies issuing those certificates have been relieved. Thus, the criteria for selecting offers in public procurement procedures for the most economically favourable offer actually proposed by this new Public Procurement Act in Article 283 is the best ratio between price and quality. Therefore, which is assessed on the basis of criteria including qualitative, environmental or social aspects related to the subject of procurement. According to Article 283, the criteria are quality including technical value, aesthetic and functional characteristics, accessibility, solution for all users, social, environmental, innovative characteristics, trade and trading conditions, organisation, qualifications and experience, post-sale services and technical assistance. Therefore, the contracting authority should not determine only the price or only the cost as the sole criterion for the selection of tenders, and in that case the relative price or cost weight should not exceed 90%. So, hello peasantly speaking, the share of the price should not be that of the total score. And then articles 286 to 288 elaborate on our criteria. This is, of course, a theory that I used a little bit for introduction, but in practice we're going to have problems that's for sure. Some public procurement will be easy to set a criterion, so for a minimum number of years a guarantee of zero points, for each year more than 5 points, for example. The shorter the delivery time, the more points, but there will also be public procurement where it will be difficult, almost impossible to set criteria and there should be a real work on a systematic education of public contracting authorities. Here and I'm glad that the minister also said here in her replicas and exhibits, that they saw the problem that exists with the State School of Public Procurement and that this is where they'll work. It will certainly be necessary to do more, that is to say, to look for certain knowledge from mathematics because all these criteria through the formula must give a certain number of points. Sometimes it's smaller, sometimes more. So you actually have to guess to hit a good one ratio, not to be a high product price for criteria that our users don't matter at all. Maybe, say, computer delivery doesn't have to be through a certain number of days. What will also come to us as a problem is the process of drawing up documentation for competition where I am convinced that there will be numerous objections that the criteria and the way of the score are determined to suit a particular bidder. Because the lowest price criterion is the simplest and we're actually going to have to make a much better model here. Therefore, what is important is to consult users in each production, at every stage of the design of the competition documentation in order to make suggestions and remarks on the criteria and formulas developed. It is important that the procedure itself be transparent, published at every stage of its production and that technical consultations be held with interested economic operators on which, in fact, what I have previously pointed out and made comments on the complete documentation, but in this part and on the selected criteria and in the way of points. And now we actually have an obligation to publish the draft documentation to compete on the web pages before the competition is announced, and the body is obliged to respond within the time limit for any observations received. But here, in my opinion, it will certainly be necessary to develop criteria and formally publish them before this stage as a publication of part of the draft documentation for competition. It will therefore be necessary to carry out technical consultations before the publication itself. The maximum transparency I have stated here is necessary to avoid the debate already in the beginning whether these criteria are written for someone. Quick comes 1.1.2017. and the question I have asked through the replica before, how much is the Ministry of Economy with sublaws ready for this story, how ready it is to educate all public order providers on changes in the Public Procurement Act. We have this transition period of six months but we are asked a question of relative and absolute denial of offers. It relatively benefits the value of one or more other offers, so before the offer, the offerer cannot know how many points it will score, while the absolute offerer can know its number of points and the basis of the criteria set out regardless of the other bidders. There arises a problem with relative that following the exclusion of some of the offers which is not first ranked and... continued change in the first place. So one of these practical mathematical problems also needs to begin education immediately. All in all, it must have been a big step, all those working in the public sector who ran the local self-government units recognized the problem, only unfortunately that we are doing it quite quickly now and under the pressure of the EU. Hence, this delay can also result in poor training of officials, and thus also problems that will arise in stalking new legal solutions. So, this regulation concerning public procurement should be adopted, as I said before, by March 2014, there are few countries in the EU that have not done so yet and Croatia is unfortunately one of them. At present, we are present in public, and I believe that this debate is going to disprove it a little bit, perhaps in part, so something is being banned, no more the lowest price, but it has to go to the most economically favourable offer, everything is going to be great. It is not, of course, because I think that the minister is doing the same to the guy's statements so far that only the lowest price has been applied, and now we are going to the most economically favourable offer. So far, of course, no one has defended the most economically favourable offer, but the system has not made it possible to actually make it difficult, it has made it possible, but it has made it difficult. This around the lowest price and the most economically favourable offer I must point out that in the EU, there is still a significant part of the purchase of more than 30%, according to the lowest price criterion, and in one part of the countries it is even more than 60%. We don't have any in which this criterion isn't used at all. For example one, we have put through our discussion in the same basket and public procurement for these large infrastructure projects where there is no doubt that we should apply the secure criterion of the most economically favourable offer, but we are actually with the purchase of some simple products, here I will highlight toilet paper you can describe it very precisely and I think you can safely agree, you will buy by the minimum price criterion. We have, of course, the simple goods and products for which we should also use this criterion of the most economically favourable offer, but it is not good to place soap and locomotives in the same basket to express myself. So clearly no one recommends dominating the minimum price criteria, we have examples in Europe where complete sectors have been injured because of the application of this criterion, but there are goods and services that can be described so well that no specific quality criteria need to be used at the lowest price. The lowest price is quite fine in many purchases. Forcing something as innovative as this idea of a public procurement system without a minimum price criterion actually prevents the transfer of verified good practice developed by those using proven quality public procurement systems. So, we have great experience, which unfortunately we have paid dearly in Croatia with the abuses of this minimum price criterion and instead of taking advantage of this experience by identifying and encouraging good practice, to recognize actually the drivers of bad practice and to eliminate them, we are looking for a solution to ban something that is ultimately and impossible to ban. Here's to the end, so we don't actually have a system of good public procurement without good experts who know that public procurement, whether they're economists or lawyers dominate this story. They are ultimately to blame for the fact that someone dares to sell hip braces that should naturally last more than ten years, and then the patient has to go to surgery after the second year. And whoever sold that prosthetic doesn't suffer any consequences. In front of the SDP club, one remark. I think this law is not good that he went into emergency procedure, we should have put him in two readings at the beginning of the meeting of this meeting of the Croatian Parliament. I think that this debate today also shows how important it is, how important it is, and I am sure that through debate and through remarks, through amendments they would give and get a much better and much more high-quality bill. What I can say in front of the SDP club is that through the debate and amendments, even if within this short time period, we will give our proposals to improve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21675	Thank you, Agent Vesligaj. The first representative to report for the replica is representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21676	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Vesligai, through your presentations, I somehow got the impression that the law forbids the client to choose the cheapest bidder. The law does not defend it, but it is a mandatory criterion that it is not the only criterion. It's the intensity of the law. Well, of course, in some of the banal things like some kind of article that you mentioned here, it's absolutely absolute that the client will most likely choose what is most favourable to him, economically most advantageous, and also financially advantageous when it comes to banal. Therefore, it is not the law that excludes you from choosing the cheapest bidder, but the law is the urgency that one of the criteria and most important still is the criterion of offers or prices, but also some other set of segments such as quality of performance, expertise within a particular company or also the bidder. The second thing, you said, and I think the amendment has already come to the benches, in the sense that the application of the law does not go from 1.7, but from 1 January 2018. The explanation of how successful I was is the intricacies of persons who should be implemented tomorrow or the needyness of persons who are supposed to implement this law tomorrow. I'll remind you, and you'll know it in particular, so local administrations have already now and under the current law at the head of public procurement commissions had to have at least one person who has a certificate regarding public procurement. It's like that now. This person, based on this new law, is probably in need of additional education now, but I hope that within six months additional education is very possible because those persons who have these certificates absolutely already have a good foundation and a good basis for public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21677	The answer to the replica is "Velligai."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21678	Here is colleague Boban, article 283, says that the selection criteria in public procurement procedures are the most economically favourable offer. So I think that in this part of it, we should have explained this a little bit more specifically, and actually, at least for these simple purchases, so to speak, we should remain this criterion of the lowest price, or it can be used. As for the other one you mentioned, I don't think six months is enough time for local units to have people who have public procurement certificates good share, most of them, some smaller municipalities certainly don't have than to use whether from other local self-government majors, whether from public enterprises, whether from the county, therefore, there are various models. But it will be very difficult within six months. These are the most common you know, the very heads of the smaller cities and municipalities that have really very much to do, and the new law, I said before, 452 articles and 12 contributions. You actually have a completely new legal solution. Through education, surely which will also be quite different from what the old law was, a very short term. And yet the question remains, therefore, of these smaller municipalities and their capacities to educate these people who will be able to conduct public procurement procedures. I think we should leave at least a year and start with a proposal for a new law or a new law since 1.1.2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21679	Thank you. The next representative to report is MP Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21680	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague of the Vesligai. So I fully agree with you that at this point many units of local self-government will not be able to carry out such complex procedures, not because of the amount and size of the price, but because they do not have enough educated people except the head of the single management department, which, in the rules of that certificate, is the most common secretary of the municipality. Other people who are members of this committee do not usually have that education. I'm not saying that because they can or won't. We need to think about protecting them, protecting theirs, telling their legal protection. I'm going to give you an example, and I'm sorry for the fact that this bill of law has put out inspection. Therefore, in order for this Public Procurement Act to be not only enforceable but also manage the entire public procurement process, all the money that is going around there needs to be included all the institutions. Here's an example. In the town of Virovitica in its own time, the town of Virovitica probably based on some invitation awarded by Domos from Virovitica building land for 1 kuna. The contract condition was to build on the building land a production activity facility and employ 16 workers. It's not done until today. Instead, Domos, although it came to this property practically free of charge, did not make it a commercial one, rented that space for commercial activity. So according to some estimate, the city was damaged by 2.4 million kuna. Someone made that decision. Is it the mayor, is it some kind of commission? Tomorrow someone's gonna make another decision. Later on with the annexes, look out, we have cases where there are 17 annex contracts. In this case, there were 13 annex contracts with this company. How come someone who is a member of the commission can know how much later, and it is allowed to think according to the legal scheme 30 percent of the total price, how much an annex the head of the local self-government contract will make and how he can then answer both legally and materially in any other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21681	Thank you. The answer to the replica Marko Squirt. Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21682	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So we need to think carefully about these committees and commissions that will be in public procurement. And I'm going to talk about an example here too. Therefore, in the case of public procurement, especially in the case of large works, I will look back at Gunjo where in the recovery of the village of Gunja in connection with the floods it should certainly be in public procurement, as well as in the implementation it was necessary to include someone who was not sufficiently educated, especially who was from that field, and there would be real conclusions and real decisions on how to spend state resources in Gunja. I'm going to say one example here. The restoration of Gunja under SDP law and the Ministry of Construction, Anka Mrak-Taritash, is anything but just. I'm reading what they sent me from Gunja. Citizens who were self-renovating their homes so they got 40,000 kunas or 70,000 kunas while the state paid up to 350,000 kuna for the same works to the performers who chose for themselves, who chose for themselves in the invitation competition. Further overpayment of works, here I have a picture of two houses of 55 square meters of living space costing 872 thousand kuna each, a million 744 thousand kuna for 110 square meters, which is about 2100 euros per meter square and the price does not include the price of land, spent project documentation and utility fees, electricity connection, water and gas. And imagine these two houses are located in the side street under the woods where the road ends and still goes nowhere. For half of this price buy a 100 square square house in Vinkovci in Kanovci, my colleague Misic knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21683	Thank you. The answer to the replica is "Velligai."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21684	I don't know what this has to do with the new law on public procurement, and if there were any irregularities, then you should have reported it to the competent institutions. I think we could all agree, actually, there have been a lot of changes to the public procurement law, and here I am, about six years ago, passing a public procurement certificate and I know how much the whole law has changed since then. And even here we agreed through the debate that any amendments to the law have made something good, so we have improved through the years this system, today we have come to this stage in fact that in some way the entire tendency of the law to move to the most economically favourable offer and that is certainly one good decision, well, of course, respecting all the specificities for the supply of certain good services and works where it may be necessary to take into account and take into account the criteria of the lowest price and probably in the future there is a further addition of the law in view of the legal changes that are so often with us in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21685	The next club to report for participation in the debate is the HNS, HSU club and, on their behalf, Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21686	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Public Procurement Act. The law on public procurement certainly always requires a lot of controversy especially when it comes to those involved but let's see what are key and fundamental objectives. So the key and fundamental objective is to achieve the best value for public money. This is about public money and the obligations of all those who manage and who have the opportunity to manage public money to achieve the best values for this public money. In fact, I've had a good experience with public procurement, we know what's wrong with us, and this is certainly the result of all the opportunities we've had in practice. He really has a large number of articles, I'm not really into that kind of norm, but those who wrote it, and he was in a public debate, so they certainly created a document based on the experience they had. Let me share one experience with you in relation to public procurement 15 years ago when the topic of public procurement and the law was only in the bandages and we only had the first experience. I was in the Netherlands, Amsterdam has 7 municipalities and then the Netherlands was a terrible problem, it was of course related to Amsterdam and its 7 municipalities because in the public procurement they had laws, which they had been dealing with for a long time, was the sole criterion of the cheapest offer. And based on that criterion, the cheapest offer turned out to be the business of replacing flowers in parks and playgrounds in Amsterdam, a Belgian company. It was on the level at all because all the newspapers, all the TVs, everything was full of it. I have to admit, at that point, I didn't understand very well because it was only in the bandages that they're talking about, and that's one of the indicators where the cheapest offer should certainly be. So the decision that is now, in fact, in line with EU directives that have not arisen so easily. What you must know is that there has also been a bile discussion on all topics related to the EU and the most economically favourable offer is certainly a good way to choose, a good way to choose because we have convinced ourselves that the countless times are not even the cheapest. You know that I love to talk very much with images, we've had one public procurement, we've been talking about building one building, we've got an offer, you know that the ministry that I led, we've got a number of people who've been educated, so engineers, builders and architects, the majority of us were architects and builders, and we knew that we've got an offer, it's about building a building that was certainly 5 to 10% below the price that this company can work for. You had no choice, it was important to do it, it was important to do it in time. Of course, we've strictly taken care of the extracurricular work and everything else. There's a lot between you and the mayor and I think you know exactly what I'm talking about. Cheapest certainly isn't every time and the best. So every time we need to keep in mind the fact that we need to get the best value for public money. Therefore, it is extremely good for this model to be economically advantageous. The full flexibility of the procurement process is good, as is the reduction of the costs to entrepreneurs and the introduction of legal certainty. I must admit that I am particularly happy and think that this is extremely good, that I am looking forward to is a smaller thing, but the thing is that it will be useful and well-connecting public registers and tax administrations and court registers and crafts and criminal records from FINA especially for all those involved in public procurement and who will carry out and work in these proceedings. I also estimate that according to the directive, what we have introduced is that all those papers are not to be delivered for the offer. I have to admit, and I'm sure you do too often wonder we have a series of systems e, this, that. But every time you need to do something, you still have to bring out the paper. For some things it's absolutely clear to me, but for some things I have to admit that I don't understand, and there we're certainly going to have to make one step at all about that way of working. Equally, it's a good cost reduction for entrepreneurs. Everything we do to reduce the cost of entrepreneurs we've taken a step forward. What we at the HNS Club, HSU appreciate is that this Public Procurement Act is regardless of the number of articles, regardless of these discussions that we are taking forward, every law that we pass regardless of whether we formally comply with EU directives must be a step forward. But in the future, we need to take care of some things. So what I've been doing here is telling the story of the Netherlands and Belgium, the Dutch have worked very hard, taking great care of public procurement and taking great care of those criteria of the economically advantageous bidders to be and a number of criteria actually to protect something they're famous for. I'd like to say a few words about the construction sector. So Croatia is traditionally known and beyond our borders I especially talk about Germany where since the 1960s our people have gone as construction workers. But what they didn't go as construction workers, so our lowest people there were construction heads, so they went there thanks to their experience and thanks to the advantages we have. Equally, we had respectable construction companies that had excellent references not only on the domestic market but on the European market and at some point beyond. And now we're coming up with that key problem, we're facing major procedures, these procedures are going to be, and these procedures are inevitable, and major infrastructure operations are going to be further. I'm talking about railroad procedures. What I personally think is that part of the future related to infrastructure is to develop a quality rail network because it can absolutely affect the development of all parts of Croatia. The grip will be on water protection, the procedures will be related to irrigation, not to say from a major infrastructure procedure that we all look forward to, which is the Pelješki Bridge. And at the time when it's ready we'll have a problem and with this problem we have to be aware of our construction firms won't be able to be carriers because they won't have appropriate references. I warned, warn, and from this payphone, they will be able to be with another bidder as we have already had experience building a railway line where my colleagues have talked a lot about how the competition went and everything else. So, we have the law now, otherwise the HNS Club, HSU, will support that law, we have a law that's a step forward and it's good. This law should give it the opportunity to live and see through life, which is potentially a problem we have but what needs to be thought about in the future and trust me all EU countries and think about how to protect something that is characteristic of this country. Croatia has a real connection to the building of a good and long tradition. We had great armers, carpenters, roof covers so specific knowledge in the building. These know-how are, of course, a little bit over time, but we still have people out there working, and that's how we need to take care of the help that needs to be taken care of our construction sector. Of course, you can't do that at this time, no one's influence can be reduced, but that's what needs to be taken care of. We will give some amendments that are more nomochics and related to the appeal process and experience we have so we think that there will be, that there will actually be help, but we would be the part where the transitional provisions have added one article and it is related to certain specificities. So the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is in itself uniting sectors for different knowledge, and we advocate that one regulation would be adopted in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, where certain volumes that are traditionally applied, I speak first of all about construction and then other sectors to introduce them through one regulation, in order to actually define certain specific jobs. It's not to be very smart in the number of regulations now, so they say it takes one more, but for the simple reason it's to be a help, to be through one rulebook to all those who question and also to those who conduct public procurement. And we come up with a big topic, so the experience that talks is next you can have a great law, we can all affirm that the law is excellent but if we don't keep an eye on it and if you don't control it all the time or if you don't properly educate those you're going to, who are going to implement that law, of course, will have a lot of problems. This law is a specific law, according to the Public Procurement Act, people have already worked. Those who deal with public procurement were already through the public hearing process, so in the public debate was this law, for a long time we've been talking about it, they've already had a chance to read everything else. The Minister spoke about formal education related to our school, but there is something equally important, something that we have used and experience and which is good, which is that you do or round tables, so that the Resord Ministry does either round tables, or does some exposure in cooperation can work in different ways. It's best to gather and get on the ground, so here I don't want to re-evaluate whether we have 3, 4 or 5 regions and discuss on the ground what's the problem with people working on public procurement, that's what I'm talking about local self-government units. And you know very well that we have units of local self-government that are perfectly equipped and that people have an excellent experience of those who don't. But everyone's task is that when they spend public money, they have to get the best of the money. So I think it's always good to do round tables, do education, be in the field. But not a way to speak ex-Catedra, but a way to listen to comments, suggestions and suggestions, even to discuss some examples that have been and in this way we can actually perfect the public procurement system. The public procurement system, and we all have a chance to do it. He must be open, public and transparent. When you go to this assembly, of course you go through the city of Zagreb and you can see a series of cases from fountains, where 5 fountains in the city of Zagreb cost, like two schools. You have opportunities to see on the British, works we don't know who's performing them, or why he's taking them out, or what's the amount. This is a story that we live in the city of Zagreb have, a story that you can see and examples that should not be. It's final. This Public Procurement Act must be a step further. Every law must be and must improve what it was before it was. We have done one improvement, when I speak to me in the Government where I was and this is now in the law of Article 12, which is that this law does not apply to the purchase of goods and services and the implementation of project competitions worth less than 200 thousand kuna, works estimated at less than 500 thousand kuna. When it comes to diplomatic missions and consular offices, then it is 950,000 kunas, or 4 million kunas. When it was in the public debate well, you know there's been a lot of struggle. It's been quite a public debate, but you have to endure in some things as we insisted. That's what we were able to put into the law, so two, three years ago. It is now, and it has proved to be a good provision, which has facilitated certain situations and a certain life. When you do your job well and responsibly, you manage public money well. But you should always keep in mind – public procurement is getting the best for public money as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21687	I'd like to thank the attorneys of Anki Dark Taritash. The first representative to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21688	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Mrak Taritash. Here first of all, this law is an improvement towards the present state and should certainly be supported. It has been made professionally and quality in addition to these objections that we point out. But you said this was a specific law. This is also a segment of an economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. If we can agree on having all contracts open jobs, then this law also has a major impact on the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, on job openings and the economy in general. I'll say it on an example of how it can be applied. We do. Someone here mentioned a projector. The projector can design that in some construction product in the construction industry it requires the product to be the color of the ice at -15 degrees. Afterwards the client conducts public procurement, our commission does it all nicely and then comes surveillance and says surveillance this is not on -15 colors of ice, this is the color of the ice at -13 degrees. As you say in life, you need to grease the wheels, and so does the lawyer, sometimes control what kind of roasting, that's what you say. So other than these 40 billion that we talk about in public procurement, a lot is lost and a lot of things entrepreneurs themselves lose because they sort of accept or agree to a racket. That's what you see best. You can see it in a dung supply, where the man says. You see more than half of them, half of them show up at only one bidder. He says I won't answer it now, I'll get a second chance. Now, in order for all this to happen, we need complete control of the entire system. That's where we don't actually have efficiency, the whole control of tax, tax institutions, from the State's Attorney's office. Because it's not good, and many people complain about applying to the State's Attorney's Office for certain corrupt activities and no one reacts. And then later people are just afraid to sign up more, and especially entrepreneurs themselves when they say that if I rebel now, I'll never get a job again. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21689	Thank you. Replicate response, MP Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21690	Comrade Sagar, you've said a series of problems you have in real life. And there's really such a problem. I'm your architect, and I really appreciate my colleagues, and you know often when it comes to some kind of projects that go through public competitions, then we all like to leave some sort of clue in the space, and you're kind of a monument to yourself. But it doesn't have to be done that way every time. And there are indeed a number of problems, and all of us who have had our chance and who have managed public money must have that word of responsibility. You need to have a word of responsibility, and that is why it is extremely important what I have said, and it is a continuous education, education of all together. And it is very important to include professional associations when it comes to these guidelines that we will propose through the provision of a new article 400 and 46 we will propose that certain guidelines be made in accordance with professional associations just so that this does not happen. I set an example that was in the ministry. So we've all been of the profession, we've been aware of that in that, that offer we've got we'll have a problem. But she was, we only had two choices or to undo everything for which there was no basis or move on with it, so to strictly control it. And indeed in the system just as important as projectors are important is the review of the documentation, but also important are supervisory engineers. Supervisors are responsible for their work not in agreement with designers and performers, but supervisors are funded by investors, they are responsible for the investor, they should protect the interests of investors, and ultimately, when it comes to this, they should also protect public money because it is public money from taxpayers. Therefore, it is still an additional obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21691	Thank you. The next representative is Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21692	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash. Indeed, every law is at the center of man, absolutely every single one of these public procurement laws where you have ha in a series you have now yourself and answered colleagues of the Vesligai, Žagar in the replica and designers, supervisors, performers, contractors, ha who are once also under the capacitated and professional and even humane. You know, 2005 a long time ago, an older experienced colleague told me, you know, Boban, the more ugly your law is, the less you need inspection and surveillance, because everyone on the street can break it, and somehow take advantage of it. The better and the better this law is, the more you need and the more professional it is regarding the supervision and quality of the law's implementation, because in this series of designers, performers, bidders, contracting authorities, there will always be someone who will be able to drill less in some way. That is why education is needed, but I think that local administrations already have certificates regarding public procurement, rather than a major problem in the section of the preparation of project documentation in the preparation segment. The very act of public procurement, formal technical forms and implementation is very easy to implement because people have certificates by local administrations of additional education related to the new law and all settled. But how to solve the design when simply in that segment and larger local communities are under capacitated. It's not in the local community that it's all about your profession, and a series of other professions are supposed to work there, and then there's a problem. within which it is reflected later in public procurement, without speaking afterwards in the quality of the performance or orders of certain goods and services needed for the customer. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21693	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21694	Thank you very much. My colleague Boban, you've also listed these problems which, when it comes to construction, when it comes to such procedures, we all see it. And we see when something's good. There's no one who doesn't see that the tiles or the badly-placed parquet and everything. Therefore, when it comes to public procurement, it is best to speak to the example of construction because these are examples that are accurate and visible. If I were to appear in this assembly every time anyone who mentions construction or my name could sit there all the time and answer. But joke aside. It's also a matter of well-prepared documentation. So the well-prepared documentation is that you automatically did part of the job. Not because someone is going to complain so the complaints will be easier to answer than well-prepared documentation is important for the investor, you can better control it and see it better. So that part too will need to be educated, and it will need to be taken care of equally. And they can't all do everything. We kind of think everyone can do anything. It's not like that. I often say and set an example, so I'm not going to operate on the occult. The Oculist specializes in something else. And in some jobs, we think we all know everything. Equally well prepared documentation that needs to be made for public procurement, it is not easy and we need to take care of it. So far, we could have had some other criteria besides the cheapest prices. It was rarely decided, it was rarely decided because it was the reason someone complained, so you should have explained it well. And on the other hand, you don't have someone who has this specific knowledge, so you should have prepared well and explained, and then people went along a line of less resistance, the cheapest price here is all clear and clear, even though the cheapest price has often led to big problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21695	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21696	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleague Tarritash. Just before you talked, you actually said that our registers weren't connected to be good. Well, I don't know if you were working on it at that time when you were a minister and if you were trying to work it out somewhere. You mentioned good money management, I'm asking you a question now, you said just before that our builders, the carpenters went out, that Belgium, the Netherlands had already arranged some kind of society, but I would ask you a question, yet you ran one big action in Gunja which he mentioned a little while ago, and fellow Culej, were in the people of Gunja some deceived, and some got what they weren't supposed to? And is it true that it really cost one house in Gunja up to two thousand euros, that the range will be somewhere people who took the money to solve for themselves and 70 thousand to one million is the kuna difference in some kind of damage? Is that possible? I'd like to hear it from you if those stories are being convinced by my Slavonia, and you've been running these jobs, you've given certain companies to do it. And is it possible that you as an architect expert couldn't calculate every house as much as it would cost and thus call a competition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21697	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21698	Thank you very much. Dear Muscle, I am very grateful to you for your question if I have the opportunity to give a clear answer in this High House. So they're messing with everything and everything. A special Law on the Resuscitation of Floods was passed in Cvelferia. The law defined how public procurement will be carried out when it comes to disaster under EU directives, and we asked the commission to tell us how, 22 companies reported. All 21 companies got a job, all the companies that answered got a job. It worked for 18 companies because these others said they had no capacity. The price for each individual business has been established. And in Gunja, 15 thousand kunas were paid to some 700 and 800 thousand kuna, respectively. There were also works for 15 thousand kunas and for each house stands the elaborate, stands the assessment and signed by three people that the assessment is such. What's behind it, whether it's a story or not, I'm not going to comment on it at all. All the papers were made in accordance with the regulations, according to the laws and all the companies that came forward got a job. There wasn't any company that didn't get the job. But the problems that arose were problems that there were no people, so they took people outside Croatia's borders, but that's the same problem we solved with inspections. Equally on the Ministry's website to bond with the e-system has been published. There's still a page of the flood. And when you click on the flood you get a cadastrian particle, you don't get a name and last name and address, the degree of damage, which is restored and how much money it cost. So, still, I recently looked, still this page and for every house you can get clear information. Croatian state decides to resuscitate Gunje We've rescheduled her in a year or so, which I'm extremely proud of. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] You have examples where we decided 20 or 30 years ago to make people replacement houses and to make those places where the flood people were gone, and in Gunja they got all the conditions to come back, to work and to school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21699	Thank you. Representative Maria Jelkovac came forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21700	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, I agree with you in your consideration that the bill has tried to solve all the problems we have seen in the implementation of the current Public Procurement Act. Of course, in addition to what has already been mentioned, there are problems of sub-capacitation among some contracting authorities, especially in smaller areas because of the problem of professional strength. I think there's also a problem with the education of the bidders. And it's causing a lot of trouble. Well, in the end, we have in the procedures of the bidders who report and that they would later complain, not realizing that they didn't respect the documentation all they needed, and then in the appeal procedure, they make the whole procedure difficult, and sometimes we have a situation where projects are late and half and over, and I think it creates big problems, so other than the education of public contracting authorities where I think we've done a lot in the present period, we should work a lot on the education of the bidders. I think that, in fact, the only major bidders who have hired four, five experts who deal only with public procurement, and then they have no problems, and as far as everyone is concerned, I would say less capacitated entrepreneurs, they still have problems in supplying quality and formal correct offers, and then we have those who complain about the things they shouldn't complain about because the complaint seems to be unfounded, but there is a delay in the procedure and it creates problems for all public contracting authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21701	I'd like to thank Representative Jelkovac. The answer to the replica of MPs Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21702	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac. I think you've set up all the topics, not all of them, but most of the topics that are related to public procurement and what colleagues certainly know. Everything in life needs to be learned. We learn how to speak, learn how to treat other people, learn how to ask, when, where, to whom to ask the question. The same way we have to learn about public procurement. And that's all those who participate. So the bidders, the ones who run the public procurement, and, of course, the ones who control it. For the simple reason that public procurement is always the result, but it is always spent public money, therefore, taxpayers' money for something that needs to be generally good and that needs to be generally useful. Education is therefore extremely important. Extraordinary. I always agree to pass the law. If he's not ideal, but we better be covered by the law, then let him live his life through that law, see what the problems are, and solve those problems. That's how I feel about this law. So we should not have been told by the European Union directives some things that we ourselves were aware of. But education is really very important. There's this saying that you've been learning your whole life, and in the end somehow, I'm going to use a little harsh word, and you're going to die a fool. But you really need to learn everything your whole life and be better every time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21703	I thank the MPs of the Dark-Taritash. There'll be a break by 3:00. At 3:00, we move on. Thank you. Party at 13.25pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21704	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We'll move on then, keep working, on clubs. And now it is up to the Club of Representatives of the Most in the name of which the distinguished representative Maro Kristic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21705	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues from the D.A., colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, first of all, allow me to congratulate you all on St. John's Day. Nikola, especially Croatian sailors whose protector he is, whose day and of course is for Dubrovnik defenders who celebrate their day today. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, I will say something about this bill that is finally in front of us because it was adopted by the Croatian Government on 8 June, but unfortunately because of the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament, we have not had the opportunity to discuss it so far. Generally, as far as the law itself is concerned, there is a lot of good, positive news that will certainly affect the fact that the public procurement process is as good as possible and as effective as possible and therefore all praises at the expense of all those stakeholders who participated in its creation. What is practically in our opinion now most important is that we now, in a way, roughly force the orderlies to apply new criteria, the most economically acceptable offers. This quality favouring criterion will start from 1.7, so from 1.7, with a delay in effect from the entry into force of the law itself. In order to be able to discuss the procurement process at all, we need to know very well the very essence of public procurement and what it really includes. This is what I have already said in my discussion today, that is, in the replica of a representative, and I said that the key to public procurement actually lies in the quality of the jobs that precede the public procurement process itself. First of all, I mean research into the need for planning, analysis of documentation and all other actions that lead to this process of public procurement being done in the best possible way. In fact, the public procurement law itself explains the procedure, and in this sense this Public Procurement Act is much better than this previous law. All of this actually points to one conclusion that the key to successful public procurement is not only in the good law but also in the due attention that customers need to give to plan public procurement processes within their institutions and especially on well-organised professional and specialized staff who need to carry out these activities within institutions because only then will we be able to talk about effective and meaningful spending of public money. In order for this law that is in line with the EU acquis to be as high as possible, it is necessary to transpose the EU provisions, in fact, the EU directive, as best as possible to identify them and implement them in our national legislation, and I think that everyone who has worked on it has certainly succeeded. Public procurement is an extremely large cookie, according to data, the statistics that we have a share of the value of public procurement in Croatia amount to around 40 billion kuna, which accounts for about 12% of GDP or about 40% of the central state budget. In Croatia over 15,000 contracts were concluded in the public procurement process last year. In most cases, the only criterion for the assignment was that criterion of the lowest price while the most economically acceptable offer was used as a criterion in slightly less than 400 cases, which is about 2 to 2.5% of the total purchase value. Of that amount of 40 million, of 40 million and slightly more than 40 million and some billion, 9.2 billion fall to the so-called. the purchase of goods and services, and up to 500 thousand kuna for works not subject to the Public Procurement Act, but rather for the contracting authorities themselves to do so by their own internal acts. In the new law, there is a lot of news that will simplify the process and make them more efficient and one of the most significant is the introduction of a European single procurement documentation, so the new law is more now, which is often repeated by colleagues not asking entrepreneurs who have applied for public procurement tenders in the application itself to collect a number of documents than by one statement guaranteeing that in the event that they are selected bidders will attach all the necessary documentation that is quite complex. And I believe that this kind of change is what our small and angry entrepreneurs welcome and support. The system is also modernised, heading towards e-procurement, connecting registers run by public authorities, court craft registers, fine, tax administration criminal records with an electronic public procurement advertiser. And a single 10-day appeal deadline is also prescribed, regardless of the type of procedure, because it is about obtaining small or high value. I would also discuss just one more topic here, you will remember when former Health Minister Sinisa Varga, without a public tender, was the job of insurance 42 hospitals, which were estimated at 50 million kuna, awarded to Gras Savoye Croatia, owned by the former president of Croatia's insurance company Hrvoje Vojkovic, who made a profit of 7 million kuna. At the time, it was not without echo, Mr. Varga did it in a legitimate way, it is not disputed, however it is certainly to argue that it was done the same by the Zagreb Holding company whose budget for insurance of 30 million kuna was also not, who did not consider it necessary to call such a competition but simply hired brokers with an explanation that the brokerage service for the client was free of charge. So I want to problem this insurance broker issue in relation to the context of public procurement because the Public Procurement Act does not treat insurance brokers but is users of public procurement order past the system as a free service. And that freeness of that service is actually an illusion. In fact, brokers are always installed in premiums and insurances around 15% of the premium price the public-provider ultimately pays through the insurance premium. So insurance companies pay about 75 million kuna a year to broker fees. Their service is certainly positive in the preparation of the insurance tender itself and the user is indeed benefiting from this good broker service. But we should know in advance how much they charge that percentage of the premium. In competitive countries it is much less than it is done in Croatia. There's about 5% of them around here know these percentages go up to 15%. And finally, of course, I hope that all of us at the Club are the representatives of the Independent Lists, that this new Public Procurement Act will contribute to more efficient public procurement processes and more transparent and meaningful spending of public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21706	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is one of Klisovic's respected representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21707	Thank you very much. Mr. Kristic, here's in your discussion when you mentioned that some public procurement was made illegal, but in order to open the debate from them you encouraged me to one of my ideas that I would like to say here and here, and it's obviously necessary to decide on public procurement to use ethnic principles, ethnic principles. Since they have been raised quite high, for example for some public figures including politicians much more than for citizens, I expect from politicians in terms of the implementation of ethnic ones, perhaps we should also do some ethical code for people who deal and who decide through the procurement committees. Public procurement as we have today had the opportunity to hear countless times is perceived in the public as a litter of corruption in the public sector. As such we must... very seriously and must restore the citizens' trust in these institutions because every day it is increasingly lost that we have more and more cases of proven corruption in public procurement or irregularities or intricacies. And in that sense, education is the key to making decisions through the Public Procurement Committee is the key to the successful implementation of this good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21708	Thank you. They will answer, at least there is no real question, the esteemed Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21709	I absolutely agree, I agree, and I think we all share the same opinion that it is actually the key to successful public procurement in human education. Prescribing an ethical code would certainly be desirable and precisely for the reasons you said, and that is to restore the pummeled trust in the public system institutions in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21710	Thank you. And the next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21711	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, colleague Maro. You mentioned about 40 billion kunas to be spent in public procurement during the year, and we all know that this is the biggest corruption in the state of Croatia. I did comment on Mrs. Taritash earlier, asking for a price just to say in Gunja's house, how much they cost up to 2,000 euros. And the average house should, here I'm getting some emails and messages from 600, 700 euros per square. Therefore, the lady explained nicely that it was all transparent, that everything could be seen. At the end of all these public procurements made in the Croatian state and given to certain ministries and certain companies have gone to corruption and they spend it beautifully through the papers and no one asks them any more. And this is very easy to prove in this country, but it seems all that is done is all that is right and we all know and we see that this money has been thrown practically into someone's pockets, and the Croatian state and the Croatian people have received very, very little of it. So that's my question, 15 thousand contracts are made, how many corruptions are there, how many local settings are there, so I don't tell the state, the ministries, and when is this really going to come up with one fair, legal and human thing that once this people starts to have value from what we throw, we don't throw but about that turns out to be 40 billion? And what happened? We don't see much of anything and there's no money. But we can see that certain companies, some people who work for the state, are making tremendous progress quickly and that their companies are enormously rich and not so much work, but precisely those benefits and similarities that the ministries give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21712	Thank you. Here's the esteemed Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21713	Thank you, dear fellow Music. Well, I agree with you. Surely one large part of the money spent on corrupt actions is not controversial, this should be done by institutions and should always invite all those who know about such actions to report such actions. I believe that this law, which we are discussing here today and which will probably be adopted in the Croatian Parliament on Friday, will also contribute to making such actions as little as possible because it certainly raises one level of transparency of this law and the processes themselves that are carried out within the public procurement process to a higher level. What is important and what I have mentioned, the key to the success of good procurement is indeed in these previous processes, procedures and what my colleague was saying in the education of staff. Because no matter how much money goes to corrupt operations, so much believe goes to intricacies in these procedures, ill-prepared procurement procedures, lost disputes that occur due to mishandled procedures, etc. And that is why I also support the regulation of a certain kind of ethical code so that even among those officers who conduct public procurement procedures that we believe would pour another additional amount of responsibility towards the public money they have. Still, it's about a third of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21714	Thank you. And the next club of MPs will be those of the National Minorities on behalf of whom the distinguished colleague Ermin Lekaj Prussiaj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21715	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry outside the National Minorities Club, will look back on the proposal of the Public Procurement Act. First of all, we hold that the time limit for public consultation on the draft proposal for a 15-day law is too short in view of the importance of the regulation in question and of the comprehensive changes to the Public Procurement Act currently in force. Therefore, the interested public should have been given a longer, more appropriate period within which it would be possible to examine any amendments to this draft law. It is also suggested that the law enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal that we consider inappropriate since the law introduces many amendments and changes to the institutes so far that it requires adaptation and education both by the contracting authority and by the bidder. In addition to the above, we must not forget that the contracting authorities must adapt and publish their internal acts and it is not possible to implement them within a month for the adoption of those acts. It is clear that the legislator's emergency legislation has been in place, but we remind you that the deadline for harmonisation has been two years and that in this way the burden of non-adjustment is transferred to the contracting authorities and bidders. Furthermore, it seems to me that in the new Public Procurement Act, the emphasis is placed on high-value public procurement. We are obliged to implement the directives, but most of it is implemented and the public purchases of small values, and I believe that the provisions on the public procurement of small values that exist in the applicable law should be transposed into the new law. Namely, as far as the procedures are more precise, there is less space for arbitrary interpretations both by the contracting authorities and by the tenderers, and for any complaints. The practice of the State Commission shows which articles of the applicable law are not sufficiently defined as to which parts of that provision we have, we have no complaints. If the provisions of the applicable law have proved to be good in practice and are not contrary to the applicable directives, I believe it should have been retained and transposed into a new law. As regards the monitoring of part of the law relating to sectoral contracting authorities, it is significantly difficult for them to follow parallelly the second and third parts of the law by not being clearly defined before for all provisions to be applied to the part of the law. I therefore propose that the third part of the law applies to sectoral contracting authorities and the second part of the law to refer to contracting authorities and be a clearer definition. As regards the minimum price criteria that have been the only criterion so far, and now the new law is disappearing, it allows the service provider or the goods to no longer focus on what is cheapest, and which may not meet the quality criteria I welcome because in practice the lowest price has always been taken into account, but during the implementation of it there has been unquality work, i.e. the purchase of non-quality goods. It is also important to welcome the fact that the new law no longer requires entrepreneurs applying for tenders for public procurement in the application itself to collect a number of documents to prove their abilities, but can, through a single form, give a statement that they will do so if they are selected as the most favourable bidders. As regards the subcontractor, we are in view of the fact that the selected bidder carries the risk of the job is the only one responsible for the execution of the job, bearing all additional costs related to the opening and insurance of the site, and the cost of issuing guarantees that the contracting authorities should not require that the cost of the costs be also the prices at which the subcontractors carry out their part of the job for the selected bidder. And in line with the above, we suggest that this issue be more precisely regulated by the new Public Procurement Act or sublaws. As regards participation in the preparation of the documentation, i.e. technical consultations, we consider it necessary to establish the obligation to publish in the competition documentation which economic operators took part in the consultation, the contracting authority in the production of technical documentation, and other parts of the competition documentation. So we suggest that a procedure be put in place, i.e. to pass one sublegal act on the implementation of technical consultations. It is also necessary to welcome the introduction of price or cost weight, i.e. Inability to use only the price, i.e. only costs as the sole element of the most economically favourable offer. However, we believe that the proposed weighting 90:10 does not maintain the legislator's intention to increase the application of the most economically favourable offer, and that the weighting should be at least 70:30. We should also stress the need to apply weighting to framework agreements, which are explicitly excluded by the current proposal under Article 284. Namely, as we know, the biggest public procurement procedures are combined procurement procedures and are carried out through the conclusion of a contract under the Framework Agreement. Such procedures sometimes affect over 90% of the Croatian market, and their estimated value is multiple and exceeds the value in individual and public procurement procedures. Therefore, we keep it inappropriate not to apply it exactly if it does not tighten the weight in favour of quality. And lastly, I'd like to say something about deadlines, the length of deadlines for the initiation of appeal proceedings. I noticed that the deadline for the small purchase was 10 days for the initiation of the appeal procedure. I would like to invite you to further consider that the deadline for open public procurement procedures is extended to 15 days, as this would allow the complainants to assess their procedural position better and would facilitate cost-benefit analysis which would lead to a higher level of legal protection. Thank you very much. We will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21716	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21717	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, just one thing. You have advocated the criteria of the best economic offer that we all agree more or less with here, and the lowest price criterion you consider not to be good. On the other hand, you said it was the cheapest way public procurement could get something into the state budget. So I just don't think it's the cheapest way to measure the lowest price because it usually buys bad quality products that require maintenance, which require repairs, and then when you look at the deadline, the depreciation period of a product when you have to fix it turns out that it's more expensive for the state budget than it would be if you took a more expensive and quality product and therefore the quality element in this equation is extremely important. I hope that even in the case of public procurement that this Parliament will work for information equipment or tablets that will also include this element of quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21718	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates. And she is the first to be the distinguished representative of Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21719	Your Honorary Vice President, Your Honor, I see there are more, dear secretary of state. By reading the proposal for a law on public procurement, and teaching on continuous affairs related to the safety and quality of food of our consumers, especially in public institutions such as kindergartens, schools, hospitals, military and police, which are potentially subject to public procurement, I have not met anywhere with any supply criteria in the food sector. It is precisely in these institutions because of the possible main criterion of the lowest price, the possibility of continuous supply of poor quality food, but also of questionable safety that is very high. The directors of institutions because of price pressure in good faith buy the cheapest food, counting that it is the equivalent of quality and price, and health care should have no reason to doubt it. However, it is not always so, and what would certainly change the so - called so - called. short supply chains where due to the short time from production to consumption there would be almost impossible contamination and threatened health care. And the lower quality of food in that case, they certainly wouldn't be able to talk. I just want to point out the practice so far, for example, the student centre as the largest public procurement provider of red meat through the public procurement process has not received any domestic food producers. Furthermore, in our kindergartens, in nursing homes where the most sensitive population is concerned everywhere because of the extremely low purchase price, imported eggs of questionable quality, age, nutritional value, and about the safety of such eggs that I don't even speak. For the sake of all of the above, the HDZ Club amends the final proposal of the Public Procurement Act in Article 284(4), paragraph 7, which reads: when establishing criteria for selecting the most economically favourable offers in which agricultural and food products and food products are being purchased, the contracting authority should take into account the criteria which value the products produced in the quality systems of agricultural food products, seasonally, environmentally integrated products and others. Food produced according to food quality standards laid down in national rules on agriculture and food, and food which has been produced in a sustainable manner and processed by which food is made of a higher value in terms of greater freshness or lower burden on the environment, shorter transport, less transport, less burdened with packaging materials, and in packages made from the environment of acceptable or recycling materials. The current paragraph 7 becomes paragraph 0. The proposed amendment gives the possibility for contracting authorities to choose the most favourable bid under Article 284(2). Public procurement laws may take into account the criteria relating to the subject of the supply of agricultural and food products and foodstuffs, which allow for stronger integration of the agricultural and food production and public sectors while ensuring product freshness, increased use of nutritional values, reduction of transport costs and distribution costs, as well as a reduction of the negative impact of transport on the environment. Generally, the possibility of distribution of supplies to the destination as soon as possible. For example, within no longer than 48 hours of the day of manufacture and that the food of animal origin is entered in the official... base in a manner established by a special regulation. This type of score would ensure the highest possible level of quality and security of food supply to public sector institutions and institutions that are subject to public procurement. Certainly, and nothing less important is that primary manufacturers would provide safe placement of goods in their own environment. I note that most EU members have their own national public procurement action programmes, which is evident from the Austrian Action Plan, which shows that the EU members Finland, France, England, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Sweden, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Belgium, Cyprus, Slovakia, Spain and Hungary have their own national plans, so it would be good for the Ministry of Agriculture to adopt, accordingly, an action plan for the short supply chain in public supply of food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21720	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. In my individual debate, I'm going to list a few thoughts that I've already made during the replicas this morning, which I think I'm going to specifically single out in this individual debate. What I would like to say is that I commend the government that after last week we adopted a tax reform that practically regulates the revenues of the budget both the states and the regional self-government units, and the local self-government, which defines a set of tax laws somewhere around 90 billion kunas of the budget, I say state or unit of the district or local self-government. This law also regulates a very important segment of the expenditure side of the state budget and the budget of public enterprises, i.e. all those public or sectoral obligors, the enforcement of the Public Procurement Act, where it was around 41, a little less than 41 billion kuna in 2015. Therefore, at the very beginning of the work of this government we started with important projects, and legislative projects and laws that regulate extremely large somewhere around 30% of GDP. What can be read from the draft law or reasoning is that it is worrying that during 2014 about 42 percent of the procedures that have been conducted, which relate to projects financed by the European Union funds, that these projects have been cancelled, have given up because of the problem, because of certain errors in the procedures that have been conducted, and that is something that really concerns me and that I hold that this law should be allowed to simplify the procedure on the one hand, and that further education of all those participants involved in the implementation of the public procurement law is possible. I have many times in the past few years, as a special project which has been poorly managed thanks to errors in public procurement procedures, cited the editing of the railway Dugo Selo – Križevci where it was billions and 120 million kunas where the three administrations in HZ infrastructure have changed, where three ministers have changed, where three competitions have been held and at the end of the last minute we have reached the deadlines when the ministry on which Mr Butkovic is headed in May this year that project led to the end after which the works began. We could almost lose such a large amount of funding financed by the European Union solely because of our own awkwardness, ignorance, how much it was and the intentions I don't know, but in any case the situation could have happened if we had lost a billion kuna. I still think it was from pre-accession funds. A similar situation is taking place with a project of the Pelje Bridge where we are also due to the existing law and procedure that the witnesses carry out already in the realization and implementation of the competition itself for more than 3 months because of the fact that certain companies, which the complainants reported with their appeal at the procedure of the first stage of the execution of the competition itself, have already moved over 3 months to carry out the procedure, namely the selection of the performers and thus the launch of the works of the Peljega Bridge. What is alarming is that in this procedure the complainants are companies that do not have a single employee, who have perhaps several thousand kunas, which are in any case, cannot be quality, invited, participants in the competition itself, but are allowed to go through the procedure, through the appeal for no reason, without any criteria, without any criteria, without any means of saying any need, can simply delay this project. I hope that the second stage of implementation of the project itself will now be accelerated and that we will be able to move to the realisation of the project as soon as possible, because it is still 375 million euros and over 270 million euros from European funds to the extent that the project of the Peljega Bridge could be co-financed. What should be particularly commended in this project, in this law, is the most economically favourable offer. I think that this will help solve all the problems that were previously caused by the extremely low offer by the performers did not do the job properly, so only after the job was completed was there a lot of problems in the use of the project and then it caused a clear number of consequences in the whole sector where such offers were accepted and where the real performers were eliminated from the individual performers who were now... destroying the whole project at prices. So either way, I'd support a solution like this, and I think we should do it before, but when it's already here, it's certainly to support it. What I would eventually like to single out, it is the amendment of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, which was just explained by counterpart Križanic. I think it is quite current in view of everything that has happened in recent days with food, the quality of food on shelves in Croatia, and I think that in this context the amendment of the Croatian Democratic Community Club is welcome. Anyway, I'll support it, and we at the club support the passing of this law. I expect that the government and that amendment will accept in this way that here are many things that will improve throughout this system of public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21722	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21723	Thank you very much, dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here are my predecessors already said and welcomed the adoption of one of these laws because he was welcomed and not only given state institutions but also by the acceptable sector. I would therefore mention this primary obligation to apply the criteria of the most economically favourable offer, as well as the reduction in the cost of submitting an offer, so where practically, by applying the SPDP form, the tenderers prove, in a statement, their terms and conditions and, in this way, the costs are reduced. By that change, providers who have not been selected have virtually no additional cost, unlike the situation so far, unless they have to visit the site or the like on their own cost. The law is still positive in the part where the cost of guarantees is reduced for the seriousness of the offer from 5% to 3%, as well as the limit of the level of guarantees for the orderly execution of the contract to 10%. So from all of this, it is a clear policy of this government which is turning further towards the private sector and facilitating their business in the Republic of Croatia. I would like to remind you, on the one hand, that the obligation to adopt this law on public procurement itself comes from the EU Directive of 2014 and was an obligation until 18 April of this year to adopt it, so we are 7 months late and the urgency of this procedure is understandable. However, the previous two governments had the opportunity to participate, so they were in the same practical composition, this commission that worked on, therefore, cannot be justified because it did not bring the proposal before and refer to the emergency procedure. Therefore, with this new bill, what I would like to mention as problematic is the authority of the head of the body to decide on public procurement policies, giving him the jurisdiction to adopt 18 sublegal acts, so as the government makes one. So all the acts that the government has passed so far under the current law are now being brought down to the level of administration. I think that this is inappropriate and that we should see how to regulate it because the attitudes of the people working in the administration very often do not have to correspond with the policy of the ministry and government policy. So with this practical proposal, the Public Procurement System Administration gives itself the right to decide on the policy and development of the public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia. I remind you that these implementing acts will have the greatest impact on the development of public procurement in our country and, in practice, since this bill is to a greater extent consistent and the translation and application of the Directives and it will take a lot of resolutions and procedures to correctly interpret the objectives or intentions of the law or the directive itself. The clarifications that are needed, so here's a part of the colleagues mentioned them, part of them gave through the amendments, so I wouldn't point out some things here, and here I gave it to you as proposings in writing. So first of all, it is necessary to define from the notional definition of certain meanings that are interpreted in different ways in this law compared to other legal regulations, here I primarily think of the documentation in the procurement, then the question of the definition of business, the question of the contractor, the question of the award of the contract. So we have a different approach and a different concept of certain concepts in different regulations can lead to certain doubts and ambiguities in the implementation of the law itself. So in addition to these issues, we have problems and misunderstandings in certain solutions, so here's a sectoral remark on Article 28 where sectoral contracting authorities in 2015 have concluded a contract of 8.8 billion kuna and 28.45% of the value of the public procurement contract, and according to the public procurement system's statistical report, if we assume that the same ratio is in the duplicity, then it turns out that out of the 10 billion spent in public and duplicity that this amount is not mandatory to be published, that plan is purchased on their websites while, for example, for example. According to the draft law, contracting authorities are obliged to publish a procurement plan and all contracts are already above 20 thousand kuna. So here it is visible that it is a legal solution that puts certain customers in an unequal position and I think it should be regulated because this provision in part practically raises complete transparency regardless of who the client is. The application to Article 34, therefore, of the exemption in Article 34, allows the contracting authority, when performing works, building facilities at a potential archaeological site, to say directly contract the work of archaeological works with an archaeological museum or any other financial study, whether with an economic museum or a construction project with a building college and the like, if that is how these prices are done, and whether certain funds are distributed directly within such contracting entities, or whether public funds are poured into private hands away from public and transparent procedures. Also in Chapter 5, there is a need to harmonise certain concepts, hence, the central public procurement body, so who is the central public procurement body. The definition therefore states that it is the contracting authority which carries out the central procurement activities while Article 5 defines that the contracting authorities are public and sectoral contracting authorities. We now have specific definitions of public and sectoral, however, whether this means that the contracting authority can obtain works and services from the contractor with which the sectoral contracting authority has concluded a contract. So this is a chapter and legal terminology there is not harmonised and it is doubtful why it is because we believe that there was a better solution in this envisaged previous law. Also, in Chapter 6 as regards occasional public procurement, which was carried out under the existing law, there were no specific objections in application, and we believe that practically in this way the law may be extended rather than shortened for the additional four articles because nothing is particularly regulated. For example, in accordance with Article 215(3), the contracting authority may not require a guarantee for the orderly performance of the contract in excess of 10% of the value of the contract without additional value tax. In practice, this provision places the contracting authorities who are not in the VAT system in an unequal position, by ordering which VAT is the cost, so we suggest that those words be deleted without additional value tax and the application of the formulations referred to in Article 294. I would still comment on Article 284(2) where it is proposed to limit the percentage, for example. 5% of the criteria, qualifications and experience of staff, as non-limitation may result in a situation such as in the case of services, where such a criterion is given greater importance than the price to lead to a situation where the contracting authority chooses between an unexperienced low-cost bidder and on the other hand an experienced bidder with a high price of its service and is already seen in the guidelines drawn up by a chamber so far. So, all in all, this bill makes significant progress in the system itself, but in any case it opens up some of the dilemmas that, in this until the final adoption, I think should be respected and corrected so that practically those who are directly engaged in its implementation have as little dilemma as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21724	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21725	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Dalic with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, has been said quite a bit, so I will strive for a brief debate and since I have made main remarks on this law I will say in the main lines what I see is positive in this law. First of all, I have to say that this is a huge law and I congratulate all those who worked and who made it but it's really not easy to make such extensive matter, and here it has 450 members to put into a whole. What is the objective of this law is certainly to protect the public interest and what is most important is transparency especially when we talk about the dung supply, and this transparency provides an equal position for all public procurement participants and thus promotes competitiveness. Finally, more efficient use of public funds is ensured. Of course, it is also important to protect the interests of all businesses and the minister, according to the ministry's estimates, said that discharging the economy with these changes would amount to around 40 million kuna. The cost-reduction effects for the contracting authorities are more difficult to calculate and are more difficult to display quantitatively. That's what the minister herself said in her statement, she made in one statement. What is very important is that all participants are educated, in fact stakeholders, not participants, but stakeholders, because in this way all will benefit more from it. And now let's go back to these criteria that are set in quantitative criteria other than price. There is a great deal of importance, commissions, and it is important for the orderlies to be educated and to be able to set good and clear criteria so that they can then be selected and defended later on. What I would like, and I don't know how much here with my colleague Klisovic, I've been discussing this topic, would be able to take some criteria that will certainly help to preserve jobs in certain environments, which will help the local population stay in those areas and what their HDZ colleagues have been saying is that especially those products that are made from domestic production are easier to place on the market. Of course, I see the danger of us signing everything in accession negotiations with the EU and protecting competition, but if there is enough wisdom and intelligence, I think that some of these measures can be invested in criteria that will then decide which entrepreneur will eventually get a job. And in the end I just want to say one thing, and it's very important, I think I've read it in law, it's protection under contract. It is very important that the money with the pay directly to the debtors, i.e. Cooperatives that there's no situation where they do their job and the contractor's money gets to never transfer them to their account. I think I saw that provision in law, and I find that extremely important. And finally, a lot of amendments have been proposed to improve this law, I will personally support this law but I also hope that some of the amendments that have been very good especially from the opposition have come to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21726	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. He's not here. He's losing his right to debate. After that, the individual debate was held by distinguished representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister and my associates once again, and I would like to say that the purpose of this law is primarily to claim ways of quality spending of public funds in order to provide services and products of quality to public authorities to determine their business towards citizens as they wish. There's been a lot, so here's a lot of things I've been meaning to say during the debate. So I'm just going to stick to a few of them that seem particularly important to me. The issue of preventing the abuse of the Institute of Appeal and the increased transparency of the proceedings is particularly important. In fact, I highly welcome this new institute of consultation before the public tender, and I think that there should be one possibility that a bidder who thinks that after the public procurement process has been completed will not be able to do so for reasons he knew during the public consultation process. And by then, he should have, therefore, initiated, initiated that there are problems on the basis of which he would tear down the competition later. In this way, however, a large number of abuses by the Institute of Appeal would reduce both the efficiency and speed of public procurement, which is very important from the perspective of the public authorities that need products and services. The second thing, I believe that the competitiveness of the bidder cannot arise, is based on violations of laws or collective agreements that regulate workers' rights. Therefore, if the bidder does not pay the wages to workers, and by law it is mandatory, unless it pays pension or health insurance, such an offeror by me should be excluded from the further course of public procurement. Because competitiveness cannot be based on violations of laws and collective agreements. In addition, I also spoke to the board that it is very important, taking into account, of course, and taking into account, the fully European acquis and all the rules of the competition on the common European market, however, to provide a way to support Croatian exporters who also have to obtain references on the domestic territory so that they can sell their products outside because they are very often told out there if the Croatian helmet is not good for Croatian soldiers, and it is not good for anyone else. If the patrol ship is not good for the Croatian Coast Guard or the police, then you will not sell it outside, it is not good for us either. Therefore, it seems very important to me as an economic government policy that it always has in mind respecting the European acquis to find ways for Croatian exporters to get the opportunity to win the competitions. Since many competitions are given in the preparatory phase to compile tender documentation to foreign houses, foreign consulting houses which he then adapted to the standards of his bidders, not Croatian bidders. And the last thing I would particularly like to stress is the question of education. We know that no matter how good the law we have is that people always decide who are members of the Public procurement Committee, people decide who will be the best bidder. And people are not immune to the corrupt factor, so I repeat once again the proposal to consider a code of ethics that regulates the behaviour of people involved in public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21728	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted individual debates and now the prominent Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Martina Dalic will give the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21729	... the proposals, remarks and constructive debate we had on this law. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I'd also like to thank everyone who worked on this law. It is clear that this law and its preparation have gone through three Croatian governments for various reasons. However, what is an extremely valuable feature of this law is that in this long, relatively long period he was prepared in consultation and in cooperation with entrepreneurs, with associations of entrepreneurs precisely in cooperation with those involved in law enforcement, thus being participants in the procurement process. And I just think that this consultation process has allowed us to have in front of us a quality law that represents an important step in simplifying flexibility by increasing the transparency of the procurement process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21730	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this law, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 and the first point will be the final draft law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 48. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 15.55 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21731	We move to the next item, the vote on the final proposal of the Public Procurement Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.37. Representative Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21732	Mr. President, thank you. I tried to deliver the amendment this morning, actually four amendments. One is longer, three is shorter. It's only about changing certain words. And I know that, I've been told that the amendment for formal procedural reasons will not be accepted now. But I want to express my final concern here, and that's two, three days ago, here in the debate, you who listened, said it was a potential savings policy, certainly two billion kunas...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21733	Representative Lovrinović, I really apologize, but we cannot allow the debate in the middle of a vote on points. Unfortunately, there are procedures. I would ask you to submit the amendments before.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21734	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, we just haven't even started the vote, that's what this is about. So I ask you, do you want this budget and these citizens to pay 2 billion more kuna or not? [[President: We have not begun.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21735	Representative Lovrinović, I really apologize if there are procedures, there is a protocol. I would ask you to submit the amendments within the scheduled time limit and now we are continuing since the vote has begun.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21736	All right. Here's another sentence. So the procedure is more important to you than saving...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21737	I have to rule you out, and I have to take the word away. We continue with the vote on the final proposal of the Public Procurement Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.37. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDS, HSLS, HDSSB, the HDZ Representatives' Club, SDP Representatives' Club, Josko Klisovic's representative, the HNS and HSU's Club of Representatives. The amendment tables are divided into benches. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Martina Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Amendment number 1 was tabled by the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21738	The government accepts all amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee. So this amendment 1 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21739	In that case, Amendment 2 and Amendment 3 also included the other amendments that we will come up with in turn were included in the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21740	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21741	Amendment number 4 was submitted by the SDP representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21742	The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21743	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21744	And I'm sorry. The government does not accept this amendment since the sectoral contracting authority must adopt a procurement plan but does not have to publish it. In particular, the sectoral contracting authorities are largely state-owned companies, whether local or regional self-governments operating on the market in terms of competition. This competition may be partially limited in certain cases but competition is still a competition. And since the purpose of the publication of the procurement plan is to enable economic operators to gain insight into potential business opportunities in order to create a situation in the event of the publication of purchasing plans with sectoral contracting authorities that their competition can obtain information on their business activities and intentions on the market. On the other hand, the same sectoral contracting authority has an obligation to publish a contract register, in accordance with the principle of transparency. And for the public contracting authorities in the law already there is a publication, the obligation to publish the procurement plan. For these reasons, we cannot accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21745	Does the representative of the amendment proposer want to take the floor? Representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21746	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, first of all, I had the Law on the right to access information that also applies to those persons. But much more important than the biggest defense against corruption? Transparency. Transparency, so data availability. The public must know what companies owned by the Republic of Croatia are doing. A few days ago, you suspended the public tender as a way to appoint the management of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. This ensures that these companies owned by the Republic of Croatia will not have to notify the public what they are getting, when they plan to acquire it, which is the way to corruption. Just that and nothing else. That is why we insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21747	I ask esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote. Are those amendments included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. The amendment didn't get the required majority. The following amendment is listed by the Legislative Committee as well as the 6th, 7th, 8, 9, 10th, 11th and 12th, and they are already included in the final draft law. The 13th Amendment was submitted by the HNS, HSU's Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21748	The amendment by the Government does not accept the fact that it is not possible by law to impose an obligation to seek clarification, since Article 53(2) of Directive only allows economic operators to seek clarification. Therefore, according to the existing text of the law, economic operators have the opportunity to seek clarifications in relation to the procurement documents. However, the legal obligation to demand this clarification is not possible because such a thing would be contrary to the acquis. Therefore, the amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21749	Do the amendment promoters want to take the floor? Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21750	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Government. Namely, there are legal gains of the Republic of Croatia and the final judgment of the Administrative Court number U-231/12-9 of 12 April 2012 and our amendment was based on the ruling of the Administrative Court which was ruled in this direction and this would only be an explanation and a relief of the whole procurement procedure. Please have a nice vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21751	I'd like respected MPs and MPs to approach the vote. Are those amendments included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not received a majority of votes to be included in the final draft law. The 14th and 15th amendments are from the Legislative Committee, which is already included in the final draft law. The 16th amendment was submitted by the HDS, HSLS, HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21752	The government does not accept this amendment for the following reasons. The provisions of the final proposal of the law prescribe that the application of commercial entities must be indicated in the procurement documents on the basis of the principle of transparency and the principle of equal treatment so that all economic operators, when making their offers, know under which conditions the contract is to be executed or whether the trade relationship will apply. We therefore assess that this contributes to legal certainty and reduces the possibility of different interpretations in practice during the execution of a concrete contract. The following amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21753	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go. [[Intruder Hrg: Yes.]] Mr. Horg's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21754	Thank you very much. Well, we'll see in practice what's actually going to happen. This was one proposal for an amendment that came out of the profession of just such sectors, but I accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21755	Since the amendment has been withdrawn, we will not vote. The 17th amendment is from the Legislative Committee, which is already included in the final draft law. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21756	The Government does not accept the amendment because the provision of Article 254 of the final proposal for a law is transposed into the provision of a Directive of Article 57(4). The transfer of that provision contains so-called the university grounds for exclusion, which means that what is proposed by this amendment is one part already covered by the law. We also estimate that the final draft law protects labour rights and on the basis of work and on two levels. Article 252 provides that contracting entities are obliged to exclude from the procurement process those entities which have failed to fulfil the obligation to pay taxes or have failed to fulfil the obligation to pay pension and health insurance. In addition, Article 220 provides for the obligation to control the payment of the tax obligations and obligations made to pension and health insurance. On the other hand, following the existing Article 254 right through the pecuniary exclusion grounds, the contracting authorities may, in each particular procedure, further control economic operators on a much wider basis than the protection of workers' rights. The following amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21757	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go. Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21758	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say that most of the MPs who discussed this topic pointed out that the heart of corruption is actually in public procurement, when we talk about the public sector. How much the ruling coalition, MOST and HDZ care about transparency, how much it cares about fighting corruption in the public sector, in public procurement, has shown our amendment's refusal to seek transparency. We all understand that transparency is the most effective anti-corruption medicine. As far as my amendment is concerned, I ask that a step further be taken to establish the social responsibility of public procurement, and it is not socially responsible when the winning contest is won by a bidder who does not pay salaries to workers, who does not pay pension and health benefits to his workers. If in other parts of the law it exists as a solution then I don't see the problem why this couldn't be adopted. Workers, especially those who get lower wages, minimum wages, we've heard 50,000 of them, in the worst situation ever when they don't get paid by their employer. Is what kind of message we're sending these people, is this country, this government behind the promotion and protection of their rights? What kind of message we send to the employers, that your behavior is not desirable but acceptable. What kind of message are we sending to society? The rule of law is just a declaration, we won't spend it in everyday life. If you want to start personal spending as one of the drivers of economic development then pay the workers, pay the people who will start it because from this legal solution I do not see a guarantee that whoever wins in a public tender and does not pay his obligations to workers, especially the salary after winning the competition will pay the salary. There's no guarantee, and that's why I'm asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21759	I ask the esteemed deputies and MPs to approach the vote and whether those amendments are to be included in the final draft of the law. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment did not receive the necessary majority to be included in the final draft law. 19th, 20th and 21st, the 22nd amendment is from the Committee on Law already included in the final draft law, the 23rd amendment is from the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21760	The government does not accept this amendment because the amendments are already contained in the final draft of the law. In the final draft of the law, there is only one criterion for selecting offers, which is the most economically favourable offer. This criterion, in certain exceptional cases, may have a relative price or cost weight of 100% and this is already stated and contained in the existing draft law and concerns situations of the negotiating process, defence and public security procurement and diplomatic and consular representations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21761	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21762	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Vice President, what you just said is not true. The article in question, which intervenes with the amendment, states that the price criterion in these situations can be above 90%. But it doesn't stand and clearly that price can be the only criterion. It is in this direction that this amendment goes in order to make it clear and unequivocal, so that there are no long and expensive disputes, so that tens and dozens of complaints are not declared and will be declared because the client will place the price as the only criterion of the offer. And you know what's gonna happen to you? In order to avoid this, the contracting authorities will write that the price is a criterion that participates in the overall weighting with 99%. Now, I ask you to clearly and loudly prescribe that there are exceptional situations, such as the area of defense, defenses in which a special criterion can be set that price is the only way we choose an offer. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21763	I ask the honourable MPs and MPs to approach the vote, are they to be included in the final draft of the law for that amendment? The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment did not receive the majority of votes required to be included in the final proposal. The next proposal is from the 24th proposal from the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21764	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21765	thus it becomes an integral part of the final draft law. The 25th and 26th, 27th and 28th, 29th and 30th, 31st and 32st amendments were proposed by the Legislative Committee already adopted and incorporated into the final draft of the law. The 33rd amendment is from the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21766	The government does not accept this amendment for the following reasons. The significant infringements of the procurement procedure are provided for and prescribed by this final proposal. Among other things, at the request of the State Commission to control the procurement procedure. Such a proposal and such a request were also expressed in the annual report of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2014 and 2015. In these reports, the State Commission pointed out that, according to the applicable legal solution in the appeal procedures, there is no concern about the protection of public interest and that it is necessary to introduce control precisely through significant infringements of the procedure to be taken into account by the State Commission in its official capacity. Moreover, given that public procurement procedures financed from European funds are subject to the audit procedure and several years after the implementation, it is estimated that this measure will contribute to reducing illegality in public procurement procedures which can lead to financial corrections in the part of the use of funds. The adoption of the proposed amendment would narrow down the powers of the state commission and reduce the positive effects of the proposed measure. The following amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21767	Here you go, the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21768	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister. I could not agree with your argument for the simple reason that this amendment is more precisely governed by the legal provision and further stresses the stage of the appeal procedure. The point is that complaints that have been tied to individual watch. In this way, the procedure would be more effective and faster and therefore I would ask that the above-mentioned amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21769	I ask the MPs and MPs to approach the vote, are they in favour of putting the above amendment in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not received a majority of votes to be included in the final proposal. The next amendment 34 in a row is also from representatives of the HNS Club, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21770	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It does not accept it since already in the preceding part of the debate on amendments, we rejected the amendment to Article 202 because it does not comply with the acquis. In this respect, the same reasons for the non-compliance with the acquis cannot be accepted either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21771	Proposer of the amendment, representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21772	Thank you very much. It is therefore logical that the Government does not accept the order of all these amendments because, in turn, these subsequent amendments are bound to the provision of Article 202. But let me do it again. We have put the amendment to Article 202 which is based on the judgment of the Administrative Court of 2012 As we said in the debate, every time the law is passed should be a step forward and be better. Our amendments are only in terms of improvement and on the basis of the legal gains we had with the previous Public Procurement Act, so I will pray nicely that regardless of the Government has not accepted the amendment to Article 202 and this is the no-technical consequence of Article 202 but that I am voting with these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21773	Thank you, counsellors, Dark Taritash. I ask the MPs and MPs to vote on whether the above amendment is included in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not raised enough votes to be included in the final draft of the law. The 35 amendments are also from the HNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21774	The Government does not accept that this amendment also relates to amendments to Article 202 which have not been accepted, and consequently the Government does not accept this amendment either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21775	The representative of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21776	In accordance with the reasoning which was related to Article 202 and the preceding amendment, I would ask nicely to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21777	Would you like to join the vote, please, if that amendment were to be included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not raised enough votes to be included in the final draft of the law. The 36th Amendment is from the Legislative Committee already included in the final draft law. The 37th Amendment is from the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21778	The government doesn't accept. The amendment again related to the rejected amendment to Article 202 which is why it cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21779	Representative for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21780	Thank you very much. So, I can only repeat the explanation. The amendment to Article 202 also caused a series of amendments related to all other articles. We have very responsibly structured our amendments in a way that would not be to accept Amendment 202 of some kind of difficulties in law enforcement. Therefore, there will be a number of other amendments that are subsequently related to Article 202. And I will beg every time to vote on the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21781	I ask the honourable MPs and MPs to vote whether the 37th Amendment should be included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. That amendment did not receive a sufficient number of votes to be included in the final draft law. The 38th Amendment is from the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21782	The government doesn't accept. Once again related to the unaccepted amendment to Article 202 and, consequently, we cannot accept this either.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21783	Representative for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21784	Thank you very much. So we're asking to vote on this amendment. I don't want to be some kind of prophet, but when it turns out in practice that this amendment to Article 202 has certainly been necessary we will probably be able to change and supplement this law to have this whole set, but let's wait and give time. But please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21785	I ask the honourable MPs and MPs to vote on whether this amendment will be included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that the amendment has not received enough votes to be included in the final draft law. The 39th Amendment is from the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21786	The Government does not accept this amendment with the same explanation as so far concerning the unaccepted amendment to Article 202.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21787	Representative for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21788	Please vote on the amendment. In accordance with Article 202 and this order, the reasons for the non-admission of amendments to Article 202 were resulting in the consequence of the non-admission of the amendments to Article 202.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21789	I ask the MPs and MPs to vote whether the above amendment should be included in the final draft law? The vote is over. The amendment did not get enough votes to be included in the final proposal. The 40th amendment is also from the HNS, HSU's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21790	The Government does not accept again because it is related to the unaccepted amendment to Article 202.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21791	Representative for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21792	Thank you very much. We ask to vote on the above-mentioned amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21793	Would you please vote on whether the above amendment should be included in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that most of the votes of the amendment did not get enough to be included in the final draft of the law. The 41st Amendment is from the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21794	The Government does not accept this amendment because Article 425(4) to which the amendment applies does not contain at all a word of appeal in its statement. Therefore, this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21795	Representative for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21796	Thank you very much. So it's all about Article 202 and not accepting the amendments in Article 202 so you saw, on a regular basis, Article 425 that this is a set of amendments. We will see what practice is going to be and we will see how this Article 202 will in practice really be implemented and somehow based on the experience we think that not so quickly or quickly we will see about the work that the law is going to come into change and supplement and it will show that what we have done, and we have only done to improve and simplify the procedure that we have done well, but the Government has decided not to accept it. So I ask that this amendment be voted on as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21797	I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote are they in favour of the 41st Amendment being included in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not received enough votes to be included in the final proposal. The 42nd amendment is from the Club of Representatives of the HNS-HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21798	The Government does not accept, as it relates to the unaccepted amendment to Article 202.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21799	Representative for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21800	Thank you very much. Please vote on the above-mentioned amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21801	Would you please vote for that amendment to be included in the final draft law? The vote is over. That amendment did not receive a sufficient number of votes to be included in the final draft law. The 43rd amendment is from the Legislative Committee already included in the final draft law because it was adopted by the Government. The 44th Amendment is from the Club of Representatives of the HNS-HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21802	The government does not accept this amendment, given that the proposed expression of amendments is unclear and the expressions are not clear which ministry should give prior consent, since the final draft law does not contain in any provision the definition of the ministry nor is the ministry mentioned anywhere in the text. In addition, the promoter believes that regardless of the explicit borrowing of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, it can draw up sectoral guidelines for public procurement, therefore the Government does not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21803	Representative for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21804	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, it was sectoral guidelines. And in the debate we held on behalf of clubs and different clubs, as well as individual ones, there was a need to create sectoral guidelines. There are certain... that they already have today and somehow it was logical that it did this to HGK and it seemed to us that it was an absolute place to accept this amendment for the simple reason to facilitate work. Through a debate that was defined and could be found to be public procurement, public procurement is a learning job. Those involved in public procurement are also taught by the local self-government unit and would be a continuous process. It seemed to us to make guidelines in consultation with the HGK would only make it easier for all those participating in public procurement and managing public money, and in that sense we felt there would be no obstacle for the government to accept this amendment. But as the government has decided not to accept any amendment in terms of improving this law, I ask that this amendment be voted on as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21805	I ask the honourable MPs and MPs to vote whether the 44th Amendment should be included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not received enough votes to be included in the final draft law. The 45th amendment is from the Committee on Legislative Law adopted by the Government and was included in the final draft law. And the 46th Amendment is from the SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21806	The Government does not accept this amendment because it considers that the existing and envisaged transition period proposed in the Six Months Act is sufficient to adapt the system to the new criteria for the application of the most economically favourable offer. In particular, given the planned activities of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts in the part of education and how regular education and those supported by the EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21807	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21808	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Vice President. So what's this amendment about? We have seen or suggested that a law that has 450 articles or more that makes the biggest change in the public procurement system since it officially applies in Croatia does not take effect for six months but for a year. Every time the Croatian Parliament has made such serious changes in a legislative area, let us remember, for example, the amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, for example, the amendments to criminal legislation, not to mention the Law on Criminal Procedure, where almost three years of transitional period has been released, in order for the people who need to apply these laws to be prepared to do so, we have left an appropriate period. In this case, this law applies to all bodies within the Republic of Croatia, to all units of regional self-government, to all units of local self-government, to all legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia and we simply have to bear in mind that the persons who need to apply this law are not ready for this. No matter what you say about preparing a wide system of education, six months simply isn't enough to include all those who should prepare this law. This proposal was otherwise not based on the SDP's Club of Representatives, but on the proposal of persons who are professionally involved in the education of people who use public procurement. They don't care because they're going to implement law enforcement or not, but they know what they're facing and they know what the problems are about to arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-06-0.u21809	I ask MPs to approach the vote. Is it for the 46th Amendment to be included in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not received enough votes to be included in the final draft law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Public Procurement Act. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 101 for, 18 abstentions and 3 against the Law on Public Procurement adopted along with the amendments adopted.
