ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11703	Thank you, Mr. President. We have, on the agenda, point 4 which has been published before, the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the financing of the water economy. You're changing that now. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The fact is that Article 226, 227 gives you the right to change the agenda but not in this way. I am interested in the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure, it is not just today, it is constantly changing, but here is the specific basis for which article of the Rules of Procedure today to skip the fourth item of the established agenda for 15, 16 and 17 June and to be placed, respectively, in item 5 and 6 on the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11704	Here, I'll answer to your colleague, Petrina. If you'd been here yesterday, you could have heard why. First of all, yesterday this point was announced. So unfortunately you weren't here in the Parliament, so you couldn't hear it. The second thing, colleagues heard and this point was announced. Why are these points not, because they are not prepared, namely the committees have not worked them out. And since we don't have the board's opinions, and you know that we always try to have the board's opinion and the government's opinion as well, if we can do points, because it's the very essence of Parliament's work. We didn't have an opinion, so we don't have the board's opinion on those points. And when we get the board's opinion, of course, then they'll come.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11705	I'm asking on the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure? Great, but does he have any suggestions?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11706	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11707	Article 226 to 228 clearly states if there is no opinion of the action or of the applicant... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11708	We can't talk like that. You asked the question, I answered you clearly, and now if you haven't understood it, forgive your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11709	All right, all right. I'm the only one who knows how to break the Rules of Procedure all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11710	Thank you. Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure have never, ever broken down while I'm the president of this House, nor will they, perhaps today, be broken but conscious. But you won't... And I'll explain, and I'll explain why. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I'm sure he hasn't. Here's my colleague, Nakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11711	Thank you, well-respected Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary representatives here today may not be the most ideal moment when we should present these laws and changes relating to the health system of the Republic of Croatia, but on the other hand, when we look at it, we can ask ourselves what is the right time. We are aware of the facts and burdens of our health system, aware that Croatia is one of the EU's least isolated countries for the health system. We have also warned from the very beginning that it is very important that in this system we introduce quality, introduce order, transparency, and financial stability of the system. Without the financial stability of the system, we will not be able to provide health care to our citizens. What it means to introduce order here is a series of fact that when you try to introduce order into the system you have a number of obstructions, you have a number of observations, you have a number of disagreements, but the only thing you don't have is a solution. In order to provide quality health care to our citizens, we must enable the financial stability of the system. What does that mean? So the health system of the Republic of Croatia was invested in 3.5 billion kuna from the state budget 2 years ago. 2 years later, new debts amounting to €2.5 billion were created. Is that the end of it? It's not. That story goes on. And since this year, as of the beginning of this year, in the first 4 months, hospitals have continued to create debts in the system that amount to over 200 million kuna. But not only the hospitals, what surprised us further was the insight into the state of HZZO, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute where we actually found a new trend in continuing these debts. It's a new 400 million kuna. Which means that in the first 4 months of this year we have been creating additional losses in the health care system that amount to about 600 million kuna. What does that mean? This means that if we continue this way, it is a matter of moment and time when we will stop and not be able to provide any health care to our citizens at all. The way we handled it and tried to solve it so far is borrowing. So we always went to settle things inside the system for new debts. We saw recently when Minister of Finance Maric went outside, which means, in what ways and under what conditions we can borrow. So what's left of us is to reorganize our system, put our system at the limits of sustainability, so that the only way that we can provide and ensure that people can feel safe with our health system. I'm sorry here today, when right here at this very moment we're only talking about this part of the law, I'm sorry I'm not presenting the reform of the hospital system today. I'm sorry because I don't believe that rarely any representative in this House would be who wouldn't be against, who wouldn't have anything to say that you don't touch him, that you don't touch his hospital, that you don't touch his ends. But we have to face reality, what we have inside the system and how to maintain it. This is why we propose to increase the maximum amount of participation of insured persons in health care costs from 60.13% of the budget base to 90.20% of the budget base, which actually means increasing the maximum amount of participation from 2 to 3000 thousand kuna. We are aware that, at this point, 2 million Croatian citizens are freed from the payment of follow-up and free of payment of supplementary health insurance. This does not apply to those who pay for supplementary health insurance, so the new additional million and 600,000 citizens will pay for them. So this part applies to only one small part of the public who does not pay for supplementary health insurance. Also, the draft amendment of this law prescribes an obligation for insured persons to pay an emergency hospital check-up fee, for non-emergency patients, I repeat, for non-emergency patients and only for emergency hospital reception where... the request for emergency medical assistance, which includes the provision of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in emergency hospital receptions and the amount and compensation will be determined by the Croatian Health Insurance Office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, we happen to have a series of non-editations within the system, we have over 60% of patients coming into the united emergency hospital receptions that are not emergency patients today. Over 50% of people come without a manual and it happens that in fact those patients who are really and seriously sick are at risk because waiting to check out sometimes 8, 10 or 12 hours. It happened to us that people who have a heart attack just because they're decent, which will wait calmly and patiently until the checkup waits eight hours before they're examined. One more thing, there have been a lot of calls about how it's possible that non-emergency patients at an emergency hospital will suddenly have to participate in paying these costs. In doing so, no one asked a question, and what about those who came with the manual. What about those people who were decent, went to their doctor, 50% of them, came for a manual and came to the emergency room? Why don't we tell them that they can come too, open the door, close the family medicine offices, and we'll have chaos. It's not our only exclusive to understand each other. The British health minister asked his citizens when they had bronchitis, when they had diabetes, when they had hypertension, when they had asthma not to come to emergency reception because they waited for more than 20 hours. So what's important inside that, it's important to edit the system. As a consequence of what we have now, we have a steady increase in costs within emergency reception. And because of the huge number and flow of patients who are not really urgent you have a accumulation of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures that occur in emergency receptions. Doctors working under a lot of pressure. Any patient who comes in here is looking for diagnostic tests. These money for such unnecessary diagnostic tests we pay for ourselves. In this emergency reform that we have organised, we have put the possibility of increasing the number of teams 1, meaning where doctors and nurses are located in the parts of Croatia, from which the population is emigrated where the large depopulation is, in areas where people live less and less like Ilock, like Drenovac, like Orahovica, Grubišni polje, Hrvatska Kostanica, Gline, Slunja, Benkovc, Trilj, Orebić, etc. So, just by increasing teams in such places, we're going to reduce unnecessary patient driving to the hospital, unnecessary costs and unnecessary burden within the system itself. By amending this law, we will also provide a benefit that has not been so far and that people who have suffered from acute psychiatric disease, health care is fully derived from the means of compulsory health insurance. It will also extend the circle of insurance that will ensure the right to remuneration during the temporary incompetence for work during which there has been an termination of the employment relationship or to carry out personal work without the application of the eight-day conditions previously established temporary incompetence, which means that so far people who have had a working contract for a certain period of time if there has been an injury to their work within eight days of termination of work have no longer been entitled to any compensation. So, with these amendments to the law, we want to allow this to happen until the last day until they work if a certain injury or incompetence occurs that they can actually receive compensation for the entire duration of their temporary incompetence to work. We will also technically comply with the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act, the termological in the work relating to the acquisition of status in compulsory health insurance of members of company management and executive directors of companies in order to equalise the conditions for obtaining insurance status in compulsory pension and health insurance and thus equate the obligation to pay contributions to both systems. This law also complies with the provisions of the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex in a work relating to the acquisition or retention of the status of a insured person in compulsory health insurance as a member of the insurance family and the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence during armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia at the time of the Homeland War in a work relating to obtaining insurance status in the compulsory health insurance of persons who have been recognised as victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War and in this respect enables the acquisition of the status of an insured person or insurance undertaking in compulsory health insurance. I propose that these amendments be accepted and complemented by this law because it will actually enable better order to be introduced into the health system and actually increase the financial stability of the health system. If I may, I would continue to amend the second law when we said that the debate would actually be united, and that is the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Health Protection Act. In this law, we want to regulate the obligations of the concessionaires. Concessors are actually doctors who work in their hospitals and do not participate in the work, duty, and preparedness so far. Through the reform of emergency medicine, we predicted that not only doctors from health care homes but also doctors who are concessionists must have doctors, along with hospitals in emergency medicine, weekends and holiday duty. The working hours of doctors today in Croatia who work in primary health care are very questionable. The question is, how many hours a day do you work? This way, we'll make sure everyone does the same thing. All will work 7.5 hours a day and this half hour difference will require time redistribution to ensure work on duty, in emergency medicine, holidays and weekends. There will be no new costs for the health system, it will only be a redistribution of working time. So, working hours for all in Croatia will be from 7 a.m. to 14.30 p.m. and from 13.30 p.m. working hours until 19 p.m. In this way every day half an hour of working time and so far we have it and more actually remains not filled through the redistribution of working time will be allowed to allow doctors who are both in concessions and in health homes to participate in emergency work at the Emergency Medical Services in the outpatient emergency room. This law also aims to regulate the extension of the validity of a solution on the authorisation of the work of the tenants now located in the pharmaceutical activity, the activity of the dental laboratory and individual specialist activities until 31 December 2017. In fact, according to the 1996 law, when the lease was made possible as one option legally possible, it was abolished in 2008 and since then 774 people have actually been in an empty air space where the contract is constantly extended and it is now running out of 30.6. this year. Unless there's an arrangement of their status, they're actually going to be out of the system. In this way, we want to enable the adoption of a law, a full health care law that will regulate their status when they will actually be, their work will be regulated either through concessions or through private work or work in health homes to allow these people not to actually remain outside the system itself and that because of the adoption of the law, the procedure is not extended every 6 months but rather to decide to extend it until 31 December 2017. Here, I, because of the importance and stabilisation of the system and not only of this, are actually some initial laws, initial measures with what we have announced further in order to enable the financial stability of our health system I propose that these laws be adopted and adopted by an emergency procedure because here just as I said difficult financial situation, the difficult financial dubiosis contained in the health system continue and if we do not want to go for new debts, if we do not want to patch up the problems that are in the health system, so it is necessary to implement the reorganisation and rationalization within the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11712	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11713	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you said that all MPs, in order to express their dissatisfaction with the lack of well-organized health care in their neighborhoods. However, the constitution says that all in the Republic of Croatia citizens must have equal health care, the fact that they are violating the systematic Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, mainly in undeveloped areas, and that this local, local, adherence to the local approach that the minister is coming so only strengthened his local community, did not look broadly. So I can testify from former Minister Milinovic, Vlahusic. However, the facts are examples of women in mountainous mountainous areas, undeveloped areas, in Slavonia, Gorski kotar, Lici, Dalmatinska Zagora, for a simple examination, for the ultrasound of the breast come after 6 months if they have a chance to enroll, if they do not enroll, then in a year, two days. So the system isn't very complex. Citizens of these parts are not to blame for the debt of health care, someone else is a debt, former ministers who led, former government. It is necessary to make a clear and clear statement of who is to blame and why these parts are now being moved out solely because of poor health care. That we have on us a centralized couple of cities of health care, and our grandmothers now living in these areas cannot access at all or have an organised transport to emergency, let alone some more serious reviews and health care. The system has been targeted. For who and what? I'm asking you to answer who's to blame for the system, is it the former minister, is it the previous one? Who's to blame what's the state of the system? Surely they are not citizens from these areas who have absolutely no health care or very, very bad. The ambulances when they come for one team are mostly closed doors if they're out on the field, so they're put in danger and life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11714	Dear Minister Dario Nakic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11715	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer it real quick. These are big questions that should be answered long. About what is the situation I will try to answer through this issue of a hospital system within Croatia that is not today a topic, but about our readiness to enter essential reforms. So Denmark is a country that has five and a half million inhabitants, which had 20, 48 acute hospitals. She brought them down to 21. I'll tell you, a country that singles out five times as much as Croatia for healthcare, a country that has five times the GDP of Croatia, and now tell me what would happen if someone in Croatia said that one of our hospitals, and the distance between hospitals in Croatia is 36 km, in the EU 77. So you know what the most basic problem is? Facing reality. We must learn to face reality, we must make decisions that are not popular, we must make decisions that are rational to survive and that the system can be maintained. That's what's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11716	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, Dr. Ines Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11717	Dear academics, President, distinguished parliamentary representatives. So as a parent body, the committee has also considered both laws and our conclusion here is what I'm going to give you. Therefore, in the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained that the adoption of the law by emergency procedure is necessary in order to achieve the ultimate objective, i.e. financial stabilisation of the health system with a reduction of expenditure and at the same time to ensure quality health care for all insured persons of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. This legislative proposal is one of the key reform measures related to changes in the health insurance system in order to reduce the fiscal risks of the health system and in line with the 2016 National Reform Programme. In this connection, it is proposed to increase the maximum amount of participation of insured persons in health care costs from 60.13% of the budget base to 90.20% of the budget base, i.e. an increase in the maximum amount of participation from two to three thousand, thus achieving sustainability of the health system with other reform measures. It should be noted here that this increase does not apply to people with supplementary health insurance. So that'll be paid by insurance companies. The law also provides for the obligation for insured persons to pay an emergency medical check-up fee carried out at the request of the insured person, in the event that the review does not establish an indication of emergency medical assistance, which implies the provision of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures necessary to eliminate the immediate danger to life and health. Any such patient should return to the hospital emergency room, and whoever is in spite of that recommendation to go to another emergency hospital because it does not represent the first, second and third categories to be taken care of in hospital reception, such a patient will pay 150 kuna. All patients will be examined by an emergency physician, but not in the hospital system unless they are first, second and third categories. These patients will pay because they insisted on a checkup, and it could have been done in the hospital emergency room. The Committee members supported the amendments proposed by this law, noting that the aim is not to collect additional income from insurance companies, but that those who are really urgent and threatened have the right to receive quality health care in time, not to abuse the possibility of a system in this way. We also supported the equalisation of insured people with psychiatric diseases, since insurance people who are suffering from acute psychiatric disease will also receive complete care from compulsory health insurance. Under the current law, compulsory health insurance has so far covered the entire cost of treating chronic psychiatric patients. We are changing that distinction here, and it was illogical why so far it has been so. The debate also praised the extension of the circle of insurance undertakings which will ensure the right to remuneration should be noted during the temporary inability to work during which the employment relationship has ceased, i.e. to carry out personal work activities without applying the conditions of 8 days of temporary incompetence previously established. Therefore, insurance undertakings who had a temporary inability to work at the time of termination of their employment, i.e. carried out their activities, due to a new recognised injury to work or occupational disease, as well as mariners on international navigation, would not be subject to a temporary inability to work for at least 8 days prior to termination of employment, i.e. the exercise of personal work in order to exercise the right to remuneration, as this condition could prevent them from exercising their right to do so. So as a committee, we unanimously decided that the law, so many members, meant we had the quorum that came, the colleagues were not present from the opposition. We have proposed that this House adopt the law on amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. We also discussed on the same body the amendments and additions of the Health Protection Act, with the final proposal for a law. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained that the proposed amendments are actually complemented by the law in order to ensure the principle of health care and to implement the full reform of the emergency medicine activity, which is the first reform implemented by this Government within the health system in accordance with the 2016 National Reform Programme, in particular ensuring the availability and strengthening of the role of primary healthcare, regulates the obligation of the concessionaires to participate in the on-call and preparedness. So, the concessionaires by amending the law in 2014 are doctors of family medicine, so it's not the ones from the home of health, it's the concessionaries, they had no obligation to participate in the duty to be on duty in an out-of-patient emergency. We don't understand why it went into such a decision, and we are changing these amendments to the law. So, we've obliged them that doctors concessionaires should also be on duty outside the hospital emergency room. It's about three to four on duty in one year. As indicated, it is necessary to extend the mandatory content of the concession contract. We have also proposed to extend the period of work in private practice until 31 December 2017, and the activity for which the period of termination of work in the lease should be extended is the pharmaceutical activity, the activity of the dental laboratory and individual specialist activities. It has also been pointed out that, as the minister said, even 744 of these health professionals due to the failure to extend this deadline, this law also in the emergency procedure would result in loss of jobs and with regard to the relevant financial effects on the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The debate praised each announced increase in the number of emergency medical teams for 19. I hope, I don't think the minister listed all 19, from Orebic to Croatia's Kostajnica, means all of our edges, those who have had a colleague, Bulj, available to the team 1 emergency medical services. So, in the less developed, devasted areas of Croatia that are characterized by depopulation and emigration. By increasing the number of medical teams by 19 in these places, we raise the quality of life and we all agreed. So the committee also unanimously accepted the proposal for these amendments to the laws and proposed that both laws be discussed today when conditions and voting are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11718	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the debate that we will begin as usual with clubs I just wanted to tell you today we will work without delay due to the extensiveness of the agenda and interest for him. So, we would now move on to the debate and the first on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club will take the word from the esteemed representative Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11719	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, I will present a few sentences concerning amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, and at the very beginning I will say that the SDP Club opposes an emergency procedure and that we ask that this law go into two readings. What, in fact, is proposed by this law, or amendments to the law? Under one increase in participation for patients from 2000 to 3000 kuna. Under two payments to an emergency hospital reception for patients of 150 kuna as announced by Minister Nakic. And under three measures that will literally lead to the abolition of patients' right to travel expenses. All these three measures proposed by this law are at the heart of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And those respected colleagues and colleagues are no more than the day the government falls. And the only question that we can ask here is are you at least a little embarrassed that you're using this moment to guess someone's private interests at the expense of and at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? And in the end, I must congratulate you on the name of the SDP club on this reform law that introduces new imposes on sick people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11720	Thank you very much. We have one replica, distinguished representatives of Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11721	I would once again be connected, I would actually respond to my colleague as I said from 2000 to 3000 is increasing participation but that does not apply to patients, it refers to those who do not pay additional health insurance. And I would only point out once more to you, so most often the diagnosis of those who come to an emergency hospital and who will have to pay those 150 kunas because they won't go to the hospital emergency room, so they're not going home, but they're going to go to the doctor in the outpatient emergency as it was for a very long time, we all remember, there was an ambulance and they were going with instructions or in the ambulance means lying in the hospital just the emergency patients during that former system and it worked well. The most common diagnosis can be considered by a general practitioner rather than outside hospital emergency is back pain, increased blood pressure, fever of unknown origin, acute sore throat, urticaria, acute sore throat, conjunctivitis, etc. It's a diagnosis that this patient can go to an outpatient emergency and be taken care of. As you know, such diagnosis is very common in tourist hospitals, and you will have in one Baška and remote tourist clinics that solves all this young doctor, who may be the first job and will not be referred to any such patient in the hospital. Our patients must learn that there is a hospital, a tertiary health care facility where the most difficult emergencies are taken care of, where the first, second and third categories should be included, and we must enable such patients to do so. The ambulance has to be given to someone in need of medical attention, and whoever can wait and settle it in an out-of-patient emergency and get a prescription right away can also go to a doctor. That's why I think this exposure of yours actually has a lot of illogicality. Well, I'm sorry if you weren't on our board, maybe some misunderstandings would have been made clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11722	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Ana Comparić Devčić will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11723	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you just said that participation isn't going to be paid by those with extra insurance, it's going to be for those who don't. They're all patients, they're all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, maybe they don't pay extras because it's too expensive for them? And according to the minister's announcement, we'll pick him up. Then who's gonna pay for extra health insurance? I'll tell you again, I congratulate you on the reform law that will increase the burdens of sick people. I congratulate you from your heart on such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11724	Thank you very much. The following will be taken on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists by the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11725	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the aim of this law is supposed to be financial stabilisation and raising insurance and quality of health care. It is declared a key reform of this law, and that is the objective of the law. This is neither a key reform nor a financial stabilisation will be achieved nor a quality of health will be ensured. By law, too, I will later say why, the law also prescribes insured persons to pay compensation in an emergency hospital reception made upon request by a insured person. In fact, from this and other things, we see that the collection of insurance policies, these purchases that I've just said here, or the payment of these reviews, it's actually only the first in a series of ways to pick up a hack and start locating health care funds in the way that it's inappropriate and how our citizens don't actually deserve it and how it shouldn't go. This government, which was immediately called reformist and we see it now is gone and gone, in fact, the government immediately gave up any reforms in health care and has transferred everything to inventing how to take as much money from citizens and healthy and sick as possible. If we are talking about the essence of health reform, the essence of health care reform is in the reform of the hospital system. The hospital system spends over 50% of all health care funds, and there are the largest detachments and there are how to say the highest debts. Well, then you can actually save the most. Let’s just say that 800 million kuna is spent annually on non-health care personnel in the hospital system, and all this is then reflected on waiting lists, service quality, doctor abroad, etc. etc. As a first condition, if we talk about health reform, as a first condition of health reform, it is a reform of the hospital system and it is the unification of ownership of hospitals by the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions by the SDP. You know for a fact that hospitals were once owned by a city, county, etc. In fact, the Resuscitation Act is all of this, in a way, placed under one cap, and the assumption is that it is going to reform a hospital system that is actually the heart of health reform. Instead of insisting on it, it doesn't all go back again, it goes back to chaos, and we're actually going to get into a situation where debt builds up, that we have unquality treatment or less quality treatment, that we have waiting lists, etc. etc. In short, instead of reform, we got a step back and a turn back into a mess but therefore a greater burden for the citizens. This government means it's not reformal, but it was immediately against reform. And it's about overruling now some new government, the new government with the old people will also insist on what it is and if you think it's some kind of happy and I would remind you of a famous comfortism of Stanislav Ižri Leca who says I'm happy and it's just the end and so on for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11726	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU and Stipe Petrina, they will take the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go. A colleague of the Temple is missing, losing his right to speak of this wheel. Next, on behalf of the HNS MPs' club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11727	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, here at the very beginning of the debate on these two points of the agenda, I must say that it is absolutely inappropriate for such important laws as apply literally to every citizen in the Republic who directly enters the pocket of each of our citizens and burdens the pocket of each of our citizens so that according to Mr. Minister, the financial situation in health would be stabilised absolutely inadmissible, scandalous that some people from the professional circles are also also some journalists who deal with this topic on several occasions while the debate was being held, public debate on some ideas that are now being translated into the law. And it is indeed a fact that Mr. President, we end the session yesterday at 3:30 p.m. with the announcement that we will be doing two more points that have not come to the agenda, and one of them was the Water Economy Act, announced after the session's interruption that we have a debate on the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act this morning. What to say about this behavior of the ruling and what to say about this government as a point of "i" proposing these two laws, obviously with the intensities to try to pass these laws on Friday. And I don't know if our citizens are aware of what this government wants to do to them? I'm going to say just one detail of what comes from these laws, that is, the Health Insurance Act. It turns out that this government would also like to teach this ministry the minds of our citizens, or patients who, unfortunately, are poor when they are sick, do not know exactly whether or not they will be able to assess the symptoms they have, whether they die or not. Because that's the difference whether they're going to the E.R. or going to the O.R. So citizens should be able to assess themselves. If they do not assess well, and if in the hospital's emergency assessment that they were not life-threatening and felt so they would have to pay 150 kuna. Well, especially to fellow doctors who sit in the benches of the ruling, on this side, it's a great honor. The Croatian People's Party, of course, is in the position that our health care should experience structural reforms, that we should look at the whole and analyze the overall way in which health care brings into the standard that every citizen living in the EU deserves, and of course we are far from being compared with EU members and, of course, the costs that this country and its citizens can bear at the moment. What you're proposing today, what we're proposing, is certainly not that. In the last 20 years, we've had revolutionary proposals through more governments, which will be in health care, and what should appear to be better in health care. Unfortunately, none of them have succeeded, or any of them have been successfully brought to an end in order to obtain these results. And today, in these arguments that are relatively professional for our citizens or perhaps not sufficiently understandable about when to use an emergency in the hospital, or when to call the institution, or the outpatient emergency. I believe that most of our citizens are actually not quite clear what this is about. By forming an emergency medicine office with the reform run by Minister Milinovic, who was supported by the majority of the emergency reform, which was supported by the majority and the profession, but also by the founder of institutions in charge of health care, has been caught regionally on one of the issues in which both this and the bill's proposal are being filed. He notes that the hospital emergency at the time our patients use it, means they call it emergency, comes into the field and establishes that it wasn't an emergency at all and that, of course, this patient has to go to some very different processing. And the plan was then that was good to form so-called. centres where patients will be processed or where patients can come to resolve such urgency, simply because I said at the beginning, so the patient himself at a certain point cannot assess whether he is life-threatening or not. And of course, if he can't assess it, then we'll punish him with 150 kuna. I don't think that's the right answer, Mr. Minister. That's not the right thing to do. There are abuses, there have always been and there will be. There's no system that's perfect. However, we sick people, patients, our citizens must not be put in this situation to punish them because they do not know if they are life-threatening. Besides, I think this law is, I don't think, but I know, we've never passed laws like this with emergency procedures. This law affects the entire system of homes of health, affects all concessionaries. The moment the law was established under Mr Milinović's reform in the Primorje-Goran County, I know about it because I participated in it, we had a problem, there were too few teams that could have gone out in the field, we didn't have the possibility of seeing patients in the emergency, in the hospital emergency checkpoints because it wasn't even foreseen by the way the emergency hospital services operate. Our patients used to come to those checkpoints and die. Afterwards, we tried to initiate an agreement with family medicine doctors who were concessionaries to participate in emergency work, KOHOM opposed it. I'm asking you if you haven't coordinated this law with KOHO, you won't be able to implement it. And you're not. ... So I'm telling you that you're not and you prove that you are. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The first grudge was, of course, that they don't have it in contracts at all that they don't have in contracts right now. You have to make an annexes with all concessionaries today, that is, when this law is passed with all concessionaries. I'm not sure you'll make it. So you don't have a deal. So you want to spend something that's not feasible. You're gonna make a circus and you're doing it urgently. Do you know what responsibility you're taking? You were talking about the property censorship, or you mentioned you were justifying the decision-making of increasing participation in hospital treatment to 3 thousand kunas, allegedly only for those who do not allegedly, not those who are not provided additionally. You also boast that it's some kind of reform move. I'm afraid that so-called property censorship we all like to mention. He's the one for this reform, so-called. The reform government is in some things and in some things is not worth it because there is a possibility that some things can be arranged in a better way because you mentioned that there are 2 million insurance companies in the Republic of Croatia that are simply excluded from all these obligations, participations and additional payments. And what's really so that between those two million people who are free of everything there are not those who, according to their property, could, according to their property, by their salaries, pensions, be able to participate more, no. So, we didn't touch those two million at all, we guaranteed them, we said everything was fine, but that's why we're going to put all these others on extra charge. You can't say you looked at this whole thing because you didn't. For something like this, it takes a lot more time not to say that when it comes after all the public debates, after the consent of the profession that can and must participate, that when it comes here it must be in two readings. The whole series of problems opens up with each of these changes that not only financially, not only financially, because if only the goal is to try to pick up several hundred million things, kuna, and solve their problems then it's not, it's not a law that helps the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's about health care. It's about health insurance. It's not about pears and apples. So, of course the HNS won't support the bill. We think it's definitely not the time. Let us do what is before us during this day, to form a new government, that this government announces a quality reform of health, hundreds of millions of kunas and billions in that health care unfortunately failed, not 15 or 20 or a month won't save anything or destroy anything, let's try to do, try to do something that's really good, which has a real foundation and move on first of all from patients. Let's not move and start with our health care system being financially compromised. It's always wrong, always wrong. And unfortunately, almost all the ministers flew into that trap, thinking exclusively and in a way that you should think about money and focus has never been on patients. So, all we heard today was an excuse, we need to rescue health from bankruptcy. So you're about us, even though I don't think it's bankrupt, but it was about your message and your appeal to all of us to adopt it. It's a completely wrong approach to health care. We ask you to take care of the standard of health of our citizens and therefore we will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11728	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to those who answered the line. What I'm saying is that you know that I've always stood up for the law to go according to regular procedures, not emergency procedures. Listen to what I'm saying and you'll hear it. However, it is incorrect what you said and I must correct you that such laws had not been followed by emergency procedures before, at the time of the previous session of the Parliament and the former Government, 80% of all documents went through the emergency procedure, unfortunately. I'm personally against emergency procedures and I'd always advocate that as many laws as possible go into normal procedure. But now we would move on to replicas and the first replica is the distinguished representative of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11729	The most interesting thing for me is when you're harassing citizens in this way, and especially when you're a politician who very often challenges us others who are other professions to talk about certain things, you're interpreting this way, in which we actually try to present ourselves to the citizens. Disturbing that unless I'm a patient recognizes whether it's an emergency or not, and therefore not getting timely assistance is really disturbing citizens. You and now have a call available to 112 where the patient will call and talk to the competent person, most often it is a medical technician, a first-time officer who is educated and works in the reporting units and who will respond to that patient where to contact his doctor or to come to a united emergency reception where he will be examined, where he will be told, you are not an emergency patient and you need to be treated in an extra-patient emergency where he will be a doctor of the family medicine who is on call at that clinic who will, after examining your instructions, prescribe a prescription by the way, because now we have a situation for me as a neurologist to have someone who has a back pain that lasts a few months, who will come to a clinical hospital hospital center where all diagnostic tests will be carried out, but I will still have to send him to an extra hospital hospital emergency where he will be able to receive that same day as a prescription so that he can get in the hospital. So, the way you take and harass citizens that this will not be, that they will be life-threatening is not true, because every life-threatening patient will be admitted and examined and we well know who the emergency patient is. A patient who doesn't know if the emergency will get an answer then and then will be offered a door to or 50 meters away, 100 meters away is a non-patient emergency. That's where you come in. Unfortunately, this law has very much the support of the profession. I also had a thematic session, you could as a parliamentary representative be present as well as many clubs on the right and opposition and positions where there was a very relevant group of all segments of the healthcare system from the Croatian Association of Employers in Health, Croatian Medical Chamber, Representatives and Primary Doctors of the Medical Chamber who all supported this way in which we arrange that the emergency care will finally be directed primarily to the emergency patient, and anything not urgent will go to the outpatient emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11730	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Nada Turina Đuric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11731	I certainly respect your profession, and for years I have been in a position to cooperate with doctors, from family medicine doctors to top quality specialists. And what was always most important to me or very important to me was what they think when something was proposed, when something in the system wanted to change. But more importantly, I was expecting patients, expecting citizens in the health care standard. So you will never get full consent of course because there are always different interests at different levels, so it is likely that doctors in the hospital system will be satisfied with this solution because they will sort of be relieved. However, the entire army of doctors who will participate in the emergency not in the first order, but the third order of emergency will require of you and with full justification will require it. They will be faced with a situation where they will come truly and threatened, life-threatening patients where they will not be in a situation of their own, insufficient emergency education that has turned their attention and when Mr Milinovic's reform was ongoing and because most of these ambulances are not high-quality and adequately equipped to possibly respond in such situations. So, there is a whole series of gaps, and it is regrettable that reforms are always being brought to us in the direction of protecting the interests of that part of health represented by the minister, or represented by the chairman of the Health Committee in the Assembly. It's extremely sad that it's been happening in our politics for years, and that's what's happening right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11732	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11733	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues. Here I was listening to my exposé colleague and what I can surely confirm as well as you all that we want our citizens to have as much health care as possible. However, we have now heard the fact that the system is lost in billions each year. On the other hand, if those losses continue like this, and they continue, it has its own deadline. So there's a moment when the system will collapse. The solution to compensate these costs can be in increased GDP, means that we make more money, that we have where to solve this problem. Until it's up to us, the only way we can do it is by way of Mr. Minister's suggestion, we can make an effort at maximum rationalization, optimization of the system. Reforms. They're always in health care and it's always the story of reform. So we had a four-year coalition that ran health care, there were hopes and announcements that the reforms of the resolution would etc. that they'll do something, but they're not. They've made their losses. These losses, we as responsible people, must be dealt with properly by protecting our citizens, our patients, to the fullest extent possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11734	Thank you. The distinguished representative Nada Turina Đuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11735	Thank you. My dear colleague, I understand the ministry and the government's intensities that they want to settle their losses. But he can't show it as a reform first, and the second one has to tell people openly yes, we'll hit you in the pocket. I mean, okay. If citizens accept it, the majority of votes, or citizens. If most votes, unfortunately, it will be all those citizens who have been in favour of it, but I don't think there are many citizens who would be in favour of such a thing, it will be carried out. So, you're going to introduce additional charges I'd say in this case, and that's how it's going to work. You know, I mean, there's a lot to decide. You can confiscate people's assets. All sorts of decisions in history and history have been made in some governments and some authorities. So it says here we're going to confiscate a little bit, so we're going to... There's a lot of things you can do. [[You don't understand.]] But in a democratic society that should take care first of all of its citizens, of the situation in which these citizens are located, of the overall economic situation, I think this proposal is not thinking enough and good enough, but only going one way. And it's not true that our system doesn't work well. You have hospitals that do business not positive but which are, here's an example that's right out of my county. I don't know how, I really don't know that nobody cares and asks why some hospitals in Croatia function without loss and function. They're real questions, not how we're going to take the citizens' money now so they can make it up to everyone who doesn't know how to do it or don't want to make up for the money. And so it's permanent, so it's 25 years in Croatia. This topic hasn't happened since yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11736	There he is, thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representatives of Štefanija Damjanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11737	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. With your presentation, you have opened a number of new questions that confirm that the preparation of this law has not made a detailed analysis and preparation. When the reform took place, the minister said the lack of financial resources in the healthcare system was the only reason why it increased further and a series of these other fees. When exposed and justified, the law is always handled with great concern for citizens, that they have a better service, a bigger one, etc. Finance, we haven't had a chance to hear how much financial money is raised from regular health insurance, how much money is collected from supplementary health insurance, who pays for those categories that have been released from supplementary health insurance, and which is very unusual to me why in the category of freed citizens from paying for supplementary insurance there's no real estate censorship when the property price is introduced into social care, with disabled people etc. I think we should do a more detailed financial analysis and then go into a regular procedure with a proposal for the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11738	Thank you. Will the honourable representative answer? No, nothing. Thank you. I will now give my word to the Honorable Minister of Health Dr. Daria Nakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11739	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I want to point out something that really doesn't need to be dramatic, doesn't need to be unnecessarily harassed and disturbed by citizens about certain things that are relatively well arranged. As to whether or not the patient should know whether or not he is urgent or not, I think it would be best if we were to cancel the instructions and go where we should, when and how to do so, at the opportunity of driving on a tram and you wouldn't have the controllers and wondering if after a year anyone would have a ticket on the tram. In this way, citizens who have a manual are discriminated against, the people who contacted their doctor are discriminated against because they respected order. We're not introducing this because it's the turn, but because there's a mess inside the system itself. In Croatia today, our citizens have four options for emergency services, the first to contact their family medicine doctor. They're educated, they're people who are educated to assess whether you're an emergency or not. After that, if your family medicine doctor does not work, you should check in with an extra hospital emergency. Outside the hospital emergency room, people who are educated to assess how urgent your condition is or isn't urgent. You don't pay each other anything. Third, you always have 194, the number of phones you can call or 112, ask according to the Norwegian model we used in Croatia. So it's not some fantasy of ours, it exists in other countries, to ask how urgent your condition is and what to do in such a situation. Health care professionals work there in other countries as well as in our country. Whether doctors, whether doctors or first-rate sisters. And when you take all these three options, you're left with a fourth in a row, no matter what you're not sure, you go to a united hospital reception, and if you're an emergency patient, you'll be examined and you won't pay for anything. So nothing happens to emergency patients that they have to pay for anything. In fact, the whole system is about those people who are really urgent so they don't get threatened. It is only because of those people who bypass the system, who abuse the system that we introduce that possibility that if he insists, because he will be instructed by a triad sister to contact his family doctor or outside the hospital emergency room to report to them, and only then, in fact, if he insists that he continue to be examined, he will have to pay for the part. This amount we have proposed of 150 kuna I assure you the size of the bills you have, which are issued in medicine and in health care are much greater than what it is. Therefore, we could not actually compare the situation outside the hospital emergency and in Croatia with other Western European countries for the simple reason why they do not have this model. So in Croatia, citizens have a higher standard of urgency than in other countries. Furthermore, it's a lie that you brought here on consultation and conversation. So, from the first day I came to the ministry, I've been having talks with all our societies, talking to KHOM, with a representative of KHOM on several occasions. We've arranged all the models, and we've examined all the possibilities. Yes, there will always be people who will be for and against. However, what is on you and me is that we bear responsibility, responsibility for the system that I need to lead. So we here should look after and take care of it and the responsibilities and spoken words and deeds that we have. Really may not be the best times when we have to take care of the health system right now, but we don't have when, there's no better. If a reform of the health system had been adopted in four previous years, if it hadn't been for this kind of problem, I wouldn't have had to do it today. So, we always have the fact that we're in constant debt within health care and that the next step we need to take to stabilize our system is called new borrowing. If any of us here think it's a solution to how we're going to further edit our health care system, he's really wondering. And then one key question, who's paying for it? They pay citizens, citizens. There's always one flossula that says state and it's amazing when you're having a debate about it, it's about what the state is. Someone implies that the state is something that is Vienna, Budapest or Belgrade. And I guess this one's the Parliament, this one here's the state. There is no larger institution than this institution. If you say there's nothing to pay, you don't have to pay the citizens no problem, they won't pay anything. Is that our responsibility? The entire health care system to question fellow MPs will answer that indeed the new 15% of employees' salaries. There are 1 million and a half, 2 million people don't pay anything or extra, and they don't pay any taxes or anything. They pay employees who collect 18.2 billion kuna, 3% are taken on pensions that amounted to more than 5700 kunas each year, amounting to 80 million kuna. These same citizens carry the entire health system by 4 million and 300,000 inhabitants and these same citizens because there is no one else, they are the state, we are all a country together, they are carrying and again this part of the increase to ensure everyone, to ensure that they can be treated in a good way because this is the greatest achievement of Western civilizations to ensure the health and education system of all our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11740	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representatives of Nada Turine-Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11741	I'm giving up the replica. I mean, there's really nothing to say about this, about Mr. Secretary's arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11742	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11743	Mr. Minister, the financial situation in the health system is the resulting state of unsettled relations, i.e. health problems. And you can't solve the problem of lack of doctors, poor management, long waiting lists by financial punishment of patients. And you do not expect, Mr. Minister, that persons, Croatian citizens of these 700 thousand who have a income censorship of less than 1615 or per member of the family, whether they are retired or unemployed and those living as single have less than 1936 kuna income. Well, you don't expect them to wear a health care system and the constitutional category is that they have the right to health care. And Mr. Minister, I will say now, and perhaps ten times today, these laws are below every standard for the Croatian Parliament because they are not justified. You should give us all these numbers you're talking about here on the monitor and tell us this is the condition in Croatian health care. What do you think we as agents don't understand the sum of two and two? Such a poorly prepared law of broad procedure that even has the ambition to wear the epithet of reform law 19 times in 25 years, such ill-prepared never on these benches was an emergency procedure. Come on, people, come to your senses.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11744	The next replica is respected representatives of Štefanija Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11745	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, what you said would you like to know and hear how expensive you are from supplemental health insurance, what is that amount and what is the amount of regular health insurance? And what I want to say to you specifically for example, when property censors are and when citizens of the weaker property can be released for that minimum amount or must be paid for and those who are unemployed must pay for additional health insurance. Then it doesn't make sense to me that in the category of citizens who don't have to pay and who receive 5, 7, 10 thousand kuna, everyone pays their additional health insurance that they're released. That doesn't make any sense to me. It doesn't make sense to me that someone who has large incomes is free from paying extra health insurance, and everyone else who is given status to be released because they're extremely small censors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11746	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the following will be taken by the esteemed representative of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11747	Dear President, honourable MPs and respected ministers here once again to say on behalf of the club of the Independent Lists we will support these proposals because we believe that these are not changes to the laws that lead to the financial stabilisation of the entire system as such, but are only one part that should lead to that goal. And that means that we've had a situation in terms of a national development plan for hospitals that didn't revive, as you know master plan ordered and done by some Frenchmen who were ours but were called, didn't do a story about hospitals and didn't do anything to reduce the number of hospitals and we know that we still can't afford 5 hospitals in 30, 40 kilometers in some area. There was no functional integration of health institutions based on the real need for our country to have an even and accessible healthcare service, absolutely nothing the past government has done to prevent further drains and doctors and other healthcare professionals. And this deficit is growing every day and the question is whether we will be able to prevent it in any way other than by introducing medical personnel from other countries and whether it is the right solution for our people. Insufficient development of health tourism, insufficient level of uniqueness and networking of the hospital information system, etc., we found all this when we arrived. And then we suggested some reform measures. The first is an emergency reform. It's an emergency reform. So these are all just steps towards financial stabilisation of the health system. And then we planned an emergency reform, then a health insurance reform, a reform of the hospital's system that was planned for the fall, a rationalization of drug consumption. You've had over 300 million drugs since the beginning of the year, especially expensive drugs. We had to suggest that this still be kind of rationalized because we had committees inside large hospitals that decided on particularly expensive medicines without any responsibility. All patients have the right of course, but all patients also have the right to get help and we must, at least of the basic medicines, and we have to sort of raise it to a level that above a certain amount of particularly expensive medicines it still has to decide some more instance. And it's about drugs that are for one patient 2 to 3 million a year, that's what this is about. Then there was a need to reorganise non-health activities in hospitals, we planned this as a reform measure, continue reform of primary and organisation of palitative care that had just begun during the last government. In the emergency reform, it took three steps, reorganising the combined hospital receptions that had been made, reorganising the outpatient emergency with an increase in emergency medical networks with T1 teams in areas far from hospital facilities. 19 new teams and places of the type Orebić, Croatia Kostanica etc. have been introduced. They won for the first time team1 which made the whole country even better networked to have available T1 teams. Let me remind you team T1 are, there's a doctor in the car and team T2 is the only one in which he's an educated medical technician, that is, the two with a doctor. I have to remind you in Western countries already today you've practically got paramedics and in fact all of those in some countries are those services that actually just stabilize, carry out basic resuscitation and water to the hospital but there are no doctors anywhere because the doctor is too expensive for them. What did we want? And finally including primary health care. And we got to that point. It's not clear to me that you can defend the position of concessionaires who didn't want to be on duty in the O.R. and they're 1500 and no one has thought about it and they're going to attack me again, I'm ready to do that, about doctors in health homes who have less pay than they are, I'm not going to mention again what their wages are, some are extremely high, and some are wages as average as the average doctor in the home of health. If doctors in the home of health must be on duty in an outpatient emergency and that the concessionaries of these 1,500 laws are excluded in 2014 and these 800 in health care homes for relatively small salaries must be on duty in the outpatient emergency, these are the amendments to this law. The hospital emergency is also to be organised and should be attended by all doctors who are part of our health care system. So the result of this emergency reform, which is only one step in all reforms within, was to increase the availability and quality of emergency medical assistance in all phases of the health system reform, while reducing the burden of hospital reception to reduce the threat of rights and timeliness of intervention in emergency patients. I'm sorry what we're trying to do here, of course it's justified that every attack and struggle you have to say is wrong with what this government has proposed, but this is a good law, and we want to make this an urgent help to make available to an emergency patient. With these laws, every patient must be satisfied. Because the one who's life-threatening and potentially life-threatening and that's the third category will get more help than you would be now when you can open the door and in KBC Rebro you can contact whoever gets through, even if you do, from two days ago his throat hurts a little. He'll get there, he'll get his lab results out, and he'll be looked at by a specialist on the island from one of the highest levels of the hospital's hospital hospital facility in the Republic of Croatia. And I'll just, I'll just tell you what they say, what they said in one, I don't have it now, I didn't make it there. We had an exact call by, in Great Britain on 29 December 2014 they published in theirs, on the cover of the largest emergency medical journals recasted to emergency patients and the National Health Service of Great Britain has published large ads inviting citizens to stay away from emergency medical departments unless it is really an emergency. So that's the fact that all Western countries are facing, everyone wants to come to hospitals and be examined by the highest specialist who has the highest level of training to address the most complicated health conditions. That's what he wants, but that's how he threatens someone who really needs a specialist like that. And then they wrote. So I have here, I can also deliver all these headlines say, the emergency medical departments are designed in a way to provide emergency medical patients and ask all citizens to behave responsibly. So in Great Britain, the temperature, cough, lung patients and bronchitis and asthma, kidney patients, diabetics who got worse and couldn't handle the condition themselves, get help looking for the general medicine that would take care of them best. Citizens can get all the information about this at 111. There. So that's the problem he's facing. We're dealing with it. And what did we want? We wanted to define and we didn't list exactly why patients came straight to hospitals, and then we saw actually their reasons, not their condition. One who is life-threatening, one who is severely ill will be examined immediately but they have come because the working hours of patients and doctors general practice are in collapsing and does not fit his doctor’s working time and he actually chooses to come straight to a hospital because he is available to a family doctor only in the shift in which his doctor works. Now, the way we plan to reorganize further in family medicine, he will also contact a doctor if it is an emergency during working hours in case he has to take it. Sporadically available infirmarys where we have a big problem weekends and holidays. A long wait for a checkup with a family doctor and therefore he decides to come to the hospital. And that's why it endangers those who really need help. Long waiting lists for specialist services. Tell me which one of you doesn't have a famous person who came from around you, went to the hospital and said there's the easiest way to make an ultrasound of your stomach or maybe even a ct and drive off to the hospital and it's done. But that's why these waiting lists and everything that was actually going on went on because he ran into a place maybe someone who regularly handed over their manual and waited for their month of review. Then, you need those non-emergency tourists it was also unclear where to report and really with the sting of the hedgehog they came to us at the clinical hospital and with any little things where every intern would know two stitches put in some infirmary but he comes and then he's still angry because he's waiting for the surgeon after he's done the surgery to drop and look at him and put those two stitches and then he's angry. Now let's just say, you can go out to the hospital emergency room, but if you wait for a top plastician or some traumatist to put those two stitches in, you'll wait, you'll be done and you'll pay for that 150 kuna favor. I'm sorry that we're actually scaring patients all the time instead of trying in some way and you're affirming what we as doctors are saying. I said we had a thematic session. I wanted to call and invite all those who may have objections to see if the reform was also fluid and there could be shortcomings in it that we don't see and things that need to be improved, to see if there were any other things in it that needed to be changed, and we realized in fact that all the doctors could hardly wait for this. Why? It's not doctors who don't like their jobs. There are few haters who do their hours in the morning when they get up. The most unsatisfactory doctors who come and can't commit themselves to the right patients because of those who come only to pass, who come because of things and symptoms that could in any way have been solved within their family medicine doctor and you don't have time for a real patient whom you can really not save your life with your treatment, but we are going to the second category of those who will prevent further deterioration of their health. And that's why there's a lack of money you're talking about dealing with this reform. In fact, this is just the beginning of what we wanted to change in the health system, which is why, in fact, on a few occasions I tried and believe except yesterday when the opposition did not come, within the Health Committee is relatively considering that we are talking about the same subject, very often we had a high agreement if something needs to be changed because I think that changing the health system must also be in agreement with the pensioners but also in agreement with all those who are part of that health system and these are doctors and patients. I'd tell you that I'm very clear, and I'm very sorry, I heard the story of those lowest pensioners with the lowest incomes. These days they came to me, and right away, we discussed it on the board yesterday, we got a very positive answer that at least that category we try to protect those who because of those 200 kuna Christmases came into a situation that they crossed those kunas, two, three, and then they have to pay additional health insurance now. You need to know that practically most pensioners and pay additional health insurance because they have the option because they are, in fact, the biggest consumers, are suffering from many diseases at the same time, using very expensive medicines, and they need it additionally, and we will try to find a solution that those who have passed the censorship with that Christmas note to sort of eliminate that part, so that it is not that income so that all those who have these lowest, lowest incomes can have the right to additional health until we raise that censorship because that's actually the point. I don't agree that there's too much to consider, too many are released. We know which categories have been released and we will fight for them with our heart because we cannot think in any way that children, students and those most endangered must not have free supplementary health insurance. I'd look back a little further and say that this law is somehow the first time that we've brought patients with acute psychiatric disease together. It was illogical why this only applies to chronic psychiatric patients, people with mental disorders are almost invisible to the public until the moment when a state of media attention arises or we read about them as victims of abuse. We can therefore not only talk about chronic or acute patients but with these diagnosiss, with these changes we provide free health insurance and treatment for all of them. And we as a club will support this proposal, because we think that what's happened so far, and that's not finding patients in the system, they can now answer the phone, call their doctor, call 112 and ask if their condition is really threatened or not. We think the result will be that there will be no waiting for life-threatening patients, but we will provide them with timely medical attention. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11748	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Silvan Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11749	Dear colleagues, I was in your position in 2008, so I was in a coalition with the same party you're with now. At the time, the minister was a respected colleague, Darko Milinovic, and I know how he presented the health reform. I know it lasted six months, that it was a comprehensive reform, that it was presented by centres, but not just four centres in Croatia, but a dozen cities in sports halls. That he was bleeding with unions, so employers, with social partners, with retirement associations, because the first proposal was to pay all pensions more than 2 and a half thousand kuna. That the negotiations were difficult, but that somehow we were all citizens and everyone understood the picture of the problem in the health system and that somehow we agreed. I must also underline that in 2008 the year I was talking about was the only year when the Croatian government respected all its obligations to the health system. If we had such a clean situation today, we'd be much, much smarter, but we don't. It's another thing. Mrs. Linic, you can't change into a censorship system, it has to change the Ministry of Finance along with the Ministry of Health. They've been changing too, and here the censorship has been the same since 2004. And one question, the Watcher sent me the faithful one if you could ask a question in the debate where, for example, patients who fly the Adriatic and live inside. Will they too, since they are not in their domicile place, have to pay 150 kuna? Whom they should contact in case of an emergency, some kind of accident and, for example, temperatures because all places on the Adriatic do not have tourist hospitals. So these are questions for a public debate that in this case is not and will not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11750	Thank you. The distinguished representative Strenja-Linić will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11751	In the hospital emergency room, the doctors of the family emergency room will be on duty. According to these changes and concessionaries and doctors from the health homes, therefore three to four times a year will only follow them to watch some of them and there will be addressed by all those who need primary health care, i.e. they can't achieve it in their place of residence but have come to vacation unless there is a tourist hospital in that place. But that's why a tourist won't go straight to a clinical hospital center to get the right to be examined because two days in a row he measured the pressure of 175 or something else happened. If there's an ambulance, he'll also report where he'll be taken care of. I would also point out that, primarily, the concessionaires resented how equipped the extra-bolic ambulances were, not the ones who had been on duty there for a long time. They will be further equipped not on their request, but because they were planned to be equipped so that the patient could be completely taken out and did a basic blood test, and only if the condition requires a hospital examination to be instructed there. And as for this health insurance, I'd love to, and I'll even talk to you to make it even more clear, because I've just said our initiative is because I've been given such enquiries where my husband has 1700, my wife has 1200 and together when they've got one Christmas card they've gone for a couple of kunas and they have to pay for participation which is just not fair, especially since we know that in the private sector how they explained it doesn't get into the property censorship when such parts are paid. I hope we can find a solution for that category at least. It's about how I got information yesterday about some 5,000 of our citizens, but these are really the most endangered, so you're going to help me actually find a solution with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, and whoever else we need, that we can do that part together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11752	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11753	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, Mrs. Linic, I'm surprised that as a doctor, this is how you banalize this whole problem. You're saying the doctors of the family medicine will be on duty in the hospital emergency room. Well it's nice and nice to speak from the position of the city of Rijeka where you have 10 teams of T1 emergency aid. You ministers can turn your head and laugh. You are here to praise the introduction of various teams into various cities, I do not know which cities you have listed, and you could also say freely that Mr. Minister has abolished the orderly emergency in Tisnome, Korčula, Murter, parts of the Primorje-Gorski County, etc. So you didn't mention that. I'd just like to ask you one question and if I can ask for an answer to it. So, specifically, on Murter, you have two concessionary doctors or family medicine doctors who say that after their hours of work, they'll be on duty for 8 or 10 hours in emergency medical care. So I'm asking you now, so he's gonna do his eight o'clock so he's gonna be on duty at the E.R. today with a T2 team on Murter for eight hours, all night and tomorrow he's gonna be back on his afternoon shift. Do you, Mrs. Linic, as a doctor, advocate that our doctors of family medicine are closing their clinics on the islands? If you're a doctor, not as a politician, then it's a great honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11754	The distinguished representative Strenja-Linić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11755	My colleague, I'm very sorry that you're so banalizing. I don't know the current situation on Murter, I'm going to ask the minister to explain exactly this particular situation, what I know is for 19, so this is what my colleague Milinovic did that was the beginning of a real emergency reform. Then we got 294 team T1 and started doing a big story, invested 153 million kunas in an ambulance. Now, it's been added, every year it's been going to some kind of network, but this year it's the first time a full 19 teams are being added, and it's increasing in the field as a medical emergency. What's going to happen now is that in a place where an ambulance gets out on the ground, there won't be a door no more shut, but it'll be there as it was long before your government shuts it down will be a doctor who'll be able to talk to those who come when the ambulances are on the ground. That's what this is about. And that's an improvement. Just like I got the information you don't have the same structure and population in summer in all places. Some place is more tourist-developed, some don't. Of course, somewhere where there are more inhabitants in winter you will have a car T1, meaning a car with a doctor complete, and if there is another place in summer tourist numbers more because there are more tourists there then that car T1 will move there because there has come such an inflow of tourists that they need, and the number of residents and persons who would potentially need emergency assistance or is closer to a roadway, of course there will be moved team T1 that will be returning during the winter. That's what it was all about. Family medicine doctors have their quotas and how many hours they need to be on duty. If this increase occurs, I believe that we will be able to do so with new young doctors or doctors who will work over the summer at the places where the car is and where the T1 teams are stationed in these hospitals will appear there. I'd like to ask about Murter if the minister would explain that story. You're talking particularly about a story, we're talking about trying to get an ambulance closer to an emergency patient so he can get it. We're not talking about individual doctors of family medicine who, during the summer and otherwise, have more work to do but are so everywhere, so it's been very common during all these years but it wasn't as much trouble as you are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11756	Thank you very much. Now the word will be taken by the esteemed Milivo Spika on behalf of the Club of Representatives Bandic Milan 365 Party of Labour and Solidarity, BUZ and all others not to mention. Here you go, fellow Spika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11757	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't know how you do, but I'm in advance, and I'm sorry if someone's gonna get it wrong, but somehow all the time I feel like I'm discussing these two points and waiting for the next point as a participant in that ad in front of the finals of the European Championship or when at the most interesting moment, you're getting into commercials, and you're watching a series. So I kind of get this feeling all the time, and then, accordingly, I'm going to try and cut these 15 minutes to a minimum to say what I want without repeating all these colleagues who have already said everything more or less about it. So there's no reason not to agree with the minister that the problem is in health care, and we've been listening to him for 26 years and he's always the same. So, there's always a problem with finance, there's always a crisis, there's always a need for reforms, there's always a lot of things. But why is that happening? Some say that health care pays and a lot of those invoices that are fictitious, of which there was nothing. So some say that a good portion of that equipment was purchased, which was purchased in some warehouses, which serves nothing. The next, however, says that a good deal of these funds went to the purchase of overpriced equipment. So, the equipment that's supposed to be paid at twice the price than it normally is. So the problem obviously exists and the problem needs to be solved. But whether something is collapsing or not, it's a different story now. What I want to say here, and we said the first time they went out there, some suggestions, starting with the collection of an additional health insurance policy, that we wouldn't accept it as well as some other things, and now we can comment on this emergency service, so emergency medical assistance that was presented in a way and therefore this collection policy in a way that has gained an extremely negative perception in public. And perception is in this business that we do extremely important. So, not getting into how good a proposal is in that qualitative sense or not, or we should work it out, from the fact that the public didn't take these proposals well, and it's not because it was miscommunicated, and it's not the same because the promoter didn't contact those that we agreed on before these parliamentary elections that we wanted to. So the National Council for Retireds and Older Persons did not participate in this process of making proposals for these laws, and it was defined with coalition partners that something like this would not come to the assembly benches before this was discussed on this body. And why is that? Not for us, and when I speak then at this point I think of the political options that represent these social components we should call so including the Buz and the Croatian party of pensioners, of course, also the Retired Union, the Retired Matica and a number of others who are directly interested in these things. And the deal was that we would participate in this whole story and I repeat not in a way that we would be above the ministry and above the minister, the government, above this House, but simply in a broadly motivated debate because all these associations, so all these alliances include more than a million people. If it's someone's insignificant number, then okay, we can discuss it. But this was both the way and the reason for the gentlemen dear to share and the responsibility for what will come here. And then the logical thing is that it would be much easier for the minister here today to defend the amendment and addition of these legal regulations that we were involved in all those I'm talking about and not have to say what I'm going to say here now, and that's because of the promises to these people and those who support this Block Retired Together won't give their vote, no matter how the parliamentary majority vote for these proposals. And I said why not, because we were ignored in this process of making and making proposals. So, regardless of what's put into the emergency procedure, I think it's generally the wrong way, especially when talking about something that we define as reform, reform can't be at least that my opinion can't work in a way that enters an emergency procedure, but it needs to be covered by a little more time and all those who have something to say about it and then find together, find the best solution. Until we do so in the context of these proposals concerning the social group represented by the Retirement Block together, no such proposal will get a green light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11758	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the HDZ club, the word will be taken by distinguished representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11759	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Minister, I agree with the Minister when he said that the financial stability of the system is in fact a prerequisite for those who make the health system exist and these are health insurance companies or patients with stable health care and, as colleagues here have mentioned, equal availability of healthcare regardless of what part of the Republic of Croatia they live in. It also agrees with those who say and we can't say that these are reform laws. I have often spoken and today I repeat that the health system is like one dough and it is subject to beauty or modeling almost from week to week. However, the minister announced some real reform procedures in the autumn, and I agree with Mr Hrelja, who said that in some way we are the last systematic reform that really started somewhere before Christmas 2008, I presented that reform to 1,000 people in Zagreb. It's true like you said we went to the halls, that we talked to, I personally introduced it to more than 10,000 people before. There were 1,000 or 2,000 people in the halls as if it were a football game, but it was one systematic reform that went really from primary health care, emergency medical attention, a hospital system, and I'm not counting any further. And there's been a lot of controversy with coalition partners. It is also true that what Mr Hrelja says is that only then did the state pay in 2009, 2010 and 2011 indeed everything that belongs to the Croatian health system under legal obligations. If we were to talk about problems with the health system today, then we could go back, but we don't have to go back too far in the past. It's always kind of a burden for a real debate. But 2 years ago, and 3 years ago, when the rate of detachment was reduced from 15% to 13%, it resulted in the creation of new debts of 3.5 billion kuna, then that recovery of the health care system was recoupling in some way what we lost by reducing the contribution. And it actually turned out to be one of the most vulnerabilities of the former government where the health system ran out of 2.5 billion kuna. And then for two years, the health system at the annual level created a debt of 2.5 billion kuna. Today, as we have heard from the Minister of Health and the hospital system is still unfortunately in trouble and something has to be done about it. I therefore believe that these measures are fire measures and should be presented and accepted and proposed. Today, the health system as we heard at the monthly level, i.e. the hospital health system at monthly level, generates still a debt of 50k, 50m kuna. And we have to do something about that because we're going to get into a hospital blockade, a blockage by a major drugstore, and then where are we? Then we're on that wheel where we're practically out. I'll mention another piece of information, during the former government, when you cut down the supplementary insurance policy to all those who have paid more than 10 thousand kuna from 130 to 70 kuna, and that social category that we actually came together to when we were, socially sensitive, there was the highest number of pensioners they had a health insurance policy of 60 kuna. And now that government decision also four years ago has led to certain instability, so it has again burdened those who are the most socially sensitive and I'm going to say this to us who have paid more than ten thousand kuna health insurance policy from 130 to 70 kuna. However, to demystify the data as Mrs Turina said, unfortunately it is not there, that the minister is entering the citizens' pocket again. That's just not true. I'll say that this is the best minister's answer to all those who said that some of his moves wanted in some way to put private insurance companies in a position of privilege. And to be perfectly clear, and I'm going to say it in a concrete way what that means is an increase in participation from 2 to 3 thousand kuna. Perhaps Mr. Spica will change his mind afterwards, and perhaps support this law regardless of what I agree that you should have been, not perhaps, but should have been familiar with the adoption of this law. So if you have an account to treat one patient 15 thousand kuna, the participation for that patient should be 20% and that's 3 thousand kuna. Who pays you 3,000 kunas? And 3 thousand kuna pays either the state or the private insurance company. The past government has reduced that limit from 3 to 2 thousand kuna. What did she do? She told a private security guard we want to please you, you won't have to pay 3,000 kuna from your insurance but you'll have to pay 2 thousand kuna. So it absolutely does not touch in the citizens' pocket but also in the private pocket by ensuring companies and, of course, the state insurance company. So that's the information that's true and that's why we brought this back to three thousand kunas so that hospitals can receive new around 70, 80 million kunas based on supplementary health insurance. So let's not fool the citizens and not scare them. Because always when we were moving into this major reform of the healthcare system 6, 7 months across Croatia, those who have no money will die, the Americanization of health care, we always listen to it today, but it simply, it proved Silvano and then it was wrong that those who feared it in this way were wrong. Today, too, the same will prove to be true for those who want to intimidate the Croatian public in this way. As for some things that are good and to be commended. I also agree with those, some of them are punks, some places and lost emergency medical teams but we must acknowledge and give recognition to the Minister and Croatian Health Insurance Service that, despite these difficult conditions in financing the health care system, they have managed to provide additional 19 emergency medical care teams and thus, in fact, mainly in those areas, as agent Bulj said, provide equal health care and those living in those areas that are called the most common areas of special state care. Remember when we introduced and introduced concessionaries, remember what resistance it was. So all the new things you want to introduce that comes up with a terrible resistance like these few changes to this law come out and politics, actually goes out to politics and the fear of citizens. Remember how they were and how much resistance there was to the introduction of concessionaires in private health care. You see how different the data is today, today everyone is longing and those in the homes of health, today everyone is longing and everyone wants to enter the concession because it proved to be good. What's not good, did the former government, so we organized, I'm sorry that Mrs. Turina isn't here because she talked about it, we organized it, it was legally ensured to establish centres of family medicine that were actually tasked with attending health homes to relieve emergency hospital receptions. And you, in that way, abolished in 2013, I don't know, or in 2014, another provision where concessionaries were required to be on duty at the outpatient emergency reception. What did we get in that way? We've received an emergency medical, hospital emergency medical emergency. And as the minister said today at the emergency hospital, it seems to me that you said 70% are coming to those who are not actually emergencies. But let's not burden ourselves, in fact let's not accuse either, I agree with all those who spoke their opinion here today in such a way, let's not accuse patients of that either. Indeed, when a patient is in pain, then at that moment he does not know what to or most often they do not manage to go to these emergency receptions, here is Mrs Turin, emergency receptions, hospital emergency receptions, but we cannot scare them, the population, and they too will have to decide whether they are emergency patients or not. No, they will come there, they will be reviewed and will be reported on the basis of findings, based on expert opinions that they are not and do not belong to a group of emergency medical admissions and will have the opportunity to continue these searches but will have to pay 150 kuna for it. So you don't have to scare the citizens that they will have to determine whether or not they are emergencies or not, no, for that to be determined by the doctor who is in the emergency hospital reception but he will allow him to explain his further moves or attitudes, that is either to go to a family doctor that day or tomorrow and if it's an emergency reception, if it's an emergency case to continue processing in an emergency medical, emergency hospital tract. So I agree, once again and again, these aren't reform moves, this is the move that I'm saying is a health system, as a dough, modeling it almost from week to week, but this is a necessary procedure today to continue really another studio and real health system reform in the autumn. And I am convinced that the current minister will have a broad public debate with the social partners and with everyone, of course and not only the social and political partners, and that we will come to a unanimous decision, or unanimous majority of the position that reforming the health system is something that is necessary, i.e. the continuation of reform of the system, the hospital system, the health system is something that is necessary because without it simply this system becomes unsustainable. Here in this sense, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this proposal with good faith that in the autumn we will continue to reform the health system, modeling the health system and that it will only bring good to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11760	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Silvana Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11761	Dear colleague, you mentioned these were fire measures. I know something about fire and I don't understand how the fire can be put out by gas, and this is exactly the fire extinguishing with gasoline, downhilling. Secondly, you said that the financial stability of the health system is very important but financial stability makes the health system seem to make the state by paying or by not paying its own commitments and by law established. We have a case here that is the main generator of financial collapse in the health care of the state and the desire is for the system to be resolved by the new penalization of patients, citizens, we cannot accept it at all. And I'm asking you one more thing. I know that in 2013, you weren't the focus of the events, that I'm asking you not to talk about the fact that the past government went willingly to level the price of a health insurance policy. This had to be done on the basis of EU accession and the introduction of the liberalisation of health insurance where they postulate that for the same service must be the same price except for high-risk groups where there has to be a higher price, where there can be a higher price. Conscious of these facts and retirement associations and political forces, the pensioners took on their backs the responsibility to have the single price of a 70 kuna supplemental health insurance policy in a public non-profit insurance company. The only problem with the last government is that it did not fully stand alone as a legal entity so that it could fight in a competition with unfair competition from private insurance companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11762	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Darko Milinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11763	Thank you very much. I agree with you that this was the process of unifying the criteria in line with the EU's views or attitudes. But you agree or you have to, you don't have to, but I think you'll agree with me that it could be regulated differently. We could've said this, let's make the single price of supplementary insurance 100 kuna and this difference between 70-100 kn paid by pensioners to pay the state budget as you yourself said in 2009, 2010. But I say again, these measures that are proposed today don't penetrate the citizens' pocket, they only enter the interest areas of potentially private insurance companies, and they're unfavourable for them but of course also in the sphere of supplementary health insurance, state health insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11764	Thank you very much. The next replica is the last of the distinguished representatives of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11765	I would just supplement my colleague Milinovic by talking about what would happen to emergency patients who were actually urgent and didn't know where to turn. I just want to tell you the information that they also gave us at our thematic session, which is that with the announcement that those who are not urgent and who have come to get a little check-in at the hospital, the mere announcement of this measure is an average of 20-30% of the number of patients who appear in the hospital is reduced. So actually one better communication. This is a communication that we can say in some ways and firepower to say, those who aren't urgent will really need to pay if they insist on being looked at by a sup specialist, a neurosurgeon at KBC Rebro, regardless of what he's had a headache that lasts two years and has already done several examinations. But he came in at 11 p.m. and he's still going to check it out. Okay, that's what they'll pay for, but already with the announcement that this patient will need to pay, data through all the emergency services in Croatia, 20-30% have decreased the number of patients who are responding to emergency receptions. It's not a negligible number. This is, therefore, better communication certainly but explaining to patients who are their way of achieving their medical care, whether emergency or less urgent, or where they should only be told by their problems by a family doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11766	There won't be an answer. Thank you very much. The next one, on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, will be taken by the HDS's esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11767	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The HSS club, the HDS will support the adoption of these two laws. I agree with the majority that we should all focus our interests on being a patient, availability of healthcare but of course the functioning of the overall health system. And always debate, debate and debate and never enough different opinions to go towards a solution for this to be a focus of the patient's interest and availability of health care. Of course, there is a need for preconditions, which are stable revenues, stable budgets and sufficient sources of revenue for the whole system. We know that we are passing these laws in the context of an environment when the state is over-indebted, when over the past four years new debts are about 100 billion, when health debt has grown and the Law on Resuscitation of Health Institutions has not adopted those solutions that have been announced and when we went to changes to that law and return to hospital management, units of regional self-government. And just on one basis, how difficult the situation is that the hospital Nova Gradiška and Slavonski Brod have entered a system of recovery with some liabilities of about 30 million kuna and that here they have now come out, that the debts of over 100 million kunas are talking about how the system does not work and how it is necessary to take some activities. There were always objections that there were no proposals, no changes and no additions, now that we propose two laws, now they say hasty, too soon. I think it's better to do something now than wait for further accumulation of obligations. In HSS, we held a debate through our party bodies and discussed this at the Association of Women Croatian Hearts within the Croatian Peasant Party, where they were representatives and small, ordinary people, patients, doctors from family medicine, health institutions and insurance houses. And about all of us agree that something must be done and an extensive debate on how to make the health system in Croatia effective. Other European countries where stable revenues have and good budgets have problems in the functioning of the health system and in such circumstances we need to be realistic and look for possible solutions. At this point, we welcome the reform of emergency medicine, because we are aware, outpatiently, that this is good. With the new 19 teams, we increase the availability of health care. However, the question remains whether someone will be in the outpatient medical offices once the team has gone to the field or if the patient comes across the closed door. We have a lot of objections on the ground and specifically with me in Novi Gradiška because it's just a habit of patients that they come to non-patient emergency medicine and that they're used to getting a favor there. If the team's on the ground, they come across a closed door. And of course they go first to the mayor, the mayor, the hospital director, and basically at least we're here to blame because the answers we received during the previous period put that extra nurse or doctor and pay because it's above standard. This is not equal to available healthcare in all areas of the Republic of Croatia and we have a constitutional right to do so and this must be resolved. And if this law is going to solve that problem, then I'm sure you should support it. The problem also needs to be pointed out that family medicine doctors who the concessionaries did not want to keep on the watch that we do not have a family doctor on the weekends. I have here an excerpt from one scientific paper, from one survey that says that out of the 59 doctors surveyed in the area of Brod-Posavina County, only 14 replied that they wanted to attend, and they were offered an annex contract with 55 kuna per patient. If we know that the average is between 50 and 80 patients in one working time it means somewhere between two and a half and four thousand kunas of income. And under these circumstances, family medicine doctors refused to call. And that's why this law, where they're bound to be on duty, is going to be three to five times a year. I don't think it should be a problem, it must be made, of course, an annex contract with them and thus ensure that doctors are equal in providing health care, and we know that family doctors should always be with their patient and that they should and hope that the patient is always in the first place. It is also mentioned that no family medical centres have been established, and we advocate that the introduction of a family medicine centre, through the new primary healthcare network, must be provided teams of family dental, paediatric, gynological health care in rural parts of the Republic of Croatia and in the islands, and that a proposal to limit the number of patients in primary health care by a family doctor should also be considered, since some have two, three thousand patients and thus cannot provide quality protection to their patient, and then they will not be on duty. It is also proposed that the organisation of the Paliatical Care at the level of primary health care. The 2015 Law provides for coordination centres for palitative care which in itself is not enough. It is necessary to provide mobile teams with palitative care at the level of primary health care that will be key to the care of the palitarian patients in the house. Health homes have shown themselves and should remain organisational coordinators in the primary health care system for all of the above reasons. Of course it's always the pressure and the objection from all of us that the burden of financing the health system must not be spilled on the patient and we are against it. But we need to find solutions to ensure the functioning of the health system, how to ensure that the patient is in the first place and that we all have equal access to health care, and we currently do not have it in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11768	Thank you very much. And now we're moving on to an individual debate, and it's the only one who's ever been contacted by a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11769	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I think there's a public interest moving here with something important to say about increasing participation from two to three thousand kunas and in some way unrelated to the Law for the price of a supplemental health insurance policy. However, dear colleagues and colleagues I assure you that this is a deep connection, that it is very, very connected. Namely, if you don't see what's going on around you I'll try to tell you. By announcing the purchase of an additional health insurance policy from 70 kuna to 89 kuna, private insurance companies went on an aggressive campaign offering 67 kuna supplementary health insurance policies. So, the story of increasing participation from 2000 to 3000 is an alibi story for what was offered first, as an increase in the supplementary health insurance policy. In doing so, private insurance companies are in the offensive, public insurance company, taking away healthy and young patients, and creating a prerequisite that they will remain a public insurance provider only the old powerless and poor. At the same time, the proposal to increase the price of the additional health insurance policy also increases the country's obligations. Not only do citizens want an additional 400 million kuna per million and 600,000 insurance companies in the public insurance company, but 250 million also increase the government's commitment. And I, my dear colleagues and colleagues, assure you, and I can prove to you in number that additional health insurance as a public insurance company can also bear the price of 3,000 kunas if the state regularly fulfils its obligations, so the 850 million kuna that has remained in debt over the last six years. If she had met this problem, she shouldn't have been. Of course this minister is not responsible, for this all governments so far and this minister and bureaucracy Mrs Jadranka Kosor and our ministers of our coalition government and current minister are responsible. There isn't anything going on with this minister or what, it's the continuity of growing problems. And that's why this wants to get on the back of the citizens right now. That's the price on the back of the citizens. The minister says in more statements that we will use what we collect to resuscitate health care. The minister publicly proposes a violation of the law. Because the law says exactly that you can use that extra health insurance money exactly for that, that and nothing else. The minister announces we will change the Health Insurance Act, force private insurance companies to provide at the same price and risk groups. Oh, come on! Private insurance regulators regulate and give certain licences for the work of HANFA, not the health minister. They belong in the financial sector. Guys, I'd better not say that insurance houses are treating medical examinations, or magnetic resonances. They treat it like damage, for them it's a shame. Guys, I can't talk about respecting patients with that termology, but just so you know, private insurance is too bad. Just so you know! So we're talking about those terms. And the minister allows himself to say publicly that he will force private insurance companies to provide risk groups on equal terms. That's impossible! Why is the public being deceived? Instead of saying here what is the real cause of the financial problem and what this additional health insurance as a public insurance that has an annual income of 2 billion kuna has a billion and 400,000 kunas of annual income from citizens of pure cash, the only institution that can daily intervene and cover these obligations for which it is intended in health care. We thus announce the purchase of a policy, by announcing the acquisition of the participation we favour private insurance companies and the dispersion of public insurance rather than giving him legal status so that he can fight competition because he can offer much more than a private insurance company. I understand about Ines Strenja-Linić, but I don't know about MOST, where in this process they see public interest? He'll vote for something that's against public interest. And the public interest is to have a strong, non-profit public insurance company. That everyone has the right to health care, everyone and those who are poor and those who are old and those who are risky. Remember, private insurance companies don't provide more than 65 years of age. Only a public security guard does that. Until a few days ago, they provided 150 kunas and a supplemental list, a list of B medicines. They haven't done that since 1.06. Private insurance companies return 55 to 60% of the funds they collect. The public insurance company returns 88% of the funds to the health system. So I'm asking you once again, we're going to vote publicly on this, possibly, never knowing what's going to happen after this afternoon, I'm asking you if you recognize the public interest in strengthening a public non-profit insurance company? Or are those our socialist delusions? If Obama had a system like this, he'd be a lifetime president of the United States, regardless of the Constitution, because he'd be worshipped by people. He doesn't have it, he doesn't have this opportunity that we have with a public security guard. But we want everything that's good because I don't know about rematch against the former government, I don't know why, because of the stupidity or the interest of personal destruction and giving to private insurance companies. The private initiative is good and desirable in competition, but if I can provide a cheaper model of a public non-profit insurance company and fully consume the constitutional category of rights to the health of Croatian citizens, then it is my obligation to strengthen the public insurance company. That's how the responsible state does it. The responsible state has the right to say the last government has made these mistakes, we'll deal with it better. There's no right to say they didn't pay, so we won't pay. Because we too inherited some debts from our government and paid for everything neatly. And of course there's something left open. And there's no dilemma and that's how it's going to happen in the next government changes. The new government will always inherit some of the old. But isn't it nice what's going on in my colleague's town here, Maria Ilic, that the current mayor finishes all the projects of the former mayor neatly, isn't that nice? Can't we in Croatia grow out of our own vanity and weakness? Can't we assess what's good and what's public interest and put it in the first place? Does anyone want to lose the minister's position to get severance from private insurance? I can doubt anything that is possible because the story is suspicious, because the figures speak against that story and against these activities. The minister can say whatever he wants, but he did not see and did not want to see the actual results of the business of the additional health insurance service of the Croatian Health Insurance Office which has a special account, and everyone under the rule and by law has a special account so that they could compete with private insurance companies and all data can be seen and analysed transparently. He didn't see them and he didn't want to see them. He's already come out that with money collected from supplementary health insurance, he's going to settle debts in the health care system against the law. Understand that it is illegal and the minister cannot propose anything contrary to the legal regulations adopted by this high house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11770	Thank you very much. Now the word will be taken, the closing word will be taken by the esteemed Minister Dario Nakic. Minister of Health, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11771	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I am glad that this debate has actually pointed to something that is obvious, and it is obvious that our health system is in trouble and it is obvious that reforms are needed that will lead to this system stabilising. It is also obvious that this debate on reform will not be something that is beautiful, something that is desirable, something that everyone will agree on. Reform means change, and change means that what we've been doing so far hasn't been so good, we're going to have to do something else. In the very changes to this law we have focused on the first reform of emergency medicine aware in fact of the fact that we need to ensure that those people who are really sick, those people who are really health-hazarded get the opportunity to quality and get that health care service. On the other hand, in these amendments to the law, we also looked back on the changes in health insurance, aware that the constant increase in costs for the treatment of our patients is present, that only for a group of particularly expensive medicines last year was spent 150 million more than a year before the 20% increase and we are aware that we should maintain the level of health care that we can provide to our patients. We can say whatever we want, we can only issue a list of good wishes here, but we have to face reality. The reality is that we must really implement these reform measures first and then go ahead and scratch into what has already been announced here as a really big problem, and this will be a complete reform of the hospital system as a significant work and a major actually segment of health care in the Republic of Croatia. I therefore ask you to support these amendments to one law and another to actually lead to stability or at least the beginning of the stability of the health system in the Republic of Croatia. During this debate, certain conclusions were reached, these were the conclusions of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and the Club of Representatives of the HSU and the independent list of Stipe Petrina on amendments and additions to the Law on Obligatory Health Insurance and the Health Protection Act that the debate was conducted in the reading process, the Government did not accept these conclusions. ... [[The intruders can't be heard.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11772	Would you please shut up so the minister can say what he wants to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11773	The amendment of the Legislative Committee also arrived on a proposal to amend the Law on Obligation of Health Insurance and the Health Protection Act, where it is actually nomotechnical statements, and also the Government does not accept those amendments. ... Mr. Peđa Grbin and Mrs. Ana Comparić-Devcic have arrived on the fact that the amendment not to charge emergency hospital reception services for emergency patients that really emergency patients will not be charged with such services, such an amendment is not accepted. [[The intruders can't be heard.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11774	I welcome the Prime Minister. Here, join us. We had some sort of replica, I think, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Yes, the esteemed representative Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11775	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here's because the situation is what it is and the concentration is quite low, I just wanted to warn you that Article 142 has been broken. Rules of Procedure. So I sent a lot of parliamentary questions, at least five of them passed in the second month, even more when the answer was not sent. So I invite you as President of the Parliament to fight for the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11776	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I agree absolutely with you. I have already asked both the ministers and the government to do so in time because it is their obligation to answer questions. And once again, I'm using the opportunity to publicly invite them to that. I'd like to conclude a debate on this agenda point. And we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. The following is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance, first and second reading, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 74. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The SDP Representatives' Club and the HSU Representatives' Club and the Independent List of Stipe Petrina proposed the adoption of the following conclusion. The final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act was discussed in the first reading. All objections and proposals from the debate will be addressed to the applicant to take them into account on the occasion of the completion of the final draft law. During the debate, the government's representative did not accept the proposed conclusion and I am voting on a proposal for a conclusion that was not accepted by the government's representative. Who's in, please? Please score. 62, we don't have a quorum. So we can't go any further with the conclusions. Here it is, unfortunately we can't discuss this any further at all about these laws. And now, finally, colleagues and colleagues, with this, today we end the work of the Parliament, today the work of the Parliament, is it? I remind you that the ceremony session of the Croatian Parliament will be held on the occasion of the day of Statehood on Saturday at 12 o'clock here, so of course I invite you all to come to this and mark State Day. Thank you very much! Session interrupted at 12.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11854	Mr. President, when you quoted the provisions of Article 125. Rules of Procedure, so you put an emphasis on paragraph 4. However, it is as legitimate as paragraph 8 that you have read and it allows the Prime Minister and the Government representatives to take the floor during this debate, i.e. to receive the word and to discuss it neatly and to also present their final presentation before the end of the session, or point, before the motions are presented. Therefore, there are no restrictions on allowing Prime Minister Oreshkovic here to speak during this agenda point and report whenever he thinks it is necessary because this allows him not only Article 125(8) but also paragraph 233 as you have stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11855	Your colleague, of course, missed the target because you said what I said except that the fact that you can't deny it and no one can deny that the Rules of Procedure have been broken because Article 125 clearly states that the Government is obliged to manifest itself on the proposal for this article no later than 8 days from the day of the proposal being included in the agenda. The government didn't do it. So it's very clear and everything else you've agreed with me. So I don't see what the problem is for us to continue this part of the session today. Here you are, he has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative of Stipe Petrina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11856	Thank you, Mr. President. There aren't a few hours that you spoke quite differently this morning when I warned you of violating the Rules of Procedure by quoting Article 125. You forget that the special chapter in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament refers to the agenda from Article 224 to Article 230. Therefore, if you are calling and Article 125. Rules of Procedure and his articles, then, please refer to the specific subject of the Rules of Procedure, which is called the agenda and the establishment of the agenda, because one without another cannot. Exception when you need it since everything in this House is unfortunately... When you need to quote article 125, you stick to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I beg you as my colleagues have said, both articles are equally equal. So stick to the rules of procedure and please stick to it strictly. This morning you said that you couldn't put something on the agenda that doesn't have a reason for the government, and there was a reason for the motionor, and today we also have a case now that the government hasn't been manifested, let's take it off the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11857	Comrade Petrina, I'm this morning, and if you don't remember correctly, remember, look at the phonogram, it's exactly what I told you I'm not breaking the agenda, but I'm going to break it consciously today, and I am now consciously doing it precisely to allow the Prime Minister to present his opinion. You can take me for that, I don't know what to do to me. And for your answer once again, since you obviously didn't realize when I answered you a few hours ago, I'll read what Art. 224 says. "The President of the Assembly may, at the sitting itself, amend the draft agenda in such a way as to leave out certain topics from the proposed agenda or to supplement the agenda for new topics." Therefore, please read the Rules of Procedure if you want to discuss it. Thank you very much. You can't take this anymore. Here's my colleague, Pecnik. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11858	I'm sorry, I'm in breach of the Rules of Procedure. When you spoke of article 125, you said that you would be here shortly earlier, knowingly breaking the Rules of Procedure. I want to calm you down. You won't, you won't break the Rules of Procedure because the motion for impeachment was included in Parliament's work on June 8th, which means the deadline expires today at 24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11859	Thank you very much for comforting me, colleague Pecnik. Can we continue this session? So, I'm now going to ask a representative of the proposings of this point, I'm sorry, Your Honor, Mr. Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11860	Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure speak of your authority. Today, a proposal to launch a trust issue is being discussed for the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Oreshkovic. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is not yet defined, so it is asked for the opinion of some constitutional experts better or worse to interpret the gap where the Constitution has not been laid down. This Rules of Procedure isn't finished either. It is in your jurisdiction to choose to allow Prime Minister Oreshkovic to speak to this House long enough to explain everything he hides behind this initiative after his shift. Also, Prime Minister Oreshkovic, when deciding on his head but also on the Prime Minister, is obliged to answer any question addressed from these parliamentary benches that has no answer to today. Prime Minister Oreshkovic cannot be removed today without being allowed to speak as long as it takes for the parliamentarians but also for the Croatian public to know what is unknown today. He cannot leave this House, he cannot leave the post of Croatian Prime Minister without responding to all these strangers and working for the Croatian Parliament and for the sake of the Croatian public and for the sake of Croatian duty, for the sake of the Croatian state. Therefore, I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure, to be as patient as possible, and to allow the Prime Minister to step forward as much as he needs and to ask for a word and answer the question and answer the question that arises from the discussion of parliamentary deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11861	So, fellow Chief. First of all, I didn't violate the Rules of Procedure that you took for an excuse to say this. Secondly, you broke the Rules of Procedure because you spoke for a minute and 26 longer than you should have. And thirdly, I have just said that I also read that the Prime Minister has the opportunity to speak and speak for 15 minutes in the opening statement, when each explanation is given during the debate he can speak and this is necessary normally. I just said it. Don't yell from the spot! [[You can give him 30 minutes to start there right now.]] Buddy, you've already got, you can't get any more injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Petrina, you can't have a word. [[Attack Petrina: But you constantly violate the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11862	While you insist on breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11863	Now we're going to cross to the point at last. After these playthings, I'm going to ask the proposer's representative to further explain the proposal. On behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Ivan Shuker, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11864	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government. Perhaps it would have been easier for everyone if the government had respected its business obligation, which is that it was obvious about the reasons why HDZ representatives and parts of the Patriot coalition signed a motion for resolution. non-voting mistrust to the Croatian Prime Minister. So, it would probably be easier for all of us, but obviously when Croatia wants to be politicized and politics is above all else, it is not important that neither acts nor anything that is brought into this House, because if we were to be unique about anything, then we should be unique about the fact that whoever has to commit to the Croatian Parliament has to do whatever it takes to be nice or unlikable to anyone and when we start acting like this, then the Croatian public will experience us differently. My colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Club was against the Rules of Procedure. You voted him on the left. It clearly states that the Prime Minister must be shown about the request within 8 days, the President of the Parliament called the Prime Minister yesterday, since he cancelled yesterday's scheduled session and scheduled for tomorrow, so on purpose, it can be said that the Government was not there and asked if he would have a phone session because it seems to have become commonplace. Are we going to get a sign? We won't. But me not to go into political waters on behalf of the club, I will stick to the acts by which the three governments worked, she worked from 2011, the government of Mr Milanovic worked and worked for 6 months by the government of Mr Oreshkovic. And from these provisions of the Law on the Croatian Government, I will ask myself some questions to you and to myself, we come up with a simple answer to whether it is justified or unjust to call off the Prime Minister. So, exclusively based on legal acts. Well, let's get going. Article 10 says the Prime Minister represents the Government, convenes meetings, presides over them, manages the work of the government and signs acts, etc. If the Prime Minister appoints the first Deputy Prime Minister, he replaces the Prime Minister in the event of his prevention and absence, the replacement of the Prime Minister is not possible in matters of decision-making procedures, government trust, appointment and resolution. We had a case that two weeks ago a government meeting was canceled, actually the prime minister left. No one explained why, but later I'm going back to that cabinet session, because it's actually one of the very important things to ask for a resolution. It happened here and in the past times that the Prime Minister was leaving, but the first Deputy Prime Minister or to whom he appointed continued to hold the session. So it's just talking about that the government in a certain way has come into a situation that doesn't work. The Deputy Prime Ministers shall coordinate the work of the ministries and worry about the implementation of the Government's programme in the area in charge. Now there's a key question. Was that so specific to this government? Whether the Deputy Prime Ministers were in charge of certain ministries and, in accordance with Article 10, co-ordinated and conducted the work or did not happen, we had what was in the media that every minister had performed as he was fit and spoke to him in charge of this and that, and Article 10 clearly speaks about how the Government should function, how it should. But if she's not set up like that, then she can't function like that. Article 11 of the Prime Minister may give specific instructions to members of the Government for work, specific tasks and powers in implementing and implementing certain projects in accordance with the Government's programme, or in accordance with the conclusions and other acts of the Croatian Parliament, and adopted by the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. To be honest, I, as a representative of the largest club in the Parliament, have no idea that something like this has happened. And the consequence of all that is expensive is colleagues and colleagues the number of laws we have discussed in this House concerning this government. That's the facts. And we can talk to each other here today one way or another, but that's just facts. And here I want to speak plainly on behalf of the club about facts. The Prime Minister determines one of the government's vice-presidents to coordinate the actions of the government's representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I honestly don't know if you President of the Parliament got any information from any of the government or vice presidents you should call when there's some kind of dispute about who, how to represent the government in the Parliament. Article 16 and what I think is the most important thing that has led to the government's dysfunction, which has led to the lack of respect for the political will of Croatian voters, which is the Government's narrow cabinet made up of the president and vice-presidents. The government's narrow cabinet proposes, implements the government's policies, monitors the implementation of the government's work programme, discusses certain issues... Governments, and coordinate the work of government members in carrying out entrusted tasks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Other members of the government as other persons designated by the Prime Minister may also be sent to the meeting of the U.S. cabinet. We didn't once have a situation here that we in the ruling majority acted differently, that the government, that is. A tight cabinet did its job, if he'd sent him here, then that wouldn't have happened. Because simply MPs are here to implement decisions that have been agreed on by certain bodies and can't happen disharmonically. Because if all members of the government, colleagues and colleagues I ask you nicely, I beg you nicely. I can finish and no problem. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11865	Comrades and colleagues, allow your colleague Shuker to say what he wants to say regardless of your enthusiasm with him and what he says.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11866	So, I am therefore in the opening section that, because of the complete situation in Croatia, I will try to avoid political and political assessments, I will try to avoid any personal convictions or anything. But simply manage the facts that, unfortunately, led to this situation that led to it. Mr. Minister, you are a guest in this House and I beg you to behave accordingly. I hope you don't think I'm gonna start being investigated. This Regulation shall enter [[/Intruder: Whoa.]] [[/Intruder President: I ask you first to calm down, and the second to allow fellow Shucker to say what needs to be said. Here's my colleague Shuker.]] Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which was last amended in 2015, staff issues. The Staff Committee shall lay down proposals for the appointment and resolution of officials and civil servants, and members and other bodies appointed and resolved by the Government, determine salaries for government officials when the law is prescribed, etc. Has this happened in the last six months? Apparently not. So much for certain government provisions that, if they were respected, probably wouldn't have led to government dysfunction. Probably the Prime Minister would have noticed that certain things were not working and the Prime Minister would have simply had to react. Look, we often like to call on the reach of Western democracies, the overseas democracies, but look what happened here is the ruling majority who proposed Mr. Oreshkovic as a candidate simply said at one point that he no longer has confidence in him and that he asked him to step down. Everywhere out there would be a move... with your own explanation. [[You don't understand.]] But in Croatia, no. My colleagues and colleagues are returning to the meeting two weeks ago, the finance minister returns from London with a message because the fact that investors raised actually suggested a higher interest rate for borrowing does not necessarily mean that it will be so. All those on the road show know how these things are done. However, it was then sent, and I publicly communicated it and said, simply give a message to Croatia, if you do not add the interest rate will be so great to you, and you yourself calculate how much this will cost you over the next few years because you know what your borrowing obligations are. I will say it openly here, I have said it several times for this speaker, Croatia is a country which at this point does not deserve a higher interest rate from 2.5 to 2.75 maximum compared to other countries. However, some white-world rating agencies and others are using the situation and of course why not take advantage of the opportunity to make money for those who simply have to take money, if not now have to take it in a month. And what in principle has broken our HDZ decision that simply Mr. Oreshkovic is not doing his job is a good session of the government that was to be held that day. The finance minister probably verbally informed the Prime Minister about what happened. In my opinion, then, the Prime Minister had to start a session with the findings of what happened in London. And in such a way, send a message to everyone who at that time can or cannot function that they do not have the right to pay all Croatian citizens a higher interest rate. But what's going on? The Prime Minister is canceling the government and leaving the government. But according to us at that point, it was a first-class political issue and a first-class political responsibility for the Prime Minister to say what he had to say about it at the beginning of the cabinet session, and then to the Minister of Finance to inform. Why am I saying that? Well, because even colleagues in the opposition were very abstentioned about the assessment of the interest rate, aware of what this meant for Croatia in the long term. So, I'm completely honest with you. That just suggests that we were right. That you Prime Minister simply had to hold that session, if not in that moment if you went somewhere else you had to hold it in two or three hours. You simply had to speak to the Croatian public. You and the finance minister at that point had the only knowledge of what had happened. I repeat, this is not the definitive interest rate Croatia will pay but if these things are not respected, the interest rate could be even higher in the 9th month. And instead of paying interest between 2.5 and 2.75 maximum 3 we will unfortunately cross over 5%. And then what happens to us? That one of the strongest banks because it didn't get likely to be a bond arrangement dead cold down to not buy Croatian bonds but to buy bonds from Serbia and Hungary. And instead of the government answering at that time, wait for the gentlemen while Croatia was in the phase of negotiations for EU accession, then you told us you are a risky country, which is why you have a risk coefficient of so much and so much and you pay such an interest rate. And instead of the team, if we could have agreed, he could have told Boris, I could have said it myself, he could have said it to any of the other former ministers and I think we would have agreed to send them a message you have no right to do it to Croatia if you told us before that we were paying a high interest rate. However, such a reaction did not occur, but no one from the government reacted. But it has to happen. You, Mr. Prime Minister, must respond at that time. Why? Because all indicators end up and only Croatia's EU membership places Croatia in a country that is no longer high-risk for the placement of capital. We're just not like that anymore. And the second thing, if the European Commission gave a positive opinion on the reform programme sent by this government, then that was also an argument that you will not answer that question. Unfortunately, however, that did not happen. We're into some kind of political games and games, and we're here today where we are. Unfortunately, we're going to have to be in charge for a month or two, because we have to refinance certain liabilities, but that interest rate is going to be what it is just because we haven't responded. So why am I saying all this to my colleagues and colleagues? I speak for a reason because it's the responsibility of the Prime Minister when he notices at a certain point that certain things don't work to react. Well, regardless of the situation that has arisen, the Croatian public and others may look at it differently. But why was I talking about this problem? Because this is a general Croatian problem. He has no omens, no SDPs, no HDZ omens, no MOST omens, no sign of anyone. Whoever manages the Croatian state tomorrow or in a year or five will inherit these bonds that will be issued at an interest rate that are realistically 2% higher than what should be. And that is the real problem of Croatia. It is not a problem for Croatia what the government will look like today or tomorrow, this is a problem Croatia has not responded to and we had to react to. And we're talking about what the problem is, let's not talk about what's not the problem. It's not a problem if it's going to be 76 hands like this or if it's going to be 76 hands like that. It's just that this is an incendiary. Why didn't this inaction happen? I won't talk about it. What had to happen if the government's session didn't take place? It's one thing when the finance minister sends a message, another thing is when the Prime Minister in the government sends a message to the nation. And that was the time for the first time since your term of office, Mr. Prime Minister, for you to send a message. That everything that has been going well and good grades that the government has unfortunately received in the last month and that those without which we cannot operate, not only us, but also the interest rate of Croatian citizens at which they will be in debt, depends on that interest rate and the interest rate of the Croatian economy. Now, you know what it means when you in the EU's open borders and that's one of the reasons why Croatia boasts today that it has such an increase in exports, you compete for a job, so you capital to finance this job cannot get below the 5.5, 6.5% interest rate, while at the same time your competitor gets that capital up 1%. Practically the total difference in the price you have has eaten your interest. So much for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. When we talk about the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. And that's one of the segments. Why is my debate the way it is? Well, because when I defended Mr. Oreshkovic's proposed programme on behalf of the HDZ Club, I spoke exclusively about economic issues. Why? It's easy to run politics, and that's when I said it when you have a full budget. Then you can say that we're going to increase the welfare, this is what we're going to do, this is what we're going to do. But if you have a budget like Croatia today, then it's very difficult to run any policy. And so it doesn't turn out that the HDZ club is dysfunctional, I just want to have continuity, continuity of what we said as a club at the moment of this government's inauguration. And by the end result of 6 months, if you honestly say who you wanted, who didn't want to admit but pointed out after 4 months that a good economic thing could happen to Croatia. If there have been some political problems, if there has been an inability to cooperate with some people, then it is not that any minister or anyone interprets it through the newspapers as it pleases him. That's not how the government works. This is being resolved within the Government, it is the task of the Prime Minister and I have therefore quoted these provisions from Article 10 to Article 17. The law on the Croatian government. And in the end, I ended up not being long, because I said I wouldn't go down to any personal level of conversation, anyone, and I'm sorry that one of the ministers reacted to my speech like he did, so I told him what I told him. I'll finish my argument on behalf of the club for starters, and during the debate we'll see. Because colleagues and colleagues can think of whatever we want today Croatia has nominally today, regardless of the increase in the rate from 23 to 25, regardless of the increase in excise duties that they bring with that base almost 2 billion kunas more into the budget, almost 10 billion less revenue than they were in 2008. And I think that's what we all need to do when we talk about how Croatia should look like the thought we have to start from, because if we don't start from it we're going to go the wrong way, we're going to deal with politics and politics, but ultimately it all ends up in numbers and it all ends up being that the interest in the state budget at this point is 11 billion. This was an ideal opportunity to reduce that amount because many of the loans that were raised in 2008, when it was, when interest went to heaven, we could refinance with interest rates that were almost double. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11867	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker of yours has caused several replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11868	Here's my colleague Schucker talking about democratic standards, about high democratic standards. So let's take an example of what happened to your party president on the example of Mr. Oreshkovic. Mr. Oreshkovic works in Canada in the pharmaceutical industry and that his wife works for the competition. I think a little business partner would believe him or want to work with him. Therefore, when we talk about democratic standards what your party president has done is in any normal country abnormally, it cannot be tolerated, it should have been understood long ago, it should have resigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11869	My colleague Sincic, you have abused the Institute of Replications because you have not replicated at all what your colleague Schuker said. I don't know if he wants to answer or needs to answer but what you said had nothing to do with what he said. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stipa Petrina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11870	Thank you. Your Honor, here's Mr. Shucker, saying the government violated the government's laws and regulations. I'm not getting into that. But I would ask Mr Shuker which serious parliamentary majority or how they like to beat themselves a relative election winner can select the most influential and strongest position in one country within 3 hours? I ask about this and the presentation, I ask Mr. Shucker, Mr. Shucker whether it was decided on the bodies of the relative electoral winner or, as is generally known, that staff solution came from outside Croatia. That's the first thing. The second thing is, you've still looked back here at the shortfall in the purchase of the RS bonds and tried to minimize it. Let's say it wasn't offered at 5, it was offered at 5.6 which is approaching the blackest scenario when you were selling for 5.99, when you were Minister of Finance. So why this topic in the Croatian Parliament was not discussed. What is it that foreign investors or how I like to tell them about lenders know what the Croatian Parliament, what the Croatian Government is at the end of the line, what Croatian citizens who don't know about it all? Is it Mr. Shuker, tell us, is there a much worse scenario in front of us? Let's not forget that the Employment Service can't pay the fees, it's only till the 2nd month. So 7.5 billion missing in the budget, calculated by me, 15.6% and 20, and a few days we'll be in the financial vacuum. But that's not all, you said now that we're being hired for a month...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11871	Thank you, thank you, dear colleague Petrina. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11872	Comrade Petrina, I think I've been clear enough in my debate. And I think I was open and honest enough when I was talking about some problems because they just exist. And they need neither to be blinded nor to be hidden. But just as I was saying four years ago, let's not tell our colleagues on this side of the assembly that we should keep a credit rating or those who have told us for years that we have such a credit rating because we are in the EU, you are giving us a bonus now because we have entered the EU and then take it off. That's what he says now. I think we should all talk in this assembly, and I am responsible for saying this here that, after not one financial indicator of the Republic of Croatia for its duties, by looking at and comparing with other countries, it should not pay an interest rate greater than 3%. And those who want to skin us from Parliament, we must send them a unique message, no matter what political option we belong to, colleague Petrin. But if we don't act like one, they don't care, they're gonna fuck like that at the interest rate. And you know what you buy in life, if you don't need it, if you can buy it in 10, 15 days, you'll get the best price. But the one who sells it to you, if he knows that you have to buy it, you won't skin you as much as he can. And that's why my debate went this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11873	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11874	Comrade Shuker, in your presentation, you kept mentioning that the government's crisis, and because of this initiative, is due to the poor credit rating of Croatia, due to interest rates, that interest is growing. You didn't mention the problem of selling government bonds whose attempt failed last time. He failed because of the government's political instability. So the government where you are the main pillar, the bearer of that government has been for the past 4.5 months. So the problem arises beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia due to the political instability of the government. And for this political instability, the government is also responsible for the party, the strongest party of the Patriot coalition. You have not mentioned a single word of struggle, the ruthless struggle you have fought for months to control the intelligence system in the Republic of Croatia from SOA, MUP and other security segments in the Republic of Croatia. It's the key to the government's instability, which is why this government is collapsing and decommissioning after four months. In recent days, the conversation is in the Croatian public and I believe that it has also occurred to you that in the last 3 months by individuals from the Croatian government who are still an ongoing attempt to abuse this security system and that it has been brought into a major problem, the general national security of the Republic of Croatia due to such behaviours by individuals in the Croatian Government. And that this is the key and the cause of all the problems that the Croatian government is in today and why the prime minister is collapsing today. I'm not defending the prime minister, I told him on his budget that he no longer has the support of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11875	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond. .../Intruder Glavas: This is what the prime minister should talk about in these 15 minutes that he was assigned to report to both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public... as there has been abuse...../Speakers speak in the same voice, not understood. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond. I'm asking you to hold on to your time. Overdrive time. I'm asking you nicely. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11876	Comrade Chief, if you had listened carefully to my debate, then you would have found the answer for all of this. They would have found the answer. So I made it clear that upon the return of the Minister of Finance from London, when he decided that at such a high interest rate he would not issue bonds even though there was a great demand for them, there would normally be a great demand for such a high interest rate. I said that the second day the Prime Minister should not have called off the session no matter what was going on, he had to hold a session and the reasons why that interest rate went up to discuss it in a narrow cabinet because it was a first-rate point for a tight cabinet and then to address the public. And I claim that Croatia will return when they have risen again to the interest rates where it belongs. And that's what I think I'm saying between two and two, two, twenty-five, three percent max. All we have to do is send a message because all the macro-economic indicators point to that. And I don't know my colleague Glavas, which I said differently from what you said, but what I said was what the prime minister should say, maybe what he's going to say here today, and he's ahead of us today, that's because he didn't show himself on our demands. But, well, I as a proposer can manifest myself on his report, actually on behalf of the Proposer. But I repeat to you, the HDZ Club has decided today to hold such a debate in light of the shift only to send a message to all of us here in the Assembly what is the responsibility for the economic stability of the Republic of Croatia. If we're not aware of this, we'll be paying an interest rate that's higher and no one's going to help us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11877	Thank you very much. The next will take the word as a replica, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11878	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Shuker, you said on behalf of the club what you thought you should say, and that's probably hard for you, because for me as a representative of the opposition, it was a pain to listen because you spoke as if it were an interest rate law rather than an issue called the resolution of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Personally, this is my third term here, and I know something about how the party that you're in right now works, which I've been in, but I don't want to mention it personally because if there's a chance, I will, but I won't do it in this replica right now. It is my opinion that all the Ministers of the Republic of Croatia were to sit here for one reason. Although you are replacing Mr. Oreshkovic today, tomorrow the government is the technical government still the ministers sitting in that government or until some delay as to what you have announced or until new elections. If we're going to in principle why Mr. Oreshkovic left the government, I'm going to talk about the principles not of him personally. He told the public it was about going to the Security Intelligence Agency. Afterwards, the president of the Republic of Croatia who said that she had been informed and that she knew what it was about. If by the time someone left the government's session, this is where we got an explanation where the prime minister went and a week before that, the first Deputy Prime Minister and the president of your Mr. Karamarko's party went on their birthday, he didn't come to the government's session. I don't blame him for where he went, he could be celebrated privately in the afternoon, but we didn't get an explanation why he wasn't at the government's meeting when they were important points, the first vice president of the government so called didn't come to the government's meeting. We'll have plenty of time to mention. I was a witness when some key HDZ people were forced from the position of party presidents, when some colleagues sitting there, if your current president arrives today, were to throw the HDZ party card into the trash. I'm not going to say it myself, I'd be rude but I know it and I keep quiet and I watch today it's a pain in the ass in the face of the Croatian public, changing a man like he's a rag. There should be an explanation and a reason, not in general what you said. These are the problems that will await the new government, the interest, and the new government will wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11879	Thank you very much. The esteemed Ivan Shuker will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11880	Comrade Salapic, when you say as an experienced man that this was a general explanation, then I really don't know what to say. So everything in Croatia in the future is turning around this interest rate, everything, everything. Because you know how many companies in Croatia today have their own resources to fix something, and why this interest rate, because it is defined as some kind of political instability problem and that political instability is said to be the result. If we were running away from perhaps the most sensitive subject, then you wouldn't say goodbye because someone would tell me that I stuck my head in the sand in the paper but you listed everything here but against the facts that are so very difficult to discuss. These are numbers that are like that and we can only change them if we change, no different.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11881	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11882	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, it turns out that this government has committed the last 6 million to 300 thousand people, 300 thousand unemployed, 300 billion kunas of debt in which you have participated well since you mentioned former ministers. The only thing that was good for you was borrowing and today the state was brought before bankruptcy and you're one of those accomplices. I wish you had the courage at the time when you were Minister and warned about INA, the MOL example, while it was being arrested, located, transferred, delivered, most loyal sons of Croatia. I wish you had the courage not to sell 15 tons of gold without asking the citizens. Croatia is a state without a gram of gold. I wish we were filled with silos that were robbed in Djakov during your government. I wish you'd been loud when the planes were sent during the former government, combat planes on the proper flight, to Ukraine, and they were returned to the carillo and in the wheelchair. This isn't the government's fault, sir. As finance minister, your success was the borrowing that led the state as well as the previous ministers from our other side, which brought Croatia to this level, to this debt, that our young people from Slavonia were leaving because the former Minister of Agriculture had given the funds that were meant to be small businessmen had been large. And that's why we now have 50,000 less residents in Slavonia. That's when you tried to be loud from this pay phone, not with what wasn't written to you in an explanation that you were bringing these things out here. You've written all the other things here in an explanation offensive to the Prime Minister, offensive to man as a person. So you just have to say it loudly and clearly, do not be ashamed we are destroying this government where we are now and we are provoking even greater instability and even greater financial uncertainty in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11883	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11884	And it's very difficult to respond to a replica that no one alive understands. Ask them, look, Mr. President. There are people who here, I see the minister of police laughing again sweetly, provoking and insulting. So, fellow Bully below each level would be with you to argue because you here have broken everything and everything. And the other thing, I'll just tell you one thing. The only minister who spoke publicly and was against the INA-MOL contract was me. And you have that in official documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11885	Thank you very much. Does the Prime Minister want to take his word? Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Honorable representative and vice president of Dom Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11886	The President of the Croatian Parliament of Words called the Vice-President of the Croatian Government asking for a word and you denied him the right to speak. In view of this debate under Article 125 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the 8th Prime Minister, or a member of the Government, may give a speech before the proposal's final speech, and may also report and receive a word during the debate to explain. Therefore, a member of the Government may report for a word based on this business provision and receive a word during the debate. This is a debate. A member of the government called in a word. I don't know why you think he doesn't have the right to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11887	I'm very surprised at you. You're a lawyer, a professor at law school and the chairman of this House's Committee on Rules of Procedure and other things. How can you ask such a question now and you know very well that the whole story applies exclusively to the question of trust to the Prime Minister and this is very clear in Article 125, that if it is a single member of the Government, of course that this member of the Government can be manifested and that it will be obvious. But there's no point in saying that any member of the government can be shown by asking a question to the Prime Minister. So, I'll go back to the original question. So the original question is that the government has not shown itself at all about it and in fact I have made my position very clear. So, volunteering, my volunteering is that the prime minister and I think it's okay, I think it's democratic that the prime minister can be obvious about the things that concern him. But that anyone else in the government can report and discuss anything about it has no say in Article 125, and you know it very well. So, of course, Article 125 is wrongly interpreted and no one else can speak now but the prime minister, so now I call on whether Mr. Prime Minister wants to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11888	Honorable President Reiner, distinguished MPs, ladies and gentlemen. It's a great honor to speak to you today. First of all, I would like to thank all the representatives for the trust they have shown me in order to assume this honorable duty. Unfortunately, instead of discussing the positive results of government work, reforms and economic growth, which all economic indicators confirm today, we are discussing a proposal by a group of MPs for my impeachment. The charges against me are heavy and it is my duty and obligation to be seen as Prime Minister in front of this honorable House. I'm telling you right now, all the charges against me are false and unfounded. Never in the history of Croatian democracy has it happened that the ruling majority or part of it has initiated the opposition of the Prime Minister whom they have chosen, and especially with such heavy accusations. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to make it clear to you all the real reason for my impeachment is none of what is stated in the proposal. The first charge that I want to introduce an office dictatorship is so absurd that I won't use words on it. Secondly, I resolutely reject the thesis that I have abused and politicized our services. The problem is I haven't been pressured to put the SOAs at the top of the line who, according to my grades, didn't meet the basic requirements for the job. I made the decision to appoint Mr Markic along with the President of the Republic. The decision was based on the Constitution and was made in the best interests of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Markic's work so far has shown that I am not mistaken. All my contacts with our security services were within my legal and constitutional powers. And that's all I can say about it. That's why I became an obstacle. It is no secret that my views about INA, LNG and the energy sector differ significantly from the views of some members of the government and that I have firmly defended them. I am deeply aware of the importance that INA and the energy sector have for our economy and I have struggled to protect our vital national interests. Third, as for the assumption that by asking for the resignation of my vice presidents, I have lost the trust of those who chose me, I want to tell you that I did this because the uncertainty that resulted from the possible conflict of interest of Mr. Karamark has become too much of a burden for this government. We now know that the commission finally found that it was in conflict of interest. All the time, I've been appealing to individuals' personal responsibilities as a fundamental principle. Fourthly, when it comes to the absence of the will to co-operate with the representatives of the political forces that have given me confidence, I completely reject those allegations. I've been trying very actively to communicate with Mr. Karamark. Unfortunately, the last two months he has completely ignored my calls for a conversation. He showed no interest in economic issues and reforms. Fifth, it's a complete lie that I didn't take care of the places our young people move out of. I remind you that my first official visit to Croatia was just a visit to Slavonia. I met with farmers, entrepreneurs to hear firsthand about the difficulties they struggle with every day. I've arranged for oil and gas research, and last week it's worth half a billion kuna. That's what this government can say and Mr. Panenic here fought to activate that investment again worth half a billion. This government had the opportunity to activate another 10 for a billion, and that is without oil being found, which would mean Croatia and Slavonia. The activation of suspended European agricultural funds in Slavonia worth 160m euros is also an indicator of what we did. And a few small investments. Sixthly, I find it particularly incomprehensible that I did not deal with economics and financial issues. I remind you that before the official takeover of this honorable position, I met in Kitzbühel with 80 to 100 investors holding a large share of our public debt. They told me this is the first time I can remember that they spoke to the Croatian prime minister personally. From the very beginning, I have been paying attention to the financial stability of this country. From the first day until today, I've been focused on economic growth. You all know that this plan 2% of GDP growth that I am convinced will be better, reducing the deficit below 3% that both the IMF and the European Commission have confirmed, improving the credit rating, from the first day I'm talking about improving credit ratings and how? We watched that we could activate these state-owned assets in which the pension funds would eventually invest, that the citizens would have these assets, and we would use these money so that we could reduce the public debt and then we could get better interest. That's what I've been saying since day one, and this government has been there in focus. Employment is growing, wages are growing, exports are growing. When we look here, I'd say every indicator is going in a positive direction. Then we presented a national reform programme that describes over 60 measures to launch Croatia. The European Commission already knows this programme has seen it as ambitious. At the same time, we have launched large investments such as the railway line Long Village-Križevci for 200m euros. We are about to open a tender for the Pelješki Bridge for 450m euros. Luka Gruz, projects for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, support for research and development of 100m euros. And when it comes to investors, I personally met with the leaders of IBM, Canadian... the Indian ACG that invested in... [[You don't understand.]] and a few others. [[You don't understand.]] On every trip outside Croatia I found the time to meet with foreign investors or in Munich 20 or last week when I was in Paris with 20. I made a great effort to create a positive investment climate in Croatia. Which investors themselves confirm. They recognize that we speak their language. The LNG that we've been talking about for 10 years this government has defined within 3 months a new strategy for floating LNG which model will be able to realise faster, which means new jobs and... energy sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The strategic project will put Croatia on Europe's energy map. Croatia will have great economic and geopolitical significance in the EU. These are just some examples that we've been working specifically. In the end, how do you explain that, in addition to these accusations, I was offered to be Vice-President of the Government for Investment and Finance. I've shown you that all of these reasons are unfounded. The question is, what is the real reason for the government's collapse? The real reason is that in order to protect national interests, I started working on a solution to the INA-MOL dispute through the continuation of arbitration and the start of new negotiations that did not suit some. It will remain noted that this government is if you decide to fall for the personal interests of individuals. I tried to stop it, and it's my only fault. I have performed my duties as Prime Minister with honor and in the best interests of the Republic of Croatia. I'm proud of everything I've done as Prime Minister for all my failures, and I accept my responsibility. I can calmly say that I did my best. I thank you for your support and for the Patriot coalition and the MOST who proposed me to this honorable duty. I thank all the members of the government for their cooperation. Dear representatives on your part now is your responsibility to decide whether or not you're going to bring down this government. History is being written today. I deeply hope that Croatia will find its right path and that we will achieve our potential. This is primarily due to those who gave their lives, lives and health to Croatia. A high price is paid for our freedom and democracy and we must never forget it. May God save Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11889	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit, Mr. Prime Minister. He is the first to be respected representative of Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11890	Mr. Prime Minister, it's not at all controversial or debateable that it will bring you down, it will bring you down. These will bring you down because they're in government and they couldn't rule because of you, through you. And these will bring you down because they want to come to power. So there's no dilemma at all. You're dead. We will be restrained in your destruction. You're wondering, and you're saying that the accusations made by Mr. Schucker are false, difficult, untrue, you explain the reasons, but where you're crucially skipping. You're talking about pressures for the leading position in SOA when the leader Markic was changing, but at the same time you're saying that you can't talk about the work of security services anymore. You must tell this House what has been going on around security services in the past few months, especially in the last three months. The conversation is in Croatia that there has been an abuse of security services by individuals from your government. Who are these people? What kind of abuse was there? This is what this Croatian Parliament must know and you cannot leave this place until you meet the Croatian Parliament. And you can't cover that you only report to the security system under the law. Nothing, you will not violate the law if you discover in this Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public what happened in the security services, who wanted to rule the security services and drive them into their own personal and party interests? That's what this Parliament needs to know. And the background of your move is that you have not allowed yourself to be manipulated by the installation of certain people in the security system of the Republic of Croatia. There are all the problems that have started and why you have to leave today and you don't want to say it in public here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11891	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11892	... I've already said mine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, you all know that me and the president of the Republic of Croatia together are deciding who's going to be SOA's employee and that's what we did. You also know that me and the president of the Republic of Croatia are getting information... If it is,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can confirm that national security is not in danger and if there are any such topics I am convinced that it would be in public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11893	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11894	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Prime Minister, President of the Parliament, I would ask you according to the Rules of Procedure as he spoke to the Prime Minister here to keep talking all the time, so I don't hear myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11895	I agree with you, and every time I ask my colleagues to shut up and let someone who says that in peace say what they want to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11896	This is the first time in the history of Croatian democracy that we are discussing in this way the mistrust of the current Prime Minister so that those who wish to remain in power, and that those who wish to come to power all legitimately, but please, if you do not want to debate, let us who wish. Mr. Prime Minister, may I remind you, our representative club has personally given you support at the presentation of your government. You lost her when our amendments to Slavonia that you mentioned were rejected all of them. It was $185 million. What I want to say to you as a man, I told you this and in the debate the first time you needed it, and I congratulate you on the courage to come to this country in this way from the business that you did to someone at the end of yours, I can say, you are a good man, your time political in Croatia kicked out of government as if you were not representing anything. I now address you with the principle of counsel and man, not the principle of whether I belong there or here. What you're saying today would be easier for you if you'd resigned and resigned nicely, the vote will be what it will be, and you'll have to leave. And I congratulate you on having the courage to come here and talk like this. It would be as good as Mr. Glavas said to say everything you know because the Croatian state earned after years of war and those who created this country to finally take over people who would deal with the land, the economy, the finances and what you were talking about. I don't agree that SOA, I'm a member of that board becoming someone's home counsel and keeping quiet with the agency as if every piece of shit on the corner needs to know what SOA's doing. The SOA needs to protect national security and nobody's personal chair or anyone's personal benefit. And I call upon this high house today with dignity to escort this man because this man is no fool.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11897	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11898	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11899	My colleagues and colleagues, so please let your colleague say the same thing she wants to say, I think it's rude to talk when someone else is speaking at least in person. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11900	Thank you very much. To bring down the Government of some countries, there must be serious reasons. It's easy to find them. You can pack the facts one way or another, and they'll sound alarmy enough that we can run this issue here in front of the Parliament. But colleagues and colleagues, left and right of me, when you get up in the morning and look in the mirror, then ask yourself. You're right there to come to power, right of me, and that's your legitimate right that no one is challenging you, that's your right. You fellow left of me, you're defending something that can't be defended, and that's why you want to turn down a cliff a lot, a lot of it. And that's your legitimate right. But I ask you, where are those people we're here for, where are their interests? We don't protect their interests, we protect our own political interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11901	My colleague Rusak, I silenced my colleagues, but what you said wasn't a replica to Mr. Prime Minister. Therefore, it was some statement of yours, not a replica of what was said. So you know what a replica is. But we would now move on, when the important MPs decide to shut up, then I will continue. We would now move on to a debate and, of course, a series of representatives' clubs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli appeared, and she will take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11902	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Labourists will vote against distrusting Prime Minister Tihomir Oreskovic and I will explain why. We don't like it when Pedro hangs, especially when he's the prime minister of a country. We believe that the situation in which we are is not only the fault of Tihomir Oreskovic but also the blame of others, and this should have been the point of a proposal to launch trust with the Government of the Republic of Croatia rather than just the prime minister. The shift of Oreskovic does not help to amnesty the Patriot coalition or MOST for responsibility and guilt because of the situation we are in right now. The only thing that we're doing is providing HDZ with 30 days for the weirdest trade in this House with a code name that we don't want to contribute to in any way. We remain firm in the fact that the most honest and most democratic way to get out of this crisis is to disband the Parliament more than the government has for a long time and by destroying Tihomir Oreskovic we only give additional space to HDZ and the possibility of another form of political corruption. I underline, by self-decommissioning the Parliament, there is no 30-day deadline for various over-debts, arrangements, purchases and sales, but to go to elections immediately. It all began because of the conflict of interest of a man who is also the president of a party, which is why HDZ is harassing us all in every way to convince the entire nation that this crisis in which we are guilty is only Tihomir Oreshkovic and does not involve the first Deputy Prime Minister with persons working against the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We don't want to keep a ladder in dirty games and such public delusions. The HDZ of Oreshkovic accuses that he has misrouted the road and that is why we are going in the wrong direction. But he himself couldn't set any course without consulting the first and second Deputy Prime Minister. Love is that the HDZ assures us that the moment Oreshkovic refused to co-sign the resolution of the SOA director who lost the president's trust or when he was waiting for a full two months to sign. The second is a crime when he simply went to SOA instead of a cabinet meeting, which the HDZ Intelligence Service said began to use for something other than what their purpose and purpose was. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee on Conflict of Interests, we heard that on the Council for Coordination, the first Deputy Prime Minister asked his partners for the Directorship of Police and the Directorship of USKOK. It is obvious that the desire of Karamark for the management and control of police and secret services was stronger and greater than his patriotism and obligation to take care of the general good of all citizens and of this country as the first Deputy Prime Minister and not just his own interests. So, very simply, it all came down exclusively to the impatience of the coalition partners of the Patriot coalition and the MOST who, instead of the promised reforms, were obviously only fighting a personal war and, therefore, today would be the most honest thing to do for the impeachment of their bad prime minister whom they had set up at the moment of voting here in the assembly, only those who brought him in, who explained him to us a few months ago and assured us that this was the best decision and the best solution that Croatia needs at that time, which is the Patriot Coalition and MOST. The fact is, no one is satisfied with the work of this government. It is also a fact that HDZ assures us that it has a majority for the new government, and that is why it would be good if before the new HDZ experiment that is being prepared for us today is a general test to see who this new prime minister we already have parallel to the prime minister can count on and make sure that it will not happen to him in a few months the same thing that happens to this man here today. For the entire duration of this circus, we listen to promises or interpretations of HDZ that Croatia has no time and that they are ready with the reconstructed government and new people of fresh blood to bring Croatia out of this crisis. And the crisis was caused by the very ones who now assure us that in a few days with the new mandate, we will be much, much better. Two questions are being asked, why did they cause the crisis and what? And for all of these farces, there have been serious processes of collapse of the social state under the bat and the Patriot coalition, as well as the Most. I'm just reminding you of some. Subtracting most of the funds to associations that are involved in protecting the most vulnerable persons with disabilities and those who cannot defend themselves. The collection of health services and the announcement of the privatisation of health care. Stopping the curricula reform and taking away our children opportunities for quality education. Phone sale of state property against the law and without a draft management plan and availability of state property. I therefore appeal to President Reiner to choose from all available Fridays the nearest one, which is tomorrow and to include in the Parliament's agenda a proposal for a decision to disband the Assembly itself and to allow the debate as soon as possible so that all those who have declared that early elections are the best thing that can happen to us at this time to vote for such a decision and thus give the citizens a new opportunity to decide who will lead this country. I repeat, if laborers were to be sure that HDZ promises are different today than those we listened to a few months ago, then we would have voted for Oreshkovic's recall. However, we believe that Oreskovic is not guilty, the only one responsible for this crisis and we do not want to participate in HDZ's new experiment that solves only their interests but not the interests of Croatian citizens. Dear Prime Minister, I am truly sorry that I was right when I was 22 January, when in this House of Commons you, or your government, showed confidence in this very scenario and your inability to control, in spite of all your leadership and management skills, strange political projects that are day-to-day depending on the need of individuals who provide you with support and most of the Parliament so that it could be a quality prime minister. After all this shame and political farce in front of Croatian citizens but not only in front of Croatian citizens, but also in front of the world that organized us HDZ and partners in these few months, it would be really best for all of you who brought us here where we are in the next elections today for the sake of the benefit of the entire Croatia simply to absorb from these elections. We have heard today what practice is in Western democracies when it comes to changing the prime minister because of the lost trust of the majority that supports him, but unfortunately we have heard nothing about the practice of Western democracy when and whether or whether or not the Deputy Prime Minister resigns when his possible conflict of interest arises. And today we are here only to save the first Deputy Prime Minister of Karamark and prevent the debate over his recall here in this High Assembly. That's why we have a script like this today. That is the only truth of all of this and the only reason HDZ submitted this proposal to raise the question of trust to the Prime Minister. And a very simple question for the end, does HDZ deserve to be helped in any way in all that they've cooked and cooked these almost a month of bottoms behind us just so Karamarko would at some point because he stepped down and unfortunately only after the Commission's decision on conflict of interest became some kind of folk hero. The answer is no. What you've been cooking for us for a month is inedible, I think for every and a little reasonable man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11903	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDSS and Reformist Club, time will be shared by the distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac, and the distinguished representative Radimir Cacic continues. Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11904	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is the first time there is a point on the agenda in the Croatian Parliament on the impeachment of the Prime Minister. And like everything and things like this, it has to be or it has to come for the first time. It would have been good if this hadn't happened, but unfortunately from the very beginning, this outcome seemed inevitable, inevitable because of the way the ruling coalition was put together, inevitable because of the way the ruling coalition worked, inevitable because of the fact that in the last six months it had failed to establish a functioning government. As far as anyone is responsible for this matter, as much as Mr. Oreshkovic as the first man of the government, how many main members of the coalition are not on us here, at least not on my club to determine. But the fact is that this functionality wasn't created and the government wasn't working. Unfortunately, because of the fact that the government did not function, neither did this High House, the representative work of the people of Croatia. He has very limited assumptions that he's working. On the hood, we were under the assumption that we could be sitting, holding sessions and being the subject of criticism and the subject of an attack by the public. And that has to change. Now let me say two reasons why the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and Reformists think it is necessary for Prime Minister Oreshkovic to leave that position. The first reason, this is the first government since the existence of the Republic of Croatia that has not found a way to integrate minorities and minority policies into its programme. This is the first government that has not stopped and could not stop the rise in intolerance, conflict and anti-ethnic, anti-majority messages that have developed over the past years and that have been held in government and coalition members and that have been answered by general messages until the moment until the International Community has responded and said enough! This is the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia which is hardly real and I am one of the participants in creating this since '96. The years on this planet have been severely disrupted. And it hasn't recovered yet. The second reason for us at the SDSS Reformist club is as important as this first one is the collapse of the public legal order. Unfortunately, the public legal order of the Republic of Croatia from trust in the government, government institutions, politics and parliament by citizens who fall to very low branches, to how the bodies of public authorities and government in which there is absolutely no trust, in which people block each other, from public television to individual ministries. This is a state that cannot be corrected by certain measures of financial fiscal or any other policy because it is a state of mistrust among international creditors, among international investors. Because with such a condition, Mr. Prime Minister, it is not possible to do what you think is necessary, and that is the development and inflow of investments. And we have been through a difficult period of recovery of public legal institutions in the Republic of Croatia, to experience today that they are collapsing again. And the last thing I want to say is that if this isn't a lesson to all of us from HDZ or SDP, HBN or from another party, that in this way, no government can put together and not put together any more, that, in haste with the motives that existed in January, the government comes together with vague goals, with even more unclear possible outcomes, we can't engage in that kind of thing. So it's not a drama that we're going to have to call off today, but it's going to be a tragedy if we do it again in a month, either in three months or I don't know how much time we're going to have and when it's going to be a real opportunity to do it. Because Croatia has this kind of experiment for economic reasons, for public legal reasons, I must no longer allow myself. And we MPs have a special responsibility for that. And that's why we need to look at ourselves, not the way one of our colleagues referred to it earlier where she tells the rest of us to look at ourselves in the mirror, and it would be enough for her to turn to her first neighbor next door and look at his face and see who she is and what kind of person she is running from one party to another for a little guy like this was very much. And then we're gonna give a lesson about whether we looked in the mirror or not. This kind of experiment absolutely needs to be avoided by this Parliament, they need to avoid political parties. We should be the mirror of each other and at the same time we should be the mirror of our country. But in the best sense, that word. And not an ugly picture that we unfortunately give our citizens, a distorted picture of why people don't want to look at us. Croatia needs a new start, it needs new policies because those that have been working until recently have proved to be incorrect and have led to this. And we need new people. And the SDSS will be ready to support that new beginning, new policies and new people. And that's why he's gonna raise his hand today for impeachment, and we want Mr. Oreshkovic the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11905	Thank you very much. We have one replica. ... And I'm sorry, go ahead and then we'll do the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please be my guest, Honorary Representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11906	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, first of all, it is not by chance that we are in the SDSS and Reformists joint club, I sign everything that has been said, and I think it would be wise to listen carefully. We have before us a request for the replacement of Prime Minister Oreshkovic, which includes, of course, the fall of the Government of the Patriot Coalition and the Most, under his leadership. The attitude of the Reformist is that the experiment we've been exposed to has been here for nearly 6 months, in which the prime minister received support indirectly through the political legitimacy of the Patriot coalition and the Most definitely proved to be a failure. Responsibilities are unquestionable, and we have already spoken of this publicly, primarily in this order in the main component of the coalition, so to the Patriot coalition and then to the Most. This certainly does not esculate Prime Minister Oreshkovic in any way. You all know that we have indeed had an absolutely positive approach, with the desire to help, to give Prime Minister Oreshkovic a chance to do so at the beginning, so we really did not go and the Priors did not accept the possibility of things moving and moving away from the ideology in this country. However, it is unquestionable that the government has not been functioning since the very beginning and that during the term of office, it was contrary to the platform of action it announced in its creation. Instead of the government that brings together Croatian citizens, rather than encouraging ideological divisions, instead of the government of experts prepared and able to implement necessary reforms structured in a way that enables us to witness the growth of ideological conflicts, the re-emergence of fear in this country, 10, 15 years have passed since that time and appeared again. That's amazing, but there I am, who's been in politics for a long time and I haven't believed it in this House, but that's what happened. So unfortunately, the concept of government that is in the beginning is dysfunctional and the composition of government, which is neither professional nor capable of making and realising the serious decisions of what kind of reforms mean, so we started without ideology, profession, reform from the very beginning, only ideology, retrograde ideology, none of the profession and none of the reforms. Unfortunately, we reaffirm ourselves as a land of missed odds, not for the first time. In transition we entered with a 10m advantage over other transition countries at 100m and we missed it all, yet Bulgaria is behind us. The economic space that has been opened by entering the EU of course by the resulting growth of industrial production and exports, the lowest capital price in decades and energy, the expansion of the tourism market due to the instability in Mediterranean countries, all of this together, we do not turn this into a strong growth of GDP, we remain only on these consequences that have nothing to do with this government and rich in the past, we remain, unfortunately, a non-functioning state which is an obstacle and instead of a generator of projects and the use of European money not only with our own system and incompetence but also with our wrong political messages. This results in the loss of the highest quality of workable substances, especially generations that come into the labour market. The responsibility of the prime minister and the government is unquestionable as well as the necessity of their departure. Of course Chinese, and often we repeat it, the path to hell is sometimes filled with good intentions. What I believe deeply, and usually also say clearly what I believe, Prime Minister Oreshkovic, has, in my personal opinion, accepted my duty as a patriot, as a man who wanted to contribute to the better future of his country, his country. I have no doubt, regardless of the opinion of the vast majority of Croatian citizens, I have no doubt that they have done so and in the future many other members of both this government and the former governments and the future governments are negative policy perceptions not by accident, but I know people, many of them, the vast majority of them want but fail. Unfortunately, this government has failed. Therefore, since I am deeply convinced that only the results are the only criteria, responsibility to the citizens of Croatia, gratitude to the prime minister for what he has done well and there have been such things and not small things, and such decisions and, of course, our vote for impeachment because it is simply the result in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11907	Thank you very much. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the following will be shared by the distinguished representatives of Shandor Juhas and Furio Radin. First honorary representative of Shandor Juhas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11908	Thank you, Mr. President. The National Minority Representatives' Club means 5 of us have a unique position to vote for the mistrust of Prime Minister Oreshkovic. We symbolically supported the formation of the government, so that I as club president voted on trust the others were restrained. When there was a budget speech, we didn't support it. We didn't support him because we couldn't accept some things. Strange things have been happening over the past few years. We have a prime minister who's been elected in three hours, we have a prime minister and a prime minister who proposes the same political group, we've had ministers for three days, we have an experiment with the government, we have a weaving government, and we don't call it all. In all that, the position of minorities was quite unusual. National minorities should be a guarantee of the stability of all government. It's not good that they form it, but they should be by her side and involved in all processes important to the lives of minorities. I also believe that the role of the government is to protect national minorities, but so far it has always been, but unfortunately, Mr. Oreshkovic's government has failed in the field. And I dare say that the national minorities were pushed to the political margin and that there was not enough hearing for them. The degree of tolerance towards minorities is alarmingly low in the Republic of Croatia, confirming both the UN and the EU. Mr. Oreshkovic's government should have done everything possible to change this and to bring minorities back to dialogue, but there have been new additional conflicts and we have all witnessed what happened in the past period. The National Minority Representatives' Club has shown good faith, but the current government has not found a way to continue fruitful co-operation. How can we support the government when this same government hasn't given us any support to the minorities in the last six months? Seeking unreserved support for government decisions without the possibility of affecting human rights issues and the rights of national minorities for each minority representative were and will remain totally unacceptable. Communication with minority representatives was not or was not intended to have a coordinated and coordinated joint appearance. We would say that in Baranja we were treated unfortunately as the thirteenth pig. We started negotiating with HDZ, then the prime minister, in the end with the Deputy Prime Minister, and we always came across the surprise and the transfer of the ball from one to the other. This was a clear point of view for us and evidence that the government had no idea who was drinking and who was paying for minority policy. The funds for institutions and associations of national minorities have been reduced and they have been brought to the brink and below the limits of endurance. The funds have been allocated for the first three months at the level of temporary funding and with some users no contracts have yet been signed for 2016. So some institutions that issue weeks haven't even won a kuna for half-yearly implementation of the programme and tomorrow we'll discuss the transparency of spending these funds again. That the government has not been doing a good job and the fact that the 15.6th report is being discussed from 2014. Where are the reforms, where are the new laws? Is abolishing the seal the ultimate range of this government? The government does not speak well of the fact that nothing has been done to stop the wave of emigration of young people, there is no sign of a shift except that Slavonia and Baranja leave their families even more mass. Buses will no longer carry children to school but will transport families to Germany. That the government is not doing well is also saying that nothing has been done for the development of Slavonia and Baranja. There is no continuation of the construction of corridor 5C, no fast road through the Podravina, the irrigation of the boot, the villages fail and mosquitoes bite. Yesterday, it was reported that 240 stab wounds in 15 minutes were measured in Sarvas near Osijek. It's easy to land gentlemen in Flower Square, you go to Kopačevo or you go to Sarvas and let them stab you within 15 minutes of 240 mosquitoes. That the government isn't working well, I can see that the Baranja peasants live even harder than last year. Returns of the taken country are not resolved, incentives tend to cram, it is better to import than produce, the country has begun to get those who do not and the big ones still have the advantage over the small ones. Time's gone, we can't talk about the shift of one man and the appointment of another for two months, we need emergency measures, not bickering and politicizing. If a stable government cannot be formed to make quick and decisive decisions, new elections should be made. For the current crisis, authorities and the wider political situation in the country bear responsibility by ruling the team headed by Mr. Oreshkovic. And it would be fair and correct to act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11909	Thank you very much. Now will continue the distinguished representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11910	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The National Minority Representatives' Club has at least 3 reasons to vote for the government's impeachment. The first reason is common to a large number of people we've talked to, who stop us on the street, who want to, because because the crisis is generally present and everyone feels that crisis on their skin, and let's not forget how important people are, far more important than our fights and our opinions. This common view actually shows that people do not believe that this whole story is due to a fight between certain people but think that the reasons why this government is going to fall today or tomorrow are deeply structural. This government considers people to have been created by chance, leading a random policy today, not leading the policy of solving the problem, regardless of whether Mr. Oreshkovic is guilty, which I would personally have reserves according to such a claim or his government, or parties supporting that government. Because it's actually in the end as far as the results are concerned anyway. So it doesn't solve the problems of this government. We think it's because if the team doesn't work, I'm going to express myself in terms that are being used a lot for sport these days. If the team isn't working, of course, the thing that needs to change is the coach of that team, but unfortunately today we're not talking about mistrust, coach of this team, we're talking about mistrust of the whole team. So the first reason is that we will not give confidence today to this government that whether we perceive it as a government or as a party supported by it does not solve problems, it creates problems on the contrary. The second is the reason for the world's visional nature. The government has done nothing to prevent ideological divisions in Croatia. And we representatives of national minorities on our skin most feel these ideological divisions. Whether they are created because such a policy is a party and they support this government or that is the government after the constitution of its members and, unfortunately, it is also by the constitution of its members. She didn't stop those divisions. On the contrary, she gave wings to the conservative forces in society, to those who represent ethnic attitudes in some parts, nationalists in some parts, conservative ideas in education. And we saw what happened to the curricula reform, gender-based discrimination, gender, media narrowing of space and affirmation of ideology that was supposed to disappear in Europe in 1945. In some parts it happened. Is that why it is Prime Minister Oreskovic or the individual ministers or parties who are replacing him now, I will not enter it. The fact that this government can't function. And the fact that the debate on these topics is under way and the debate on the extremist views of Minister Hasenbegovic, the prime minister sided with it. The coach has to stand by the team member but it's not our team yet because most members of the National Minorities Club have not supported this government since the very beginning, supported and did not vote for it, supported and did not vote for the budget, and therefore there is no problem in calling this government off now when conditions have been created. The third reasons are, of course, the inherent policies of national minorities. This government has worked in areas where it has not worked against national minorities and against discrimination in society and unfortunately some parts of the government have worked extremely cold, distanced and absent from the problem of national minorities. In those five months, we actually talked only on a few occasions and only about the funds, about the money. And at that point, of course, the government has denied us and the funds so that certain institutions such as EDIT, certain daily newspapers such as... and certain associations of national minorities are in extremely difficult money problems but this is not the most important thing for the relationship between national minorities and this government. It is important that despite our repeated insistence, the government never wanted to discuss the political demands of national minorities, their rights, the documents we gave to the government, which repeatedly in several parts of the government and the president and the two vice presidents lost again, were never discussed again, the rights of national minorities were never discussed when the problems of national minorities were not discussed, never wanted to be touched, and it has a profound meaning. Not talking to national minorities just at the moment when the budget is brought, when talking about money for us was deeply humiliating and actually offensive. So, since there are structural reasons why this government cannot exist and they are structural because they do not support those who created it, those who have invented it, part of them, most of them do not support this government because this government has supported or did not prevent retrograde worlds that have appeared in Croatia and who have divided Croatia and who have divided Croatia and because this government has not respected national minorities, because it has been worthy to talk to them only when it was necessary to talk about the money, so it has, of course, denied them and never about their rights and never about politics and we are representatives like all other representatives who carry one particular policy and for all these reasons, the National Minority Club will vote for the impeachment of this Government and Mr. Oreshkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11911	Thank you very much. The next one, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, will be taken by the esteemed Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11912	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. The SDP will vote for the government's departure, formally prime minister but with the goal of leaving the entire government so that the Croatian nation can go to elections as soon as possible. We're ready for the election, but we're not happy about it because in this state, no one can be happy. The country is in a strangely restrictive state, we don't know where we are, we don't know what we are or how we belong, and when I spoke about a random state a few years ago, I was criticised, although you know what I mean and now it seems unfortunately like some dark reality we live on. We can't be a random state, and in order to stop being a country, we have to go to elections as soon as possible. The government will be called off today. There's no reason why this House shouldn't break up with this unhappiness, though I'm not saying this House is made up of non-employees. There are in all rows and colors probably both valuable and professional people, but these political circumstances make it impossible for them to do anything and do anything of their own, and that's not going to change. I said the election is ready or ready, not happy. Whoever wins will be decided by the Croatian political people. One of the options, SDP, HDZ, partners without diminishing their importance, value and contribution, we will try to bring together the largest people's progressive coalition and go by trust for a people's government which we believe with our heads, soul and heart were and wanted to be all the time. Croatia cannot be a random state. She must have and have both the head and the heart and the muscles and we owe her that back. So, ladies and gentlemen, I know that this isn't going to work out for everyone, and I don't like it either because there's no place for malice here, and we have to go to parliamentary elections as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11913	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11914	Mr Milanovicu, Croatia is not a random state. Croatia was acquired in the defensive Homeland War and these are ugly words. Mr Milanovic, during your term, Croatia was in debt 100 billion kuna. During your term of office, what the Croatian peasant and the poor should have gone to, the OPGs went to tycoons. Mr Milanovic, during your term of office, aircraft, combat troops went on a normal flight to Ukraine for a remont and returned to the cariola. Mr Milanovic, this is a normal democratic process in which democracy is seen, it is seen, it is different, it is not good and it is not positive, but it is a democratic process in which we parliamentary representatives will decide the fate of Croatia, so I urge you once again not to talk about the random state because a lot of blood has been spilled while you were in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for this Croatian state through the Homeland War. This is an insult to people who were in the Homeland War and to future generations. Once again, Croatia is not a random state. These are now only democratic processes in which we have all different views, some equally, were not elections, anyway, Croatia is the state which in the defensive Homeland War after the 9th century came to its own free, independent Republic, led by the first Croatian president of Dr Franjo Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11915	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Zoran Milanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11916	He announced this replica like this. I mean, this is a kind of ping pong, I knew what he was going to say, but my colleague didn't even need a big school to tell people clear, understandable messages. I think I was very clear when I was talking and it's very clear what I was saying and what you're respecting didn't tell me. Therefore, do not play on low passions and instincts in people. Try to make them feel better about their passions, feelings, appeal to their senses, consciousness, conscience, not sell them this cheap hoax.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11917	Thank you very much. The next word will be taken on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS by the distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11918	Thank you, President, colleagues and colleagues. So Prime Minister Oreskovic's impeachment is essentially and formally-legal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[/Intruder President: Please calm down a bit so that colleague Vrdoljak can say what he intends to say. Here you go.]] So, Prime Minister Oreshkovic's impeachment is a formal legal impeachment of the entire government, these experimental governments and its two main coalition partners of HDZ and MOST, and it's a completely irrelevant explanation of the applicant's demands, because ultimately I find it pointless, and even untrue, and someone will think it's funny, but it's actually quite unfortunate. Representatives of the Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats in the Croatian Parliament will vote for the recall of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We have more reasons. The first reason is the complete non-functionality of the government that has caused the paralysis of the state and absolutely all institutions at all levels from public administration to public enterprises, companies that are mostly owned by the state and even parts of the real sector that have been waiting for delayed competitions for European funds, delayed tenders not only for European funds but also for financial resources provided for in the budget and budget of the Republic of Croatia. Another reason is the fact that recalling such a catastrophicly inefficient government is the logical task of every person in a policy that cares about defense of the dignity of the work we do. This is not the way to defend state interests, and I mean when I say state interests to the interests of citizens and to subdue your own particular party or personal interests without making an account for it to the citizens. The third reason is a difficult violation of the reputation of the Republic of Croatia independently, is that we are talking about a shower of investors when we tried to issue bonds or let's say a large number of signatures including Nobel laureates criticising the culture minister's policy which is part of this impeachment. The fourth reason, we heard the reform government from all of you. And the fact that none of the pompous announced reforms were made or even prepared. Not even prepared. We have working groups, commissions. A strong argument to buy time and show incompetence. So reform neither prepares nor implements, and the main reform that has been launched has been halted, prevented for blindly ideological reasons stopped. We had tens of thousands of people looking for Secretary Schuster's resignation. We are voting today on this resignation, we are resolving Minister Schuster today, we are also resolving Minister Hasanbegovic. Today, we also resolve Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Karamark as a man who has proved to be in an eclectic conflict of interest, which is even less important. It is important to bear political responsibility, if he intends to deal with politics, that the political elites in 2016 must show the citizens how to be allowed and how not to behave. And then, in all this, the collateral sacrifice is also Prime Minister Oreskovic, as was the collateral prime minister. The fifth reason I don't think it's even the least important, now I've mentioned it, and that's 70% of Croatian citizens want new elections. I don't remember when in history of the independence of the Republic of Croatia that percentage of citizens wanted to take right into their own hands to correct the political system and to say experiments enough, politics enough. Give us the right to choose. Tell me the moment in the last 25 years, there have been difficult times when 70% of the citizens have said give us the elections and then six months later. It didn't exist because the experiments, the populism, the extremism that appeared must be punished by the citizens. So, this impeachment gives us a chance for the curricular reform to move on. With this impeachment, we give the opportunity to return to the focus of politics and the public of Croatia industry, exports, employment, investment. With this impeachment we give the chance to forget and throw into history, we will hardly forget the last 8 months of embarrassing political elites because we were exclusively on the cover with political turmoil. Where are the results? Where are the reforms? Where are the cheap days of campaign promises? And if there's anything we need to learn all of us sitting here, then we can no longer make easy promises in campaigns, that it's not good to introduce experiments that block the state and cost us tens of billions of kuna not only from the base of bond interest but also from unrealised competitions and chances of withdrawing money from the EU. Because experiments eventually end up on the back of citizens, not in these chairs. With this impeachment, we confirm that the experiments are no longer allowed to happen again. And we confirm that the populists must be punished. And we're giving this impeachment a chance to restore optimism. We have 2.5% GDP growth in the first quarter, we have a growth in the industry, we have export growth, we have a controlled public debt that is now stabilised, we have a deficit at 3%, you get all of that. Do we have the right then to push Croatian citizens into pessimism? We don't. This impeachment gives us a chance for optimism. And such paralysis by institutions, such political amateurism and political populism and extremism where even members of Parliament, parliamentary deputies declare themselves not to be politicians. People are, are politicians, and you are the most responsible, we sitting here, for what kind of image political elites in Croatia are. And don't distance yourself from it, take responsibility for it. And amateurism, populism, extremism that has emerged, and the experiments that you are introducing, which cost us dearly, must be excluded from this Parliament, go to elections and must be excluded from the future government. For the country, for Croatia I would never wish for anyone, no country, especially my country, such a failed government. And the task of all of us in the period ahead is that we primarily try to make our own little contribution as individuals to start restoring the dignity of politics. And return the trust of our citizens to politics and institutions. Because I'm sure they deserve it. Well, at the very end of the line, their wish, and 70% of the citizens say, go to the polls, say return trust in themselves. This is what we will do when we call off this government and, as soon as possible, we will go to the new parliamentary elections, and according to this, the HNS club will vote for the impeachment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11919	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Lovrinović, Martinović and Misic will take the floor with the honourable representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11920	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me say a few thoughts in front of our newly founded club on the occasion of this point on the recall of Prime Minister Oreshkovic. I first want to give up, to commend Prime Minister Oreshkovic's willingness, who today said he came here to defend his honour and his responsibility and I think it's only to greet him. And so everyone should behave by taking responsibility for what he did or what he did. At first, I want to remind you when the government elected in this House on 22 January this year, I am the only one of the Most, of 15 representatives or representatives of the Most, did not trust this government and the question arises why? Many of them later saw me from the Patriot coalition but also from the MOST under the eye, suspiciously, and my credit to them was reduced. So the question is, why? I was already convinced by the presentation that was presented here on the foundations of economic policy which will be led that it is wrong, that this concept is wrong and since there is a Prime Minister Oreshkovic among us and who has called for us to ask him questions I would ask him whose economic policy programme you have actually represented so far? It wasn't a programme of economic policy or MOST and certainly not the HDZ. So, please respond today to whose economic policy programme you have represented. That model of economic policy that I recognized back then that you presented here, and a month ago, you re-developed here, it's basically the same as the one from 23 years ago. It comes down to restrictions, using only fiscal policy, selling state property to reduce public debt and all cutting and reducing workers' rights and jeopardising their position. Furthermore, it is unacceptable to advertise state property at telephone sessions. It can only be decided by this Assembly, which is strategically, which is of particular interest, and what needs to be resolved by the state. We're not against selling certain parts of state property and it's supposed to be done but it can't be done the way it was done or even through a phone session. In this context, I would like to highlight the latest example when a part of KONČAR was sold for about 360 million kuna and here I would point out that the public debt is being patched up, to reduce by 360 million kuna. And a few days ago in this House I also cited the example of Croatia's insurance sold by this government before and the state budget lost 3 billion and 400 million kuna. So nine KONČARs are lost. I'm also asking you why you haven't used other ways of reducing public debt, for example. By refinanced the kuna part of a public debt of about 160 billion kuna, where my estimates could save at a lower interest rate of about 5 billion kuna. Can it be concluded or assumed that this was not what you wanted to reduce bank profits? Furthermore, the proposal has also been made that from the capital account of the Croatian National Bank where there are around 17 billion kunas and, according to the precise and let us say a sensitive calculation that everything is stable where it can be transferred by Parliament's decision of around 7 billion kuna, you have never taken this seriously into consideration and your Government. Is that what your departure with the governor in Kitzbühel affected, please respond to that. The national economy is not run as a firm, although it has fundamental principles that are similar or similar. It takes much more, much greater breadth to run a national economy and economy. I would no longer talk about the economic background and criticism of the government's work so far because I repeat it... since 22 January and I am the only one here who votes against, but I would now look back on something else. These days some call you a random prime minister, some tell you that you are a collateral victim, some today buy points all part of a political strategy, competition, and of course as people and MPs we can understand. There are some things we can't do, and the way we do it, we can't justify it. But in that sense, the question arises, and I'm telling you by chance because I don't think so, but it means what happened here, why is someone saying that you're a random prime minister? Now, you see that not only would this salvaa turn to you and another man is very responsible for this situation, and that is your second vice president, Mr. Bozo Petrov. I want the public here who is now looking to introduce us to a few details. On December 22nd, when we completed talks with the Patriot coalition and the Croatian coalition, Croatia was growing to decide which side we were going to take, we reached the Most when I was part of the Most and the three of us, that Mr Karamarko and Mr Milanovic could not be prime ministers. And we did it well. However, we've been creating a way for you all along to be prime minister, as a young man with choices and legitimacy, a new person, a face on a political scene, and you said that day I won't, I don't want to see whether because of fear, ignorance or something else I don't know, and that's what you did, and I personally told you, you opened one process that led to this today. So we told you that from that moment on you would be held accountable for what was happening because we were preparing you for the prime minister and you retired and in 24 hours a warrant came from Pantovic that you had to propose the mandate and then Mr. Oreshkovic came. But how do we solve this current situation now? Our position is that all three should go, so also Mr. Karamarko, who has already said he is leaving, and Mr. Oreshkovic, as well as Mr. Bozo Petrov, who said he is willing to leave if it is necessary to protect national interests, and I see this day just as I do today. In that context, we need common sense here. I'm not here and I'm not using this pay phone to deal with someone because I'm stuck at the level of correctness of academics and I'm not going any further. These are serious questions, this country needs a serious government, and why can't this survive? Hypothetically, if this government survived without Mr. Karamark, it would be a blockade because we see that it doesn't work. Mr. Oreshkovic does not have the political support of the party that practically brought him in, that is, above all, the Patriot coalition, or HDZ. So political, sociologically speaking, these are simply things that can't work. So if we are aware of this very moment where we are at a great loss and costs for this national economy because reforms are not being implemented, nor is this thin growth of GDP the result of the work of this government, and certainly not this one before. He's random, he's a verse, he's happened because people do their jobs, workers do, entrepreneurs show that they can function I won't say completely without the government but means good work. I want to say one more thing, he also happened because in the "Franak case" which one significant part of the money means he returned to the people in their current accounts, the jury accounts, the current accounts, and one part was poured into personal consumption. So we have to be realistic, we don't need to grab everyone who wants to, and that's to justify ourselves, or attribute ourselves to ourselves. The reforms that were promised, which were needed, were not undertaken here. I personally regret it, that was why the three of us came out of this because we see that reforms do not happen, especially those of the most important and only new people, but above all, with the meaning of repeating the key objectives that are credible, competent above all, can turn Croatia, so we need an economic policy of turning from this policy to turn these negative economic, negative economic environments on the path of prosperity and development. Here I thank you for listening to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11921	Thank you. Here's a replica. Dear Representative Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11922	Dear fellow Lovrinović, we were recently part of the East Club and participated in the same meetings and in the same talks. And yes, it is true that Mr. Petrov had an offer to become Croatian Prime Minister on both sides and on the other hand, and it is true that he refused. He refused because he felt a high level of responsibility, which he is willing to accept that for some positions there are even better people than he is. And I think that's what it says about Mr. Petrov's high quality. To connect, we have recently had the Prime Minister's invitation to leave the government's two vice-presidents. Mr. Petrov, who has no guilt on himself, accepted it the same day and was ready to leave that position. There are too few people in this Croatian Parliament and on the Croatian political scene who are willing to admit that they have someone better than them, there are too few people on the Croatian political scene who are not so hungry as to accept each offer. And that's true what you said and I congratulate Mr. Petrov on that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11923	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11924	Dear fellow Simic, I repeat, I did not come here today to deal with Mr Petrov because the topic of the agenda is something else. But I also appreciate his willingness. However, now that the conditions have been met, I must say I did not expect Mr Karamarko to withdraw and offer his resignation. Bad political assessment. However, if the Prime Minister himself said that we could both do something and everything else now turns out that the only one is not ready for Mr. Petrov to step down and I met him as a man who really kept talking and said that he would never break his word. Here's a chance to do it today... No, like this, right away, it is true that fellow Ambrusec does not belong in the same basket and I am giving Mr. Petrov public recognition here in this case for helping to shed light on some of the things about INA MOL, which has contributed to Mr. Karamark's resignation, which is what I publicly admit to you, or I give you a confession, but whoever thinks that the government together with you is going to be any effective and that's wrong. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11925	The next debate is on behalf of the PGS IDS club, the distinguished representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11926	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will be brief and concise. At the very beginning, we said that this experiment could hardly survive, so in the introduction, clearly I say the IDS Representatives' Club will vote in favour of the prime minister's impeachment. We can list a lot of reasons. We can talk about the damaged image of the Republic of Croatia abroad, we can talk about the reduction of credit ratings, the mistrust of investors, the mistrust of lenders. We can talk about the state and status of our national minorities that we are particularly sensitive to in Istria, we can talk about the state of human rights, we can talk about relations in culture, about relations with civil society associations. And I can still count on it like that. However, the basic question is what is the main role, i.e. what business of the executive, was the state, regional or local level. The executive's job is to make decisions. It's a basic job of the government, of a mayor, of a minister or of a municipal chief. He must make decisions, or government as a collective body must make decisions. How the government will make decisions, preferably good and positive, about being discussed, which is good, which is less good or bad. If there is absolutely no communication within that body, communication is impossible. On what basis will the government communicate? Based on the fact that a vice president calls a press conference at 4:00 a.m., he's texting the other two who are then uplinking at 5:00 or 6:00 p.m., and that's how they communicate through the media. Well, it's impossible to function like that. This government simply cannot function and it was in the beginning relatively clear. Having a political government with a technical prime minister, if maybe the overall government were technical, if it were some consensus of the Parliament, maybe it could work. But having a government that is composed of two and more parties but two key coalitions and having a prime minister who has no political weight, which the ministers in principle do not listen to but listen to their bosses, so it was clear in the beginning that it was only a matter of days when it just came to an end. And now we're at the end. Here's Mr. Oreshkovic himself said, "It's not possible to communicate." And that needs to be stopped. This agony needs to be stopped one way or another. The best way to do this is to just vote for the impeachment of the Prime Minister, that's the end of this government, and let's get it over with because the citizens expect it from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11927	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HSS Club, HDS, the distinguished representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11928	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We speak here on behalf of the HSS and on behalf of the HDS. We've heard a lot of good words here today, but we've heard political stories, so we've heard how some people know what they're thinking and what they're doing. The reason we're here today is too important and we'd have to concentrate on that very reason. However, we must come from the fact that the situation in Croatian society and in Croatia is extremely bad. It's bad in the political sense. It's bad in ideological terms. It is bad in economic terms and that a fact that cannot be avoided is that we live in divisions that accept dramatic dimensions. I told Mr. Oreshkovic on two occasions that both the best intentions and the best reforms implemented will not succeed without political stability. Efforts to achieve political stability are not sufficient to take care of technical solutions exclusively. We are a society where people think in a certain way thanks to psychology that is created by no accident and that is psychology not tolerance and aggression. And in such circumstances Croatia lives in fear and unrest. We are indeed in fear and disquieting. It looks ugly to us here today and imagine what it looks like to the ugly people who patch up the ending, who are blocked, who are overindebted, who can't educate their own children and then every detail in this society takes on huge political dimensions. Of course, then all aggression is channeled towards politicians and we didn't want us to be politicians here. We wanted or didn't want the most significant political institution in this country is the government. For that condition, gentlemen, I am not amnesting anyone. Each of our spoken words is very important when it comes to creating either negative or positive climates. However, I said that the government is a first-rate political institution with its experts but that if it is generated from the government, it generates divisions if no tolerance is generated from the Government, if it is spoken from the Government about our ministers and their ministers, if our side or other side is spoken from the Government, then it is a government that has no perspective and cannot succeed. I don't want to tell anyone here to amnesty from a situation like this, but definitely the government is here who's the most responsible. The government, in my deep conviction, instead of dealing with serious matters, was generated not only by conflicts but also by affairs. I'm not against the discovery of any affair, any incompetence to protect anyone but to create a picture from the government in public of an absolutely corrupt state, an absolutely corrupt people, an absolutely corrupt party and individuals, that's not good, gentlemen. It must be expected to break then. And that's bad. And that's why I don't think this government has fully fulfilled its function. Whether it's conditioned by a misunderstanding or something else, it's totally irrelevant now. The other thing that scares this people is indifference. I am not an economist, however, when it happened that the first moves were going to be sold, it was clear to me that this could not endure not only because of these affairs but because of the way it was presented and because of our experience with sales. I'm not an economist to judge what to sell or not but not transparency and phone sessions to sell it, in phone sessions and deciding what to sell it is unacceptable. I will only, Mr. Oreshkovic, make it more clear to you how much fear there is in this people when it comes to sales or sales, only to give you a few, one examples. The other day in a daily newspaper there was an article by Mr. Lovrinović that mentioned it but I will now tell you specific figures. In 2000, the Split Bank sold it to the Italian group UNICREDIT for 48m and 100,000 euros. In 2001, the first year's profit was 31 million and 400 thousand euros in the first year. Immediately in 2002, the Italians sold it to Germany to HVB, I think it's called for 130m euros, after a year and in 2006 the Germans sold to the French who are still the owners of what you think for how much, for a billion euros, for a billion euros in one bank. So can you imagine the fear in us when we know it and now we're seeing almost the terrible images of that time when we were doing it, when it was happening. And that any such decision brings us into the position of absolute fear. That fear generates our uncertainty, and our uncertainty generates intolerance, and intolerance generates aggression. And don't worry about it, don't worry about not talking about how open jobs are and what will be sold by Končar whether he's justified or not, what the money will be for, how much we're going to hire people in Slavonia, not how much we're going to sell in Slavonia. Gentlemen, this has caused me some dissatisfaction that I can't overcome in a way that was good. And not just dissatisfaction, deeply rationally I think it was bad. Opening the affair is necessary again, but it is a second-rate problem that institutions must deal with rather than put on a tray for personal promotions. It's no problem to find anyone's fault and find who did it. Just using people's dissatisfaction and creating an atmosphere of lynches is just a question of when it will come to us and when, because of our assessment, something political damage is the victim of that. I'll vote, this club will vote for your recall. However, I wouldn't mind being behind it no matter who it was and what was going on sitting together and saying, let's see what we can do together. If we ever needed a union, that's now. Yeah, yeah. Laugh, laugh. It's this laugh and irresponsibility and putting yourself in a moral position of untouchableness that has put you in a position to laugh. He's not laughing at me right now, you know, and you laugh at it. Enjoy that position, just enjoy it. Enjoy, but don't forget, don't be rude. ... You can't be rude as I speak. [[You can't hear it.]] But I won't let you act like one! [[Do not communicate. Do not communicate with each other.]] You can't. Finally, the imbalance you were looking for at the very beginning in which you have six key ministries of blackmail has led to people not being able to take it anymore, you know you have to make sure that no fool in this country, no one's a fool in this country. Good economists have calculated how many of these, of these six ministries you can share through support and the like. We'll be dealing with health care, social welfare, and the like of everyone else. Gentlemen, I wish you well, and I want you to think about it. Doesn't mean you can't be on the team together, finally on a team that can run this government, a new government. But the new government must come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11929	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the MOST club, the distinguished representative Miroslav Šimic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11930	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, above all the respected Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Oreshkovic. The decision on your fate as Prime Minister has obviously been made in advance. And today I guess there's no point in convincing MPs who are blindly clinging to party disciplines to vote differently. And that's why my address on behalf of the club will be directed primarily to you personally. Today, some people may have arranged for you one of the hard days of your life. They'll say a lot about your way of working, you'll prove yourself to be an honorable man to defend against all these plantings. Today there will be things said, some things that stand, some things that don't stand. There's one truth that we, too, want to point out in front of the club. The truth is that those who now call you in an extremely incorrect manner have called upon you after the elections to this place for only one reason to come to power through you. Tomislav Karamarko was neither acceptable to us nor to the public for the prime minister's post. The Croatian Democratic Union, as well as the other side, did not win the election. She lost her election to the citizens. We have sought a solution in which their politically lost position will not be unfairly rewarded by a place that did not deserve the post of prime minister in the elections. So they brought you here to be their ticket to power. They felt that you would be inconsistencies in their political games and that beyond you and MOST everything would still come into their hands. When it turns out that's not how you're now being torn down and destroyed by this government. And why is that? The answer is only one, because now, in some other way, they want what they want from the beginning and they want the naked power, without the pebbles in the shoe. They want power again and they just want power and they don't care about anything else. Believe me, nothing. 12 Most MPs today will give them exactly that, nothing. And for overruling the new government from us 12 will get guaranteed nothing. It's probably hard to understand that they've met 12 people who can recruit as much as they want, and the result will always be just one and only nothing. We did not want to and do not want to be politicians of old Croatian political habits. We've gone into politics as human beings, and we're going to be human. And we personally view you as such in this relationship. Anywhere and whenever we trust you and you, we can always look into our eyes, and that's what's most valuable. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Ministers and Members of the National Council of Most, thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11931	Thank you. We have one replica, a distinguished representative... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Stipe Petrina. Here you go, Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11932	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask Mr. Simic, Mr. Simicu finely your words today look here in the Assembly's pay phone when the end is certain. But you tell me from all the strong 12 MPs of MOST do you know any case in the world in history that a person who has been in charge of a country for two hours has come to the head, but only two hours, Mr. Simic and the gentlemen of the 12 big ones didn't even know anything. You just didn't even know that man's résumé. Me, Mr. Bulj, you are suffering from a strange diagnosis, so refrain from commenting when I speak, so today you are defending Mr. Oreshkovic. I personally did not vote for him, today I will vote in favour of impeachment, but it is hypocritical for me that you call each other to power, especially you, Mr. Simic, who was on that side and by the loss of that power, you simply pre-reform yourself to another power. That's one thing. And the other thing, tell me, if you pick a man who's the most important position in society in two hours, believe me, I can't buy a suit in two hours, what kind of principle is that, what kind of morality is that? You insisted on those 7 ministry clauses, and he was always an accent for you at the Ministry of Police, Secret Service. Why? What do you wonder? He who plants pumpkins with the devil till noon, at noon, these pumpkins are smashed into his head. You're in that situation today, Mr. Shimic. Let's do it boyly, get to a new election, then come to both of us, what a bunch of creeps.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11933	My colleague, Petrina, I would ask you nicely to use in our address a way suitable for this House. This way of yours is not appropriate to this House. Anything can be said, but the question is the way it's said. Here you are, to be answered by the esteemed representative Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11934	My esteemed colleague, Petrina, may say that I... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11935	Do not do what you do, I warn you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I warn you again and forbid you to speak! You've been banned from speaking all day. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11938	I'll get out but you can't forbid me to come back. I'll get out, I'll get out again. But you business people don't have the authority to forbid me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11939	I've made it very clear to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11940	I'm going out and I'm going back.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11941	Here, fellow Simic, forgive me for this tasteless I would say part of this session Thank you very much. [[Intruder: He gave up.]] The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ club, a respected representative of Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11942	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the ministers of the past days have witnessed an unprecedented political instability in the country. The instability that is an obstacle to everything that we as the ruling majority and this government promised Croatian citizens at the beginning of the term of office. The instability that prevents us from fulfilling the promises we made. Ladies and gentlemen Croatia no longer has time, Croatian citizens are watching the instability of this government with less and less patience. It is the final moment, regardless of which page we fail to show responsibility and complexity as politicians in order to lead Croatia through economic growth and progress at all levels. I also remind you that we are beginning our tourist season as well as our close assessment of the Croatian credit rating. We ask ourselves today in this assembly do we really want to write about Croatia as a country case or a country that is unable to take care of itself? Dear colleagues now only stability can help us and here I mean not only this economic stability that many today have spoken of but also that political stability. Because there's no stability without each other. I am personally sorry that the current combination of professional and political governments has not produced the desired results, but we must look the truth in the eye and admit that this is no longer the case. On behalf of HDZ, I thank Mr. Oreshkovic for his efforts and work in the Croatian government over the past period. This way, I urge him once again to be discreet and politically responsible. However, Mr. Oreshkovic missed your co-operation with HDZ, the HDZ club as the leading party in the Croatian Parliament and the Patriot coalition. HDZ is not and cannot accept this because we have the highest responsibility for Croatian citizens and Croatian voters per mandate. Furthermore, we believe that Prime Minister Oreskovic did not manage as we expected and that he was not sufficiently concerned with vital political issues, the economy and social issues, opening new jobs, stopping young people from evicting and other jobs of priority interest to the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens. Prime Minister, Croatia is not a corporation, but corporate interests often do not match the interests of the state. The frequent phone sessions, including the one on the sale of state property on which Croatian citizens are particularly sensitized, such as the cancellation of the cabinet session because of a meeting at the Security Intelligence Agency, have shown that you do not fully understand our parliamentary political system. All these are the reasons why Prime Minister Oreskovic is held accountable and why we call on him to step down from his position today. Mr. Oreshkovic recently said this is a battle for Croatia, we fully agree, but this is not how he fights for Croatia. That's why we're asking you to stand down. This is not a battle for individual interests from which individuals will profit, but the Croatian state and all its citizens. Which is agreed by the president of the republic, who is urging the government crisis to end as soon as possible. All sides are therefore complex in order to end this political crisis as soon as possible, and that is why we will propose Mr Maric as the new candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. As a party, we stand entirely behind Mr. Maric and his expertise. We are convinced that it is he who should take the post of prime minister of our country that because of his understanding of Croatian political circumstances, the overall political context in the Republic of Croatia but also because of his experience in the public and private sectors. I am convinced that there are most MPs in the House who are responsible and willing to support the Government of the Right Centre in order to transform our country from the beginning of Europe into a stable and prosperous state, a country fought by Croatian defenders, a country desirable to foreign tourists, foreign investors and domestic investors, and what is most important to the state of contented, materially secure and happy residents. On this occasion, I call once again on all of you in this assembly of democratically elected MPs and MPs to act on your conscience, convinced that your decision today will be in the best interest of the Republic of Croatia and of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11943	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11944	Thank you very much, President. I'd just like a comment from a fellow Milosevic. So, we heard very similar when you ran for office and a colleague of Oreshkovic's. The experience of business, knowledge, everything you need, the willingness to protect and the dignity of a man personally but what is most interesting to me, so I want a comment, do you remember a country in the world including Croatia that at the same time has its prime minister who is here now, he is a valid prime minister and prime minister. Well, I'm distracting you a little bit to be careful in your procedures so you can appoint a prime minister as soon as we don't have a prime minister. Because this is a little disabling of institutions, people, no matter how much you argued with them and for what reason. And that's why I'm drawing attention that we are representing the people who put us here and chose us and to watch what we say about each other here, the way we talk and how we run that policy because it led us to the fact that we are the country where foreign media says we have the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister at the same time. It's just not natural. Well, here's your comment on the situation, Prime Minister and Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11945	Thank you. The honourable representative, Domagoj Milosevic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11946	Dear colleague Vrdoljak, I said and I can also send you my speech on the candidate's e-mail. That's a big difference. I told the candidate about the mandate. As far as I'm concerned, I've been working particularly hard for the past five years in this House, for a year in the Croatian government, I've never personally attacked anyone. So I try as hard as possible even in the worst fights and there were them in this Croatian assembly and between me personally and some colleagues on the left, I never personally attacked anyone. I always try to talk about processes, arguments, results or bad results, what could, should or should not have happened. I hope you're welcome to let anyone get up and say that I've ever personally offended him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11947	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU and the Independent List of Stipe Petrina, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11948	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister. I am not personally on behalf of the club in particular and we are not particularly impressed by the demand for recall and arguments that stand in demand, nor are we particularly impressed with the defence of Prime Minister Oreshkovic. But this is a picture of the Croatian absurdity that ministers who did not know about the existence of Mr. Oreshkovic remained loyal to him and on the government's trail, on the government's programme and those who knew him and brought him back. Not a single newspaper fellow Milosevic said the day Prime Minister Oreshkovic was elected, his former Prime Minister said the same thing that Mr Milosevic said today that it is not equal to running a state and a corporation. And that's really true only here obviously matures six months later. And let's be honest with the citizens of Croatia, this is where we play the game from the Quiscoteque, throw out the intruder. Do you agree to play this game, no one else? Of course there are people here who, if I could, if I were to be able to raise my hand tomorrow or I would be restrained and believe that I can offer the Republic of Croatia something because they are refreshing on the political scene of the Republic of Croatia. But here they will experience the same fate of their prime minister. You know, it's a big dilemma of a small party whether it will be held back or voted in favour of the prime minister's recall. We didn't vote for the prime minister, we didn't even vote for this government, it's not our government. We were in negotiations with the Most. And if there was such a dilemma this morning, this morning, both at my place and at our club completely disappeared. This morning during a debate on health laws. Dear colleagues and colleagues from MOST, you cannot support the Government's proposal or a minister who is opposed to the interests of the Croatian citizen who takes 400 million kuna additional for additional health insurance from pockets. You can't not see the process that's happening to you in front of your eyes to get out of this... Mr. President. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't not see a process that happens to break up a public insurance company and that all the measures that are proposed go to the benefit of private insurance companies. [[The President's intrusion: Just keep going and I'm asking for silence in the hall.]] Only the public insurance company assured you that all poor categories, all old and powerless and sick, have the right to access health care. You can't not recognize it. So today, definitely the Croatian party of pensioners and the Independent List of Stipe Petrina made the final decision, this adventure, this experiment must stop and we will vote for the recall of the prime minister, which means an impeachment for the fall of the entire government. I wouldn't want to lose touch with some honest people we've had our differences with and worked with, and I think I'll bear good memories. What they first came into politics, which they may not have managed, which they don't know what games they're playing here, doesn't amnest them for the mistakes they're making. Therefore, my dears, let this be over as soon as possible. And please, please, dear colleagues and colleagues, one term that has been put into circulation by Mr Bandic, let's stop using it, wood, bricks, blocks, we as parliamentary representatives who each of us has been elected by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to discuss and discuss the majority, minorities, coalitions and everything else. Let us not use such harsh words as overlying human relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11949	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representatives of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11950	Your Honor, Mr. Hrelja. You are only now in this debate calling for the decision you made this morning to prepare for the next early elections. That's what you said, that's not true. You are otherwise, regardless of what you are saying now that we are inexperienced, we are not inexperienced but are something new that appeared on the political scene of Croatia that many have not been prepared for. In the way we're consistent, we've gotten into this and stayed consistent to the end as we are today 12 who support our prime minister. Mr. Census of Citizens you're deluding, what today was the story of the laws we've been talking about is that the emergency reform is going on that any patient who could have received an ambulance in time and those who aren't going to be done in an out-of-patient emergency. Raising from two to three thousand participations goes to the heart of the insurance company because so much more will have to be paid by them and participated for patients who do not have additional health insurance in the overall account. This is your early election prep. You're already settling in and this way saying that you made a decision this morning, you're just telling your citizens. But you've already been in all combinations with both HDZ and SDP. Obviously, you're doing this in some way now and you don't have to go back to these laws that you made a decision this morning, you made a decision a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11951	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11952	Yes, you're right. We have a lot of experience in politics and parliamentary work that is why we are also invited to assess certain situations and certain relationships but you can interpret this however you want Mrs Strenja-Linić but one thing is interesting. To defend the minister and the law, or the minister behind the law that announced the violation of the law, that he would force private insurance companies to ensure at the same price both the elderly and the sick. He can't do that to people, so let's be smart. I guess that's all we need to know about law enforcement. And so today, there was a strange story in the debate. Mr Milinovic forgot to say that he respected a number of requests, counterproposals, etc. in the public debate, etc. And that's why it's a public debate, and I can't have this kind of thing that's against the public interest being brought forward by the urgent procedure of Mrs. Strenja-Linić and you can be the refreshment of this political scene, you can think it but you're not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11953	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the Bandic Milan 365, Party of Labour and Solidarity, Block of Retired Together and Independent Representatives Ermina Lekaj Prljaska, Vladimir Bilek and Mirko Raskovic, whose name will be spoken by the distinguished representative Milivo Spik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11954	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Prime Minister. At first, it should be said that our club will vote in favour of the prime minister's impeachment and I will give a brief explanation why it is so. It's no secret here that I was one of those who suspected the success and efficiency of this government. Unfortunately, I was right, but I'd prefer it if it wasn't, but here's what we have. In the 26th year of Croatia's democracy, this is the first time that the prime minister's impeachment is sought. Some will view it in a negative context and I am looking at it in a very positive context. This is the first time that a ruling majority, after six months of public and loud and clear, says no, what we are doing is not a good thing to try to do it in one better and one more quality way, is not because someone can get to the authorities only for the sake of power but because we see whether in the context of 151 elected parliamentary representatives from our citizens and 6 months ago we can find a configuration that will bring out a new government that will work in the interests of all citizens, not HDZ, not the SDP, not the HNS, not the Buz or any other political options, but in the interests of citizens alone. If it is not possible to do so after this impeachment, and even if our club does not believe that this new government that we will be able to discuss after the impeachment will not be at the level of this task, or we will assess that it will not be, then make sure that the good part on my right will be for the early parliamentary elections to go as soon as possible. And it's no wonder. What's going on with us isn't in the world. We have our Italian neighbors changing their government on average every year and a half. What's been going on dramatically? What would we give if we were at the level of their economy? But what's going on with us? I can't speak personally against any single person right now either for one single person from MOST or for our government to say something wrong. We don't know each other personally. In a political sense, we cannot but notice that we have a Prime Minister who came as he came, so I don't need to repeat my colleagues now, but it is obvious that there was a lack of compatibility with his proposal, and also in the functioning of the government itself, which led to our Prime Minister telling Croatia for the first time to lose the trust of the one who proposed here in front of the Parliament and the majority who chose him. I must admit that my colleague Oreshkovic's reaction is a surprise to me. It was kind of logical for me to think that it was a person whose advantage at these times is that he is not Croatia because he behaves according to other standards. In this regard, however, counterpart Oreshkovic took some of the ways of thinking and behavior right here as it is in Croatia and what we would like to get rid of. So, the most logical thing for me is that if you lose the trust of whoever suggested you, so whose hands you depend on, the opposition was never an alternative, you just honorably come in front of those people and you say I'm resigning. There is no need for bullying, and I am also surprised that colleague Oreshkovic asked to come before us today to defend himself. In principle, we heard nothing that would be new and nothing that was said here today was or was not of any substance that could not have been said at a press conference or anywhere. I think even in the Republic of Croatia a lot more people follow when someone calls a press conference than the leaders of parliamentary options but the work of this Parliament. But here is the Prime Minister's choice to say today, and I believe that at some point, because this is already slowly repeating and going over, depending on how we look at masochism or sadism because it is evident, it is evident that in this House the Prime Minister has no support and will not have it. And I still give 'naive or not 'cause I don't see what I expect the Prime Minister won't allow it to come to a vote, it's clear what the outcome will be, but that he will come out here honorably and say he's resigning. Of course, in these six months, I'd be more pleased if things had happened, but they didn't happen. Well, that's how we know the information, so we've been involved in it ourselves, which doesn't have to be a criminal prime minister again because he has certain people working in his office, he has his assistants. But it is unusual and illogical to say blocked by 340 thousand with their presidents failed to reach the Prime Minister, they failed to find a common language on how to solve problems. And you remember all of us here in the election campaign we mentioned these people very much and the need to do something for them. What has the government done in six months and what has the prime minister done in six months? Nothing. Some here say there is no dilemma at all why it should try to put together a new government after the recall, because that's how 70% of our citizens want elections. Yes, but there is a clear and open word here, and I will now say for the first time we have in Croatia companies, agencies, however you want to do research and public opinion. And there are those where depending on what you want, you can buy a poll. She's been offered to us, too. Well then you can get the results of these polls even at some point that even 120% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia want new elections. And what do our citizens actually want? So they don't care who in this assembly is of 151 persons or even hypothetically who the Prime Minister is or who the ministers are. What do our people want? What I've already said here, I don't know how many times. Those 320 thousand blocked want to be created legal frameworks so they can get out of that blockade. No one from the whim came into that position but most often that a family member lost his job and people were unhappy not with their guilt. If we helped these people, we said. We didn't help. The million and 400 thousand insurance companies, or how do we like to call them popular workers what they want? Just one thing. A decent salary so I can feed my family and have one normal life. What do the pensioners want? One more sentence. Peace enough for a man's life and they don't care about anything else. And that's our job, and that's the government's job. Have we done these jobs in the past six months? We didn't. What did we do? The first one where I personally made it absolutely clear that this wasn't going to play. Showing no confidence to the boss of SOA. Believe me, I've truly naively believed that if not the same day, and the next day after the president's mistrust to the SOA chief, the same thing will happen to the Prime Minister. That makes absolutely sense to me, because this person enjoys to function must enjoy the trust of both people. If he lost her to one, and the relation of the Prime Minister and the president should be good the same second it should be solved in the only logical way and not. Why not? We saw at the end after a few months, and that's definitely the thing that led to a separation of beliefs and ruling options because there was doubt that they were whose intentions. Because of course I want to believe and I still believe and I will believe whatever happens, that all 151 here are represented, and even all the members of the government want only the best for their citizens. But we are all witnessing that at no time do we implement some of our own personal policies here, but we are implementing the policy of those who chose us here for whom we are here and in whose name we do things here. And that's what a number of illogical things happened in that game, which is that the political option MOST for which we have to be aware here no matter how we think about it is a product or a result or whatever you want or the consequences of bad policies, let's be open to both SDP and HDZ. So, the citizens weren't happy with some things no matter who they were. And they said let's do something new. The Most appeared, a living wall appeared, perhaps tomorrow someone third, and given these experiences in the previous six months, perhaps no one ever did. So what do you do now? Clearly, it is clear, and if we are to be realistically thinking that no one should run from the election. But the election isn't the first option because the elections if we're going to trust the polls again, but there are also those polls that do it very well in the last decade or two that we can see that the number of MPs in individual options might be changed, but that relations would be the same again. Now do we need that? I don't think you should, but I'm saying you don't need to run again. And what is necessary at this point is to gather all those people who are ready tomorrow after today to support the person who will propose a relative election winner in an attempt to form a new government, and then potentially and new parliamentary majority, and to try to do what we are here for, not to be nice, smart, but to do something for those who have given us their trust. And they didn't give us their trust that we here would think of personal interests, personal interests, personal sinacurams, but to do something on behalf of them. So, at this point, I can't do anything else but end up with a very simple invitation respected and respected Prime Minister until the end of this debate, at any point you can come here, do what the Croatian public expects you to do, and what political actors at this point expect to thank you for your confidence. I believe you wanted to do all the best, but here's the thing that just in this configuration we couldn't do it. Everyone, however it ends, I want, of course, every good in their further activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11955	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Maria Klobučić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11956	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the Prime Minister and present ministers, fellow MPs and MPs. After a speech like this, I think we should all remember how you got into this honorary home. So I'm sure your large number of voters gave you a vote just because of the list you were on. In the meantime, the honor took on some new dimension, so you guys turned into another club. I doubt your voters or a large number of your voters would trust you on that same list. With this speech in the last 15 minutes, we could see that you were the only reason why you were calling off the president of the SOA. I'm glad you pointed that out as the only reason, I hope the others... They don't have the same attitude. [[You don't understand.]] So it would be very sad if that was the only reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11957	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of Milivo Spik will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11958	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you've just given your colleague an answer to my question, and it's simple, so I'll just repeat it. You've obviously entered a game, a game where you don't know the rules very well, and you're asking yourself some questions that practically don't have any logical consequences. You obviously don't understand that the pre-election coalition with the formation of representatives' clubs doesn't really have much to do with it because being in a representative club and or in a representative's club b is just a technicality for which some benefits can be used. Not to anyone's harm, but simply to be able to, and even now, come out on behalf of the MPs' club and say what I said. about at no time does it mean that an individual has changed how someone likes to say a uniform or something like that, although I don't have to talk to my colleagues in the Patriot coalition and the club where I am knows exactly who I am and what I am and how and how I entered the Croatian Parliament. Finally, like all of us, 151 MPs who are exactly the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11959	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the HRID's Club of Representatives and Independent Representative Sandor Juhasa, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Drago Prgomet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11960	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I will speak on behalf of the party of the Croatian Initiative for Dialogue since Mr. Juhas spoke on behalf of the national minorities and I believe that I will continue to express the views of members of the national minorities on this situation. But what I can say, and I believe most will agree with me, today is a sad day for Croatia. A sad day to speak not of the recall of the prime minister but of the impeachment of a failed government without the same half of the government being in the Croatian Parliament. It's almost all said in these few hours. I could really talk about what I've been saying for years to a political option that's about to happen. I could say what I was saying about the prime minister on the day he accepted the post of prime minister what would happen. Unfortunately, that's what we're witnessing today. And as someone said before me, I'm not happy or anyone in the Croatian state can be happy with what's going on. I repeat, this is a conversation about the government's impeachment, not Mr. Oreshkovic's recall. This is where Mr. Oreshkovic wanted to, with full right, defend himself as a victim. The victim is citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the victim of this society with the way this government has been complex, with the way this government has run the Croatian state for the past few months. As a doctor, I could compare that if we were in one situation of political bowel entanglement for which there is only one operation, elections. Believing that operating teams will take good care of which surgeons will do so in the future. And this situation, I'm afraid, won't fix any so-called. Prescribing Croatian politics, leading the Croatian state to who has 76 hands and not talking about politics, not talking about people, not talking about programmes is completely wrong and harmful for this country. Therefore, our party will vote in favour of impeachment, not by Mr Oreshkovic, but by impeaching the Croatian government and calling on the President of the Croatian Parliament to convene a session of the Croatian Parliament to discuss self-decommission. And I believe that the President of the Republic will also recognize this situation and do what at this point is only realistically and honestly calling new elections for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11961	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11962	Dear colleague Prgomett, you just said that someone here was the victim, our prime minister. Now I'm asking you, were you a victim, too, when we won 19 seats at the Most and when you were evicted from the Most? I wasn't satisfied at the time and I saw and then this was all going in one wrong direction if all educated people were a little extra. That's how I gave you Mr. Prime Minister's support, but your inconsistency, running around a little Karamarko little to God I saw that this government really doesn't work. And I think it's really true that it can't go any further. And you were also the victim of something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11963	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11964	Thank you very much. I'm afraid you didn't understand. It's the right of everyone and the prime minister to defend himself as a victim. This is very popular for you in Croatian politics. It's the easiest thing to be a victim of someone or something and build a political career on it. Mr. President of the Croatian Government has the right to do so, I repeat the victim of the work of this government are primarily Croatian citizens. We heard about what the results of this government are today. I'm still behind the government's impeachment because I don't think this government was doing well. Why was I against the appointment of this government I said the day the government was appointed and nothing changed in those six months. And I have no reason or need to glorify or iron over what I or many others have said soberly, rationally, well-meaningly from the position of opposition. And the citizens chose us to take care of this country, the citizens gave us the right to choose the government and thank that government. We used it six months ago to use it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11965	Thank you very much. Now we move on to individual debates. And the first one will be discussed individually by the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11966	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have before us a decision such as the Croatian Parliament had no opportunity to make in 26 years of recent Croatian history and it is only one of the precedents and one of the elements we have been meeting in the last 6 or 7 months that none of our colleagues in previous meetings have met. Let me first address the proposings who have proposed that the mistrust be expressed to the Prime Minister, Mr. Oreshkovic. From what you represented Mr. Oreshkovic as the prime minister and candidate for prime minister, as you spoke about the government's programme, about what the government will do in a very short time. From what you've written in the explanation of this request, from what you've been saying today beyond that argument, and from everything you've said in the last month about your own government that you've brought here, we can only conclude one thing you've deceived us. You said one thing, the other you thought, the third one ended up. You planted the solution in a way that you threw us out at the risk of an experiment. All of us here and the entire Croatian public were treated as test rabbits. Now it's clear to you, and we've been clear from the beginning that this experiment has no future at all. Unfortunately, you have also shown that the experiment has no future only when the story of who is protecting national interests and when the private interests have come into conflict with the public. Dear proposings, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ and the Patriot coalition do not frown on the Croatian public anymore, do not expose it to any more experiments, have the strength and honesty to admit that you have taken us astray, to give up, to give up your mandate to the people and to give him confidence that he will decide whether to continue to support what you are demanding, what you are proposing or will decide otherwise? Because you have no right to expose us to a new experiment. The prime minister left the assembly, and I welcomed him with a speech on January 21st, so I'm gonna walk him out. Today we hear from his presentation, which is primarily pre-election speech, I wish him much happiness in the election, it's obvious that he's going to be a candidate we don't know yet. We see that he's trying to prove himself a victim. It's a very curtsy commodity when you go to a political market. The citizens are emotional, they love those who are victims, they will try to do so. But the real question here is whether Prime Minister Oreshkovic is a victim or an accomplice? Did I perhaps propose members of the government here in front of this tall house, or did he? Did I say I chose them or him? Did I sign this government's work programme, run sessions, run there and coordinate that government or Prime Minister Oreshkovic? It is known who is responsible for the government's work, not only the ruling coalition, which supports it in Parliament, but also the Prime Minister. When he came, I told him perfectly well-intentioned that he was expected to be a statesman and act as such, that he was also expected to show who was the boss of the team, not to be bossed by the ministers but by him because he was responsible for their work, as well as to prevent ministers from running their private and individual policies, to share people and to deepen the divisions that had already been created in Croatian society, to try to bridge ideological differences and to be a factor of cohesion, a factor of cooperation. And give us and all our citizens hope and actually reason to believe that what they're doing for the good of all of us. And that it would come in favor of us. To all of us as citizens. I also suggested that the many reforms that were listed in the government's programme be given concrete content. What exactly happened? There's no problem with this government one man. He's the most visible and his case has come to her shooting, her problem is structural nature since day one. Tell me the government in this world that the day she sat down at her first session of one of her ministers said she was sitting in the hallway and not in the meeting hall. That was Minister Black. Who starts their work like that? The one who doesn't believe in his own ministers. Cases came down one by one. The Croatian public and we here expected quick and effective answers. I know that a coalition or a cooperative is not a simple organism or a mechanism and that it is not easy to negotiate quickly but the more difficult the problem requires a more responsible approach, a simpler decision. One of the mantras of Prime Minister Oreskovic was, the problem will be communicated next week. And so from week to week. The ministers did what they wanted and he never showed himself about it. Do you want examples? Minister Nakic. Today, Minister Nakic said in this House that the government had shown itself about amendments to the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act. I ask the prime minister when the government sat down, when she talked about these amendments? So this is where we're supposed to lie? The government has not sat down and has not taken a stand on these amendments and will neither take a stand nor take a stand because it will fall today. And tomorrow we won't be able to vote on that law because the government hasn't shown itself about it. Whoever does this will rape the procedure will violate Croatian laws. You can't do that anyway. Minister Nakic first made that he replaced successful directors and the hospital's recovery directors, the second thing he did stopped is very important hospital reconstruction projects. Have we ever heard from the Prime Minister that it was obvious? What did Minister Shustar do? Three, here's three things to say. Because of one, several tens of thousands of citizens went to the streets of Croatia. This has never happened to the government before to target a policy of tens of thousands of people on the road and ask for the minister's resignation. Secondly, what happened with the Luka Ritz Prize is a symbolic thing but it shows that some in that government don't care about elementary things. Stopping the cultural reform. Whoever doesn't understand that this is the mother of all reforms is doing damage to their own country. Have we heard anything from the Prime Minister except that the curricula reform continues? No one, no time, no way, no money, no deadlines. Do you know that today's mandates have expired for all members of the task force, 400 of them are no longer working on the project and we don't know who else will work or will work. Did we hear the Prime Minister knock his fist at the table and solve the problem? Third, we've been thrown out by an international mockery. It happens to us that the Nobel laureates are signing petitions for our ministers' shifts. It happens to us to raise several thousand people in Croatian culture, from film, theatre, all segments, publishing, literature. Can you remain a minister of pure cheeks if the petition is signed by Jack Lang, who and Melina Mercouri were the progenitor of a new cultural paradigm across Europe? Do you have any shame after that to be one minute Minister of Culture in any country in Europe? What have we heard from the Prime Minister in that case? Nothing at all. It's been months waiting for his reception, he won't be welcomed. So the prime minister covered such ministers, avoided answering what he thought about relevant social issues. And when intolerance grew and everyone warned us that the level of intolerance, intolerance, hate speech went beyond all limits, he did nothing. That's why you who say that elections are expensive, unnecessary and that they won't change the situation, I'm telling you, you're just unsuccessfully looking for alibis to tell the public that you're irreplaceable. No one's irreplaceable. The graves are as immeasurable as the prisons of the honest and innocent. We are not irreplaceable and tomorrow someone else will sit here because the people have the right to take that mandate and return it or give it back to someone who thinks this Croatia will lead better. So make the election now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11967	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11968	Comrade Beus, I'm replicating the part where you talked about the amendment. I don't think it's a good idea for us here at the High House if we're talking about something, then we need to know the acts that this is about. This is the case in Article 51 of the Treaty on The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian government explicitly states that no government official can accept the amendment, accept the amendment without the government's consent. So if he doesn't accept the amendment he can refuse it because that doesn't change the original text of the law which is... Look here, Mrs. Pusic, I apologize, you react, but this is how it stands, in the debate in the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies a representative of the Government can accept the amendment,... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] the applicant was submitted on the final draft law, which was proposed by the Government only with the prior consent of the Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the Rules of Procedure speak of acceptance, not refusal. .../The intruder can't be heard. Well, my colleague, actually, Minister Nakic, has not accepted any amendments. He's turned down all the amendments and he can do it according to the Rules of Procedure. He can't amend without the government's consent but it's a Rules of Procedure that you should have at least four years from now, but I've replicated to you my colleague Beus accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11969	Thank you very much. I'd first ask the ladies not to win like this. After all, we will give a word to the honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh that he will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11970	Comrade Shuker, if you're in anything master, it's that you're a master at counting on someone's forgetfulness. When you call for a pay phone what's been going on in the past few years, everyone's flat because they're not safe, but you know I'm your black box. In the last term, you have insisted so many times that on this speaker when the government decided on certain amendments. You remember the minister, say Linic. Whenever the amendment was rejected or adopted anyway, you insisted on being told when the government discussed it. Well, why should it be different? So adoption or refusal is the same thing because it's about valuablely different solutions in the law. Dear Mr. Schuker, today Minister Nakic here said that the government has rejected the amendments, which is, let's go speak for ourselves. Let him sign his name and last name and not hide behind the prime minister who, from now on, will have to resign from now on, will have to be the Government of the Constitution as of today, because when we make a decision on the vote of no confidence, the prime minister is obliged to resign on behalf of the government and will be the technical government in resignation until the election of a new prime minister, who must not decide on amendments either. ... [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11971	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to the next individual debate, and that's her esteemed representative, Veljak Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11972	Thank you. At the very beginning, I'm very sorry that the Prime Minister has to leave but I'm going to lead my debate like he's here. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Mr. Oreshkovic. Because of the situation in the last few weeks but also the overall situation in the last six months, after the long process of finding with my colleagues and my electoral body, I have decided to support a proposal for your shift. I must point out that this was not an easy decision but given the general situation in society and the government's attitude towards national minorities and minority representatives, there was no reason to give you full support. It is not my personal decision, but I have made it, as I have always done so far, with representatives of national minorities whose representative I am in the Parliament. Namely, at our last meeting this Tuesday, my associates and representatives of the eight of the 12 national minorities I represent gathered. 4 minorities who were not present, do not have active representatives or active associations so that they were not present. I must tell you that none of the present representatives of the Austrian, German, Polish, Roma, Russian, Russian, Ukrainian and Jewish national minorities expressed support for your government. On the contrary, they all made the point that they wanted early elections. That's the main reason why I'm going to support the proposal that my 42 colleagues referred to in the procedure. I wasn't among them because I waited until the last minute to see if anything would change. It wasn't easy to make this decision, but judging by it all, she's right. Since your government came to power all minorities have been reduced income through government offices, councils for national minorities and human rights offices and the rights of national minorities as well as through the state budget. Those funds we got weren't used. In particular, for the Roma national minority, nothing has been done to trace the national strategy for Roma inclusion, nor in the area of education, housing, health or employment. This is witnessed by the fact that the Committee for Monitoring, Implementation of the Strategy has not even been established, nor has a new Action Plan been activated, or that the Government's Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities does not particularly work when we talk about Roma. The general attitude towards minorities in society has also changed in some ways. Although the situation was never fully acceptable when we talk about attitudes towards national minorities in society. It seems to me that these negative attitudes have particularly come to light in the last six months. It has also often started to talk about reducing the rights of representatives of the national minority in the Croatian Parliament, which is not acceptable for us. Recent attacks on Roma in Zagreb, dropping bombs on kindergarten and a fire at a family house have not been resolved by the MUP. the functioning of the foundation for support for student and student support has been delayed for months. Although in response to my question that I asked on the current morning of the 13th of this year, you promised that the scholarship of members of the Roma National Minority would be resolved within a month. It was only solved three days ago. In particular, it means that students receive completed exams in this academic year and that the application tender is not yet completed. They end academic year before they were paid a single kuna scholarship. In addition to billions of kunas in the state budget, such a relationship with students was not necessary for members of national minorities. The process of overall curricular reform has been abandoned. It is known that this process also had my great support. For the first time since state independence, this process enables members of the Roma national minority to train according to model C on their own language, culture and history. With some ministers and ministries, I established co-operation, Minister Kovac, Hasanbegovic, Tolusic, Minister Šikic personally took me in and we agreed on steps some of which were realised, some of which were not. I have also established limited cooperation with us, the important Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, etc. etc. Minister Jurlina Alibegovic, Minister Kovac and Hasanbegovic and representatives of several ministries participated in the celebration of our national holidays. However, the overall assessment of this cooperation is not transient. For such a condition, the ministers themselves may not be as responsible as you personally as the head of this government. In the program and your presentation initiative, you were not focused on the position of national minorities. The minorities were mentioned only formally. The government document of the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion was not a word. Such a trend has continued in the last six months, and such a situation has affected my final decision, and most of all the representatives of the national minorities I answer to and with whom I have been in constant consultations. I regret that cooperation and work to improve the position of national minorities have not taken place. The fact is a large number of our citizens have problems, the fact is that we have a relatively well solved position of national minorities on paper. But because of your lack of initiative in the last six months, nothing has been done. I'm particularly disappointed because we've been trying I've been open for the last six months to cooperate with both you and your vice presidents, but it just didn't work out. As the situation continues to develop, I would like to say that no government can be stable without the support of a national minority club. That's what I've warned you about before, but obviously it wasn't taken seriously. Minority representatives are an important and equal factor in decision-making in this Parliament and whoever underestimates it and does not respect the Constitution as guaranteed by the position of national minorities and government documents such as the National Strategy for Roma Integration cannot expect stability in work, and respect in the international environment. However the situation develops, I only hope that these last six months will not happen again, not just because of the national minorities I represent. In this presentation, I have not come out of the framework and topic of the position of the national minorities that I represent. But there are numerous examples at all levels that are not acceptable and satisfying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11973	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative God Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11974	Fellow Members and colleagues, today we are discussing a motion to recall the prime minister, the government on a proposal from 42 signatories, including myself. However, the collapse of this government began much earlier. So, the beginning of this collapse of the government was actually the signature of 30 and some SDP representatives based on a newspaper article. The further process of overthrowing this government is continued by seeking a coalition partner or actually a partner to leave this coalition now in the government before the Commission's obvious. And I'd say the last nail in the fate of this government and the epilogue of this drama was actually the Prime Minister's request to withdraw the first and second vice-presidents of the party representatives who proposed and voted this prime minister. But I'm going to go back a little bit to the scale of things and what's been going on for the last few days, which is so-called. Karamarko case. So we've had opportunities to hear the Commission's argument both on the Committee itself and in the media I'll try to paraphrasise only two segments. He says he is guilty of expressing his personal opinion at an informal meeting on May 5th of this year on the development of the INA-MOL situation or if you want the Croatian Government and the Hungarian Government. Secondly, he is guilty because in an interview, in response to the journalist, he did not explain that in 2003 or 2004, he was in a business relationship with Mr. Joz Petrovic, which, as far as I know, is not true. If he was, he was his firm where he was a minority owner compared to INA, so not with Joza Petrovic. So, what do these arguments tell me to the Committee? Actually, if this was 60 or 70, this would be scary. But since this is 2016, it's scandalous and absurd. You know? So I'll stay here for a while. What I'm about to say now, I thought I'd never say it in this House because I tried to stay away from any world-wide ideological issues, and to build a consensus here in the Croatian Parliament to support the solution of the Croatian issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the issue of stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina at all because I think it's a strategic interest of both the Croatian state and the Croatian national interest. However, these decisions by the Commission, such arguments and other things here I will say about asking Minister Sustar to resign by being appointed to the government because in scientific work he claimed that creationism and evolution do not exclude one another. Or attacks against Minister Shustar over the Kuricular Reform. Why? Because it interferes with its business, again on a world-wide basis. So, these examples actually make me say that in this country there is a need for lustration, even though I had doubts about the credentiality of lustration in Croatia 25 years after democratic changes. Why am I saying that now? So in order to stop our victims from saying neglect to be gentle in the past system so that they would stop lustrating us by those who should have been lustrated a long time ago. And now to get back to the case of the so-called. Oreshkovic case. At least that's not how I perceive it, I think it's the case of this government. When I asked for it, I wasn't a politician, but when I asked for a political definition of this relationship between the Patriot coalition and the Most, then it occurred to me if one partner said this wasn't a coalition that it might be a cohabitation. Then I looked in Wikipedia for the meaning of the word cohabitation, and then I found an explanation that actually cohabitation is one form of government where two partners who are worldly or interestedly opposed actually rule together, but one another, thus acknowledging his rights. And here we have seen that these rights are not recognised. Then I realized, in fact, that what we've had so far is a two-authority. So in one government, there can't be two powers. And that is why it is necessary, after today's act, that after today's epilogue, we actually reset ourselves who we believe can establish a new government and establish it on new grounds and know who is responsible for it. If there are new elections, there will be new elections and my God. What I would now say to Mr. Oreshkovic, I can't tell him personally, but I told him on one of the two visits to the Patriot coalition meeting at the club here, and I said about this Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government I respect you and I respect you, but I ask that you respect me, that you respect those who chose me and us 60 because in our mandates there are pains and expectations of these people, but they are also in your positions. So, what are we expecting after all? We have a situation, I will now say openly here, we have a situation of resolution and appointment of the SOA director when the prime minister doesn't really want to consult with the parliamentary majority representative, so the majority shareholder's representative to speak and so to the corporate dictionary, has no opportunity to express his opinion. I'm not saying it has to be respected. So I'm asking here's Mr. Prime Minister even if the chief was an executive officer in it, and not just one of the managers would he dare work against the interests of the majority shareholders? Certainly not. And a representative of the majority shareholders in this government is the first Deputy Prime Minister. Therefore, at the very least he needed to be consulted on this. And the next thing I know, I'm in the field of what's my basic mission here in the Croatian Parliament. I came here with a mission to shed light on the importance of the solution of the Croatian issue of preserving the political subjectivity of Croats for Croatia, for BiH and for the Croatians and for the Croatian nation, and I expected to have support here. Unfortunately, however, I must now conclude the defamation, impoverished, disgraced, divided Croatia seems unable to help itself, let alone the Croats. And that's why I appeal to the bearers of the biggest responsibility in this House for the Patriot coalition, and if you want the HDZ, let the SDP look to examples of countries that are in far smaller problems such as Germany that have been able to after the elections that have ended so I say to the People's Dictionary to sit down and agree on what is the interest of Germany and make a big coalition. I don't know, don't expect me to give you a lecture, etc., etc. But I tell you the opportunities in Croatia are mature for this only question is whether Croatian politics is mature for it. And finally, I want to say that the elections may be ahead of us, perhaps not, the Electoral Law by me, forgive me for telling you, someone who comes from BiH and I know about what your visions of democratic culture are in my country, I believe that this country needs a new Electoral Law, I believe that the pre-election coalitions are not good for Croatia. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11975	My colleagues and colleagues can be quiet enough to hear what my colleague Ljubic is saying? Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11976	Okay, well, I believe that I just said my own question a little while ago whether people sitting here respect both the country and the people and a part of the people I come from, and then I'm not surprised that they react this way. I therefore believe that it would be necessary to deal with the electoral law here in Croatia and thus create conditions if there is an election, either in a few months or in four years, that we have one situation and that we know who can take responsibility for this country and not be constantly subject to the blackmails of certain entities that have the right to say the marginal meaning, i.e. the marginal number of votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11977	Thank you very much. We've got two replicas, the first one's a respected representative of Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11978	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Ljubic, you mentioned the worldview in your presentation. However, I think this is a demolition, your destruction of the prime minister is in fact a collapse in some way and your worldview that you have often called for in a pre-election campaign, which is one of the demo-Christian worldview. You mentioned attacks on Minister Schuster who some were founded, some unfounded. The unfounded must have been because his view of evolution is one or the other. But in this very exaggeration, you have, in some way, acknowledged that you have negotiated with people of different worlds, which is perfectly legitimate, but you will have to explain to your voters in the event of new elections why you have called for a worldview, and on the other hand you have negotiated with people who are different worldsmen and just those who attacked Minister Sustar for his stance on evolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11979	Thank you. The honourable representative Bozo Ljubic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11980	I can't argue that I've heard everything, so because in this part where I am, they don't hear all the debates that my colleagues are saying in front of us, but as far as I understand it, I'm complaining that I've actually objected to the world's debates and that I've focused my exposure on it. So, I want to say here in general, we in this House are therefore testifying, here I am, five, six months we've been dealing with more or less marginal issues. And I said in my address that I was almost certain that what I just said about lustration I would never say here in this House. However, things escalated in this direction so that today, every year from Croatia, the city of the size of Vinkovci disappears, and in 2015, 14.5 thousand Croatian Catholics disappeared. It would be the same if we transferred it to the number of Croats in the BiH and the number of Croatian citizens to disappear from Croatia each year. So if these aren't things, so demographics, economic development, youth employment, reform if these aren't the topics we're going to discuss, then I don't know what they are. And so here I am now, when we have the epilogue of this government maybe even calling this Parliament together, I am not now, I am not involved in any conversations, between us said I am not even a member of any party, I am a HDZ citizen, is for me a HDZ commitment and not a party membership, and that is why I say I am building up, I am not involved in counting and over-counting but I am responsible in the first row towards the people who chose me and these are Croats from the BiH, Croats from the diaspora because it is a huge resource that this Parliament has never properly valorised and no government has used properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11981	Thank you very much. We have another replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11982	Thank you very much, President. A few things. So I had to replicate that he objected to Minister Shustar when he interfered with the curricula reform because it was his job, it wasn't his job. He's a politician, he's a minister. I didn't know as a minister of the economy and a member of the last government any man who's leading a curriculative reform, do we all swear it's supposed to be a profession, right? And we all swear there should be politics here, and a profession in curricula reform. So it's not his job. The minister's job isn't to get into the content that's been done for a year, 500 people from the profession, because it can't be better than them. I never thought I could be better than them. So that's one thing. The second thing, I'm really sorry, is that you have this feeling that you've got today, but now you've done me a little bit of a response to the past replica when you said it's not a burden, that you're thinking more about the economy, about employment, about education, about not demographic policy, and then on the trail you'd like, because I really want to respect the Croats in BIH, I want to respect the BIH and I expect you to respect the people who chose me and who want this 4 months of Croatian politics not to happen, and these are the Croatian citizens who chose me and they want us to talk about reforms, not the economy and not the lustrations and not the political ideologies that have stopped, let's say the curricular reform. So I really respect those people who represent these people, and I know how hard they live, but respect my microworld, my Osijek and those people I represent from Slavonia because I got their mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11983	I'm asking you nicely, colleagues, please don't talk here if you want to talk to me. It's rude against those who speak and wrongly. Next, individual debate will be a respected representative, and pardon the response of the distinguished representative, God Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11984	So look, colleague Vrdoljak, I'm surprised by your replica that education reform is not the job of the minister of education and is also a university professor. On the other hand, I am surprised that you believe that only seven members of the committee led by Mr. Jokic seem to call themselves so that God's days and only in Croatia are capable of carrying out this process and then through those to say personalization of the process of curriculative reform is led by the political process of destroying this government. So 40 thousand people who were carried out, or so they say on Ban Jelačić Square, could not be implemented without the influence of politics. I've been in politics for a long time, I've got a parliamentary standing here as the entire club of representatives of MOST and the minister of the entire Oreshkovic government. So I know a little bit about how it's done. But unfortunately, most people who may not support such one-sided or world-wide one-sided approach to curricular reform are unable to exit because my voters, our voters, barely make ends meet, have no money to pay for the ticket to Zagreb so that they can go to Ban Jelačić Square. Who went out? There goes that elitist layer again. As for other things, of course, I thank the BIH, so I hope you will support the declaration that I hope the Committee on Croatians will offer outside of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament and to open a debate on the Croatian issue in the BIH which is actually an important and fundamental issue of the Republic itself and a national Croatian issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11985	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you for some peace now and allow, colleagues, we can stop throwing ourselves out of the bench a little bit so we can let our fellow Pecnik say what he wants to say because he's up now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11986	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't vote for Mr. Oreshkovic's government, and I didn't vote for him personally. I do not agree almost with any move by his government to stop the curricula reform, to collect treatment without listing these cases of acrobatics around Mr. Hasanbegovic, Montenegro and could be listed but it was already here about this speech so I do not repeat. Mr. Oreshkovic has promised 60 reforms of which nothing or almost nothing was done, the citizens have only further povertyed, the society has found itself in a crisis, especially civil society, it is maltern and decommissioned and the state is actually and we are all embarrassed and blasphemy. Today, HDZ is seeking the recall of Mr Oreshkovic and until a few months ago he represented him as a savior, today demoralizing him. It's actually a picture of HDZ, which is the most and the best thing it says about HDZ. But what concerns me in some way and why I decided to report it is a sentence by Mr Domagoj Milosevic here said: “I am convinced that there is a majority in this House who is willing to support us. ” Behind this phrase I read the announcement of a possible store. And that's why we Labourists asked only for the disbandment of the Parliament to avoid this shop that will inevitably come and that actually this predication that's called, in fact, it's a trade, to avoid it. Why? Because instead of one weak prime minister, we will be given a new prime minister, Prime Minister Maric, one from the international corporation, the other from the domestic corporation, and it is clear to all that without a prime minister with authority, without a strong government and without broad support in the House there will be no reforms that have been promised and which have not been made. And as much as I think it's not only Mr. Oreshkovic's fault, it's not only polite to declare him guilty, the blame is primarily on HDZ but also on the Patriot coalition at the Most. The eastern sin is in HDZ, of course not abolizing the others. And so we want to get to the new elections as soon as possible, we are against any over-requirement and support the HDZ's request in this case means that. And another sentence I can't resist, which is not calling Mr. Oreshkovic's impeachment to HDZ. And it seems to me that after all this, these months that he's been doing it, HDZ deserves it. That's the least of it, of course I mean figuratively.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11987	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11988	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here comes this day, this election year, this election cycle, the 8th session is full of precedents from what was the result after the election, of what the prime minister had come from this major political crisis that has been shaking Croatia since Easter, and in the last month has been very intense. There was a big problem with the quorum here in Parliament. The concentration was extremely low, there was no quorum on the boards either. Unfortunately, we still haven't welcomed the report from the attorney general, I've had a lot to ask him, but here's after my colleagues on my left have crashed the agenda on that board I've never had a chance. What to say after all we've been through, we're witnessing one failed experiment by the technocrat government or if you want to go to some kind of Croatian expert, they don't have some kind of enviable reference from the world. We also had the Greek government of Prime Minister Papademos, which lasted several months, the Monty government, simply lack political legitimacy. Mr. Oreshkovic came in here, probably knowing how it might end. There was too much interest in it, there was too much appetite to satisfy, and in the end we came up with the crisis that we came up with. Based on those 7 pages, 7 of the paper he gave on the brochure asked for confidence, it turned out that there could be no 7 passages from page 7 and let alone 7 of the reforms. So we haven't seen any serious reform, we haven't seen judicial reform, citizens will continue for decades to wait for individual court decisions, corruption in the judiciary will still be great, we haven't seen monetary reform, we haven't seen administration reform, we haven't seen local self-government reform. We will still have the same number of municipalities, counties and cities, etc., etc. In the last month, the concentration of both citizens and ourselves has largely come down to our dealings with ourselves. And it's like you're reading a book now and someone's playing next door, playing a band, you just can't concentrate. And I think that more or less we're all waiting and the citizens are also going to end this agony that doesn't lead anywhere. Please, don't argue, you can eventually get some squishy Frankenstein queen who's still going to last a few months to end up in the election again. Here I am yesterday handing over and staged my initiative, I hope that there has been a President of the Croatian Parliament because the new elections are the only real solution to this political crisis. Yes, we will have another precedent, it will be the precedent of the government's fall, that in Croatian political history, the recent history here is how far I've known it hasn't been recorded. What I want first of all to point out and what I told the prime minister that if he wants to do something first of all he has to touch in the tax administration, he has to touch in DUDI, in HRT, in the State Judiciary Council and some other institutions. Of all that, he's the only one. directly through the parliamentary majority worked some sort of HRT staffing not enough, too late. We'll end up in the end that this is going to be a lost year that I'm sorry. The government continued the Croatian state tradition as well, so to speak, it's a little ironic. Therefore, the intention to raise taxes on real estate, sale of state property, reduction of health or social rights, associations etc. I will single out only what happened here with Končar, selling state stakes in Končar, colleagues and colleagues, the permanent threat of Croatia's energy transition, the transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources. I'm reading the other day, India has given up on four huge thermal power plants and what our energy future is like. Končar who, as much as he participated in Croatian energy, produced parts or wind power plants now ended up in the hands of still pension funds, but who guarantees us that these shares will not be sold tomorrow to a tenth, perhaps even under the new government of Simmons, so Simens shut down production. So, giving companies of strategic importance, of particular interest on the basis of which we should build our policy, we should build our future without public debate, without debate in the Parliament, without projections, without the plan that we know whether this company will survive in a year or end up as a hardware store or hundreds of other companies is extremely unserious. And not to tell you again that the thesis has been repeated so many times that everything was in a phone session under the auspices of a severe political crisis, I say again while we all watched that orchestra, as we watched it finally get rid of this political crisis. Almost nothing constructive has been done in the last month or several days in the Croatian public because whenever we call a conference for something to say smart, who would pass it on, because it is known what the experiment is, you know what's interesting about that class. We ladies and gentlemen, MPs and colleagues don't have much time. As for further privatisations, retail that was illegally separated from INE last year probably Todorovic is waiting to devour it, ACI MARINA is likely to buy ADRIS GROUP. It's this crown capitalism when big corporations are negotiated with a government where they have a big influence. We could talk about it for a long time, but I think I've given a clear point that's caused by the sale of Končar, and that's what the prime minister here says that's not going to cut the debt, these poor 360 million in such a way, that's not even two weeks since the interest service. Therefore, it is better to have in this context debt and Concar than not to have Končar again to have that debt negligiblely less and more rapidly growing. And what I warned my colleague Reiner at the very beginning, that I had sent many parliamentary questions to this government, to the ministers, not for one day today I had not received an answer, although it was a deadline, how many months according to the Rules of Procedure, for some my own were two months and more. There's no answer that makes me very sad. But never mind, I'll keep writing. One of the topics was also the issue... in Međimurje and... that could happen in Slavonia, the methods of carbon exploitation that has been banned in many countries because it causes an earthquake, because it pollutes the water streams but I see according to these rumors that there's not much interest, it doesn't matter. I'll say for the end, for the end I'll just tell my colleagues and colleagues, we have to reorganize this country, we have to reorganize all of its institutions that finally Finally, within a reasonable period of a few years, a Croatian man gets a court ruling and there is no privileged obtaining incentives or paying taxes. [[/Break President: My colleagues and colleagues, please calm down a little so that my colleague Sincic can say what he wants to say. Please. Let's be parliamentary.]] To end, Mr. Oreshkovic, everything I have listed for all my other criticisms and objections during this eighth term, for the damage done to the Homeland, you must leave and I will vote for your impeachment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11989	Thank you very much. At your presentation we have one replica, the distinguished representative of Jasna Matulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11990	I tried not to answer because in fact everything that was needed on behalf of the MOST Club was said by Mr. Šimić on behalf of all of us and I thought there was nothing more to be added to it. However, I was also distracted by this presentation as well as by an innumerable number of exhibitions where this government is declared by experiment, adventure or similar expressions that I find not true at all. I think this government was one I won't speak even in the last name but I think it's still one government that can be an example. We found one of our other ways, a different path that Prime Minister Oreshkovic has made for the first time since I've been in business, and in business I've been a private entrepreneur for over 20 years, he's created a team, a team of people of whom, consisted of various political options, of people he doesn't know but who worked very synchronised. I don't know if Mr. Wilibor Sincic has ever looked a little more closely or perhaps listened to today's report by Mr. Prime Minister who clearly and unequivocally presented the information that proves that more has been done now than perhaps in the last 4 or 8 years or even 20 years. And most importantly, what I don't know if Mr. Sincic recognizes, and that's teamwork, unite people to look one way, to look at national interests is something I recognize with this government. I've passed since I've worked with local self-government units so far, and I've received confirmation from them that all major projects requiring the coordination of several ministries have come to a positive response so that everyone can get involved so that the projects will pass in order to realize themselves. What's also called the only real option is the election. I just want you to know that you're carrying all the expensive responsibility for the billions that are going to be lost because they're not going to have anyone from the EU and that's our only chance right now and it's very short. This year is lost, and probably the beginning next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11991	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Sincic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11992	Thank you. As I said publicly, Mr. Prime Minister in his report showed that positive side let's say what happened during his term. For much of it it is not due, but this is the consequence that both the world market and Europe finally pulled us forward. Also, if what I said about Končar and the energy transition meant nothing and if it didn't mean anything to all the warnings not to go, i.e. a warning not to go to the coalition with whom it went to the coalition because there will be interests in that coalition that will end up like this. And who knows how many other Karamarks, Sanader and third in Croatian politics, whose criminal records are kept in the DORH drawer. Therefore, very carefully in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11993	Thank you very much. And the last individual debate is the distinguished representatives of Ines Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11994	Honorable MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, the respected ministers who are present here today give support to your prime minister. Five months ago, we started working together to build a different Croatia. The state we found at that moment is the continuity of the situation that continues in Croatia for the last 15 years, 20 years. The production of the fall, the demographic structure was getting worse and worse, bureaucracy growing, the leading Croatian companies we left to others. I guess there's gonna be someone else who can manage them better than us or something. We could list and describe the situation for days and not say everything, but that's not necessary. Croatian citizens feel it every day on their skin and in their lives. In an attempt to respond to such movements, we formed this government, which was the truth, a compromise, but the one we agreed on to give the opportunity to change something in Croatia, to move for the better. For decades, after we had a government headed by policy leaders in an attempt to change such a situation and trends, we suggested that the head of the government be a person who comes from a different mile. Together we agreed to be Mr. Oreshkovic to whom we should thank for the courage to deal with the current situation. The government started working, recorded the situation, created basic programming directions and tried to balance between wishes, needs and objective strange situations that went public every day, which are at least problematic from the point of view of the interest of all in Croatia. These situations were not produced by this government, they were not produced by the Most. No, they've always been there, they've always been and often have a background effect on the lives of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and you know it well. Thanks to MOST, this government and, of course, to Mr Oreshkovic, such phenomena have been suppressed in a successful or less successful way. We are aware that some decisions in this complex relationship may not have been the most optimistic, but it is unquestionably that the overall effect of this government is positive and that, according to objective indicators, we should leave this government to continue with the changes it has started and to fully apply what it has initiated. Unfortunately, because of the inability to control and manage this government by individual interest groups, part of the majority that supported the government decided to stop all these positive efforts by the government. In order to protect the INA's existing situation, the inability to influence the MUP and intelligence services, and a number of other similar moments have raised the alarm and the result of this alarm is today's vote of confidence to Prime Minister Oreshkovic. MOST does not support this in any form. We believe that this government needed time to show what it could do, but we are aware that with our 12 hands today, we cannot, as well as for the last five months, have a more important impact on key and necessary decisions. That is why we will still need stronger support from voters if citizens recognize our ideas, models and goals in the next elections. If they're not some, they're choosing the structures they've always owed us over the four-year period for the new 100 billion. MOST has always remained consistent and persistent in its requirements and objectives. That's what we're gonna do now. We won't vote for the impeachment of this government, because we don't see any objective reason for its impeachment. But we're also not going to go too far, and we make that clear. This would be contrary to what the Most and created, which is why citizens across the Republic of Croatia have given us So we thank Mr Oreshkovic for his professional cooperation, for the courage and desire, the will and the time you have given with your co-workers in the government, with ministers, all ministers, us representatives and the entire Croatian public. [[/Break President: My colleagues calm down a little so that my colleague Strenja Linic can say in peace what she wants to say. Please calm down.]] I guess one day it will be time for people like you, a group of people who have come and tried to do something, whose heart Croatia has prevailed over those who have Croatia in its pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11995	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the reports, and I'm closing the debate. And of course now I will give my word to the honourable Prime Minister, Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11996	I'll be brief. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs. Thank you to all the MPs for this debate. I hope that Croatian citizens today have received a clear picture of the reasons for this political crisis. I came with the best intentions to help my country, I did my best, and I believe that the future will be better for Croatia. In the end, I would just like to thank all those who have given me support, especially my family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-06-16-0.u11997	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude, since the motionary won't speak. We'll move our colleagues and colleagues to the vote. So, we move to a vote on a proposal to launch a trust issue with Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic. I'm asking you to engage to check the quorum. Please score. There's 137 of us in total, so there's enough of us. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make valid decisions. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure stipulates that most of all the votes of all MPs, therefore 76, decisions are made to give confidence to the President and to the members of the Government or to show mistrust to the Prime Minister, to the Government as a whole or to a single member of the Government. Next, I am voting in favour of the decision to show no confidence to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Tihomir Oreshkovic. Who's up for that? I'm asking for a result. 125 is for mistrust, 2 abstentions, 15 is against it. Thus, I find that enough votes have been taken to make a decision about distrusting the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Tihomir Oreshkovic. I'd like to finish today's session. The session continues tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the point Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 63. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. Here's what we'd like to start with today's work. Here you go. I see a distinguished representative of Stipe Petrina appears. Here you go.
