ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3215	We now move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Report on the audit of higher schools carried out for 2014 The report is submitted by the State Audit Office under the provisions of Article 9. The State Audit Office Act. You've received reports in the boxes. The debate has already been conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session, you have them on your benches. Does the applicant perhaps want to further explain the report? Mr Serdarusic is the deputy chief state auditor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3216	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable MPs and MPs. Within this item of the agenda on the report on the financial audit of higher schools carried out, I will give you some general information, noting that, in accordance with the established procedure, all individual reports on the audit carried out and the joint report delivered to this High House in June of this year. According to the 2016 programme and work plan of 88 public higher universities, as many as were in the Republic of Croatia in 2014, the State Audit Office covered 68 higher universities, 7 universities, 55 universities and academia, and 6 universities whose total revenues amounted to slightly less than 4 billion kuna. The criterion was the amount of total revenue so that the audit covered those higher universities whose total revenues were higher than 20 million kuna. The subject matter of the audit was financial reports and operations for 2014, and the objectives of the audit were to establish the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports, to verify compliance with the rules governing the financial operations of higher schools, and to assess the effectiveness of the use of public funds. As I initially mentioned for each high school, a report on the audit carried out describing irregularities and failures was drawn up, and the state auditors gave orders and recommendations with the aim of removing irregularities and thus improving their business. After the legal representative was shown on the draft report, it was delivered to the University and the Croatian Assembly, and in accordance with the Law on the right to access information, all reports were published on the website of the State Audit Office and thus became available to the general public. In line with the international audit standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions, opinions on financial reports and business have been expressed on the basis of the facts set out, and for 34 higher universities, without a conditional opinion. The most frequent irregularities are identified in planning, accounting, income, asset expenditure and public procurement. I'll only list some of the irregularities identified. In some high schools, the revenues and expenditures achieved are significantly deviating from the planned ones. The monitoring and reporting system for the implementation of the financial plan has not been established, which means that the plan is not in the function of monitoring the achievement of the objectives of the business. Business events are not recorded in the prescribed accounts of the accounting plan. The same incomes were shown by certain higher universities as their own incomes, and a particular one as intended, and that among other things because there are no regulations that would in a unique way regulate the presentation of these revenues. Although compulsory higher universities did not provide the Ministry of Finance with data on their own incomes and expenditures paid or delivered outside the prescribed deadline. Furthermore, various salary supplements have been financed from their own and dedicated revenues. The share of salaries financed from these revenues differs between individual higher universities and ranges from 2 to 48%, and in most cases the allowances and fees are paid on the basis of the decisions of the legal representative without established criteria. At certain higher universities, salary allowances were paid to all employees as permanent monthly allowances. In addition, from their own and dedicated revenues, the fees under the Act Treaty and the copyright fees concluded with external associates have been financed to a significant extent, but also with high-school employees. For similar jobs in some higher universities, a copyright contract was concluded, and in another work contract, which was ultimately reflected in the amount of expenditure shown. The higher number of higher universities during the year were free money, and some available surpluses and armed funds account for more than 90% of the annual revenues achieved, although at the same time they had significant amounts of outstanding liabilities. In relation to tuition, criteria for payment in meals or exemption from payment have not been adopted. Real estate owned by a university or university is not recorded in business books, and they are not supplied to the State Office for the Management of State Property. Appreciable MPs and MPs, these are as I have said only some of the irregularities identified that have affected the statement of conditional opinions. To remove all irregularities, the office gave orders and recommendations that high schools accepted and developed their implementation plan. The plan has defined implementation deadlines and responsible persons, and the office will check their implementation in the following audits. What it can conclude from the audits carried out by higher universities is that most identified irregularities and high school failures can be eliminated by establishing a more efficient and efficient internal control system. And for the part relating to equalising the treatment in certain areas, it is necessary to regulate those areas normably, or to comply with certain legal provisions, therefore all reports have been delivered to the competent ministry. Finally, the implementation of the tasks and recommendations made by the State Audit Office to high schools will increase compliance with the laws, regulations and transparency of public spending in higher schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3217	I thank the applicant's representative, Deputy Chief State Auditor, Mr Joza Serdarusic, for this information. Would the representatives of the committee's rapporteur like to take the floor? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? There isn't. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture? No, I don't. Okay. Now I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. The first one came forward for discussion on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Mr. Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the State Audit. The Alliance of Independent Lists will accept this report. And again, we commend the State Audit Office for doing an expert analysis and the report is very concise and precise. In the financial reports and business of higher universities for 2014 34 unconditional and 34 conditional opinions were expressed. It should also be pointed out that the last such financial report was made in 2009 and that there has been no such report for five years and that there have been shifts in work. High-level universities for which conditional opinions have been expressed have not sufficiently highlighted internal controls to ensure the legality and use of the funds which have affected the occurrence of irregularities in the area of income planning, expenditure, assets and public procurement. For all irregularities and failures identified, the State Audit Office has given orders and recommendations which would contribute to increasing compliance with the laws, regulations and efficiency of the use of funds. All of this necessarily leads to one conclusion that the State Audit Office should have greater powers that entities which do not implement its recommendations should be changed in the sense that some pensions are paid in order not to have the same 34 conditional opinions in the next 2015 report that have not passed the state audit. In addition, the revision found that high schools in certain areas of business differ, indicating insufficient normative arrangements. Lack of uniform rules of difference and different treatment in the use and recording of own and dedicated revenues. In addition, for similar jobs, certain higher schools conclude performance contracts and other copyright contracts. In addition, due to the non-compliance of certain Regulations of the Law on the Management and Availability of Assets owned by the Republic of Croatia and the State Property Register Regulation, most of the higher universities did not provide real estate data to the competent national authority for recording purposes. And we think that this new ministry, run by counterpart Goran Maric, will make major shifts as far as that part is concerned. The regulatory arrangement of these areas and the adoption of uniform rules to be applied in business would contribute to the transparency of financial management and reporting of higher education operations. I would like to point out that as in the Committee on Education, we have pointed out that this would be most of the topics for people who understand themselves in finance, we are most professors and teachers in this committee, but here I am as a layman in the report there are illogicalities, so I would like to warn you about that. For example, what is alarming and noted in the report that certain higher universities were holding funds while at the same time having outstanding debts to suppliers, which is very illogical. Once again, I emphasise and commend the work of the State Audit Office and here is the Most Independent Lists will accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3219	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by an esteemed colleague, Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3220	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague of Sladolev, isn't he here? And there's, uh, I don't know if I heard correctly or if there's some lapus linguae that you said would improve compliance with the law. Well, they're either in line with the law or they're not, or I'm totally wrong. That's one thing. I'm saying maybe it's a slip or a lapus linguae. And secondly, what I think is discriminatory and it's also a discussion, so the employees who do their own work contract, or not the employees, but the department of the university means something that is a few categories of discussion, and that would probably require some others, and some other methodology and preventive and sanctioning. Well, just tell me this, so this rang first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3221	I thank my esteemed colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. The answer to the replica? There isn't. Thank you. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A colleague of Sladolov you said an interesting thought, which is that the Office of Audit should also have some major powers to make mistakes in the business that have occurred and that have financial damage, however, have some kind of repercussion. Here I will tell you how right you are on a simple example, on page 44 of the revision report for the university in Zagreb writes the following information which is literally frapantan, says the result of an ineligible withdrawal of credit funds approved for the financing of the capital project of the second phase, solving the spatial problems of the University of Zagreb and the components created due to the insufficient preparation of the project is an additional cost for the state budget in net amount of 7 million 859 thousand 807 kuna. So the unpreparedness of projects, which is directly due to the poor work of the Rectorate and the University of Zagreb, cost the state budget almost 8 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3223	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his replica. The reply to the replica, the esteemed colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you fellow Jovanovic and we have received information that this is a new Law on State Audit that will go in this direction. So, once again, he would point out these recommendations that the State Audit Office has pointed out that he has some greater powers because we are constantly discussing these reports. In particular, as regards this 2009 and now 2014 report, some shifts are seen, but I do not think there should be only recommendations but there should be a much more important legislative framework as far as this is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3225	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for his reply. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Office of Audit, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report from the State Audit that reveals how our higher schools work, how much money they receive from the budget and from the tuition, how much do they have to do with the property, the official cars, the real estate, how much do they invest in the development of activities and science, how much in the salaries of their own employees? We heard from 88 high schools the subject of the audit was 68. Some may also wonder how these 68 were selected, so again, the criterion was that the total income of the facility was greater than 20 million kuna. What should certainly be repeated is that the total revenues of these 68 institutions were totaling 4 billion kuna. So it's really big money, and we know it's not enough, but this amount, too, if it doesn't have the manners of a good master, is rarely spent on what's not good. To point out that out of these 4 billion kunas 2.8 billion comes from the state budget it's 70%, 828 million kuna is from so-called. own and dedicated incomes are 20% and the data that is very important refers to 230 million kunas are the funds that come from European funds. So what we have to try to be as successful as possible and it's currently 5.7%. So what do you say right now that someone asks us in one word how to describe this report, what is the state of our higher education institutions? So without any dilemma, this finding is not catastrophic because no opinion that would be a sign to the police or the DORH is not negative. So no one got a negative opinion and that's good. However, I would take the assessment that this report is worrying because half of the opinion is conditional. Maybe someone who's more optimistic than me would say that we have to be satisfied because half is unconditional. I wouldn't agree with that. However, what should be pointed out, therefore, from these 68 reports 34 received unconditional opinion. We usually talk about the bad ones. Well, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna use some of my scheduled minutes to read who got the unconditional opinion that at least in this way those environments would be praised. This is the University of Josip Jurj Strossmayer in Osijek, the University of Jurja Dobrile in Pula, the Academy of Drama Arts in Zagreb, the Faculty of Economics in Rijeka, the Faculty of Economics in Split, the Faculty of Economics, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Engineering and Shipbuilding in Split, the Faculty of Civil Engineering, the Faculty of Civil Engineering, Architecture and Geodesy in Split, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Faculty of Civil Engineering Zagreb, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Split, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Faculty of Osijek, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Faculty of Faculty of Osijek, Faculty of the Faculty of Maritime Sciences of Split, Faculty of Faculty of Law, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education and Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Faculty of Education, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Faculty of Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Faculty of Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Faculty of Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Faculty of Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Faculty Here are my congratulations to the administrations and to all the employees in these environments who have received unconditional opinion. What is particularly important is that this finding ultimately produces something good. So if something was done wrong to correct itself, especially with these powers audits there is nothing else that can be done. But what's encouraging? Therefore, out of this 34 unconditional opinion in the last audit which was true in 2009, 21 institutions received a conditional opinion, 21 institutions from that year improved their business and, in accordance with the observations of the State Audit, received now unconditional opinion, which is also very good. What does it mean that someone got a conditional opinion? Therefore, their financial reports, public procurement, balance sheet planning and other financial indicators are not fully in line with the law or other irregularities have been identified. Most colleges did not list their assets, library buildings, there are gaps in financial reports, lack of documentation to cover costs and what I find particularly controversial where I really think we should send a clear message today, and these are the rules and criteria and the availability of our own resources. Thus, in the good work, own funds relate to money collected from students, from tuition, registration fees, the cost of making diplomas, the collection of certificates, applications and other administrative fees that all colleges charge. Since most universities are invited and this is the autonomy of universities, each higher education institution has its own criteria or generally has no criteria for determining the level of tuition and other fees and decides on its own how that money will be spent. Here is an example, the Faculty of Law in Zagreb charged a membership fee of 7200 kuna for the admission of extraordinary students to the first year of the university. Faculty of Law in Split 7000 kuna, and in Rijeka and Osijek 5000 and 500 kuna. At the same time, for all regular students, the ministry pays a scholarship amounting to 3650 kuna. So big differences, and that's where there's a possibility where an extra step could be made to make these resources more high-quality. The way colleges spend money from students is even more different. The regulation shall be carried out separately by each institution. According to the audit, a large part of that money is leaving for various additions and stimulating high school staff. The lack of such rules, their lack of accuracy or lack of clearly measurable criteria was, in almost all cases, one of the reasons for giving a conditional opinion. A large number of colleges use these funds to raise their salaries. So that's not a question to anyone. That doesn't have to be disputed either, but that's why no one got a conditional opinion. So, I want to emphasize that. No one has a problem with spending some of that money and increasing the salaries of college employees. However, according to the audit, none of the institutions received a conditional opinion just because they were paying salaries which were mostly financed by tuition, certificates and other documents paid by colleges, but because their payments were not sufficiently normised, they did not prescribe quantifiable criteria, they did not keep records of certain classes, and they paid extras for increased burden on teaching. So there's that problem. It is a dispute if 80% of these funds are spent on wages. And that's where it was tried to get rid of, try to pass one rule, rule on standards and how to use high-school and public scientific institutes' own and dedicated incomes. He would be almost completely, he would actually be finished not completely and it tried what the revision requires in a unique way to standardise this problem and make it more transparent. However, referring to university autonomy, one institution in co-operation with the Constitutional Court immediately made it clear that it would bring down that regulation at the Constitutional Court and that is why it was not adopted. The audit states that this should have been done, but it did not. That's why I'm not telling you. And if you've studied these materials well and seen and you can figure out who was the most against, who said they'd crash in the Constitutional Court. So in the opinion of the review you will see that the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, which received a conditional opinion, spends as much as 14 million kuna on salary supplements. What are the criteria? There are no criteria. The Faculty paid employees 14 million kunas of salary supplements without in any way stating by any criteria and why they are paid. By decision of the College Council, these funds are used to pay salary supplements. Pay-based officers get 30%, tenants 20 percent. Extras are financed for work above the full burden of teaching, the additions due to the increased volume of work are paid in amounts from 3826 to 82566 kuna. So the regulation that I was talking about clearly prescribed all of this which was stated in the revision as a reason for obtaining conditional opinions. And in that rulebook, it was very correct. It's said well, let's work it out, correctly set criteria and let 60% of these incomes of their own go to pay, but the remaining 40% should be directed to increase the quality of teaching activities, scientific activities, standards of students. But that wasn't enough either, so you have to spend all 100% of the income on the balance of salaries that came to 42112 kuna on one institution. If business were done as rationally as it is now, we take the situation to be only 2%, 2% more rational than it is now for these 4 billion revenues, that would be about 80 million kuna. 80 million kuna to invest in a student standard would be 8,000 scholarships per 1,000 kuna for 10 months a year. I think that should be enough incentive for everyone to try to solve these reasons that led to a conditional opinion. So if the reasons are removed and they are unconditional opinions it will be more money that will be spent on improving student standards or scientific and teaching activities in colleges. Therefore, we as a SDP club will support the audit findings. We thank her for the work they have done, but we also hope that on the basis of the findings of the State Audit and the deadline given, which is 60 days, all institutions that have received a conditional opinion will draw up a plan to remove the reasons for which they have received a conditional opinion. And what I would quote in the end to all college employees once again, that an article that is always used to prevent the improvement of the quality of work at universities, to ensure the integration of the university, to adopt a rule that will regulate better progress, a rule that will ensure that its own incomes are more rational. The article 68, which states: “The autonomy of the university is guaranteed. The university independently decides on its structure and action in accordance with the law." These two sentences are used to prevent any reform at Croatian universities. A colleague living in America, a professor at a respected university, when he read the report of this audit, he sent me a message. It says in the world the autonomy of the university refers to content, curiculum and research, and has nothing to do with business. And that's what I'm ordering here from the Parliament. So, as politicians, states, parliament, the ministry does not want to manage Croatian science, Croatian higher education. He just wants to monitor how funds are spent at the university and high schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3227	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first person to answer the line was Honorable colleague Damir Tomic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3228	Thank you, Vice President. Your colleague Jovanovic said all this nicely, especially when it comes to university autonomy. Here I would like to remind you of just a few details that are consistent with what you have been saying, as regards EU countries. The fact is that about 60% of Croatian students pay tuition between 500 and 1000 euros while, for example, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Slovakia have scholarships below 100 euros. Furthermore, only 4% of Croatian regular students receive state scholarships which are in these countries, as well as in all other European countries far above that percentage. And in line with what you said, I would really suggest that if we can't do it as agents to join this initiative and to separate some of our own funds into a fund that would be to increase scholarships to regular students. Furthermore, I would take this opportunity, it's not exactly a subject, but I hope you won't mind me reminding me that we're here all day talking about the dignity of this House and the threat of this same House by some kind of external force that I agree with, but we're breaking our own decisions. I will remind this House that at the end of 2015 we made a decision in this House on the establishment of the University of Slavonski Brod and that our own decision was harshly violated in the next budget when we did not even open an entry for this university. So this time I use my ability to call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to make the same mistake because it is really not fair that Slavonia is always paying some kind of political billing. I will remind you that we have opened several universities in Croatia, only we disagree that Slavonski Brod is functioning. A million inhabitants in eastern Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3229	I thank my esteemed colleague, Tomic, for the replica. Replication response, distinguished colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3230	Thank you, colleague Tomic. So what we all need to advocate is for Croatia to be a society of equal opportunities for everyone, which is that everyone can get the highest quality education. Unfortunately, it is also known that Croatia is not a socially mobile society because children who come from a family whose parents have only completed primary school are less often graduates. Since this is the 2014 Report, I looked into our documents and saw that in 2014 we had 3013 new scholarships for students of poor socioeconomic status and that scholarships that year were doubled not only in amount but also in number. So I hope that that trend will continue in the budget for this year and that this will bring us closer to the EU average.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3231	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for his reply. The next call came through, dear colleague Blaženko Boban, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3232	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Jovanovic and almost not to replicate about your exposure except for the very beginning when you said in this report we have 34 unconditional and 34 conditional opinions. Now, from that you judge that the glass is half empty, and someone else will judge how full the glass is. I think it would be different for all of us to select this category of conditional opinion in several categories. Because in some ways this unconditional opinion is an excellent assessment, and this conditional opinion can be an assessment and sufficient and very good. And because of that, if you remember and in the previous session on several occasions through reports and audit reports, I have always warned that this can't only be conditional, it must have some higher categorization, a parchment in order to probably impress both with me and with you and with more or less representatives for the specific report indeed be positive. Not only the report, the report is always positive what the review is doing, but the impression of the report itself would be positive if we had a categorization of this conditional opinion. It doesn't matter about those you were talking about I think the Faculty of Law in Zagreb or someone out there is another institution or institution or higher school that got a conditional opinion there because it didn't count enough benches in its classrooms or what. It is not quite the category of that, and unfortunately through these reports they are reduced to one single category. So I appeal once again that this conditional opinion is really categorized into at least two more subgroups so that we can have a bit of a clearer impression of the state of the review of any one in this case of your report that we have before us but also a number of others who will come before us in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3233	I thank my esteemed colleague Boban for his replica. Replication response, distinguished colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3234	Thank you. Well, if you read the review report more carefully, you will see that exactly the areas of your conditional opinion are listed there. So it's already been done that parchment just needs to be a little bit more studioy and go through all of that. But what I call upon all of us to really encourage us to be to see what is the main objection of the Audit Office, it is a lack of a normative solution especially of our own and... arrival. [[You don't understand.]] And let's get this done, here we'll make a step that will make it possible for the university to operate more transparently and prevent the university from being told an ugly story, not to serve students, but only to grow salaries in certain environments in individual universities, individual departments and individual cathedrals.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3235	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3236	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Jovanovic is clear from your presentation when we talk about the 4 billion kuna funds held by the higher schools covered by the revision in 2014 that a great not only social but also financial power lies on high schools in the Republic of Croatia. Of these 4 billion kunas, if we exclude 8 billion kunas of assets that have our higher universities of 4 billion kunas, it comes from the state budget and account for 70% of total revenues and high-school incomes, and 20% of total incomes and receipts are actually funded by our students. 882 million kunas pay students to universities in a way that pays tuitions that move, you said from five and a half thousand to ten thousand kunas, various administrative fees, promotions, printing diplomas, etc., etc. What the real question is, in fact, why is it that out of these dedicated and own incomes that are by the masquerade of our students' resources, how can derogations that are invested in wages rather than in improving activity, how can deviations be from, say, 1.6% to 48.4%? How is it possible that high school rules are strictly prescribed percentages that need to be financed from their own income, that this is completely ignored and that the State Audit does not actually see what is financed from its own income? If funded, it is often seen that it is not financed in a completely legal way. These are some things to discuss, not to be like the Croatian Parliament to tutors to Croatian higher universities, but we have the right to ask where the budget money of all of us is going, means 2.7 billion kuna, and then students have the right to ask what the 882 million kuna is investing in annually as was an example in 2014 as they invested in universities. Does most of these funds have to be invested in additional salaries so I will dare say the same as the salaries of parliamentary representatives in relation to Croatian reality are quite high.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3237	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice on the line. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3238	My colleague Glasovac, that is exactly what the review highlighted as the problem I was talking about in my presentation. So, I said clearly, and I'm going to repeat that because of the pressure of the Faculty of Law and their connections with the Constitutional Court, it wasn't going to go into the adoption of this regulation because they clearly said they were going to bring it down in the Constitutional Court. I'm going to repeat that the rulebook was very, very benign and that it asked for 60-40% to be distributed, so that still 60% could go to raise the salaries of people working in classes and colleges, but that wasn't enough either. So I actually have one proposal that I hope will be heard, so if the ministry doesn't want to adopt a regulation like this because it's in the ministry's jurisdiction, because they say it's a interference in the autonomy of the university, I call on, as the rectoral assembly brings some regulations and acts, that the rectoral choir and the student choir together bring together a rule that will apply to all universities and in which it will normize and level out how to dispose of their own unscheduled incomes, and that is also for the benefit of students who spend most of that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3239	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HNS and HSU esteemed colleague Mrs Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the review, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing the State Audit Report on High School Business for 2014. The deputy state auditor himself said that in these, therefore, not to repeat all the data, since the review reviewed the situation in 68 institutions, half of which received unconditional, and half of the conditional opinion, those who received the conditional opinion were also given some recommendations and there is every chance that it was something that happened two years ago, that they might have made these recommendations and respected and that the situation is different now. So since this is about the 2014 review report, I think that this subject, given the time gap, would be justified to discuss it on the committee, so in the parliamentary committee, and not at the plenary session as data that are relevant at this point because these data can be no longer stand, given that they are two years old. However, I will understand this opportunity or this fact that we are discussing at the plenary session of the Parliament, how the opportunity not so much to discuss the concrete findings of the State Audit and its 2014 report, but to discuss the situation in the financing of higher education at all in Croatia and the possibility to fix this. This is probably our most important and most precious resource and we should gradually go towards at least over 50% of the generation being covered not only by the possibility of schooling after high school but also by the results of this schooling, so also by the fact that how many people in these institutions are in fact graduating, mastering, doctoring, so not only by imputence but also by means of an output, not only of how many people enter the system but also by how much they actually produce, so how many people produce. The first recommendation of the HNS and HSU Club is that the reports which are of this nature, so the revisions that are for an earlier period of time, consider the possibility to be discussed on committees, and that here at the plenary session, a discussion on the scale of which this report speaks. Of course, our club will support this report, which is very correct, but as I say, it's hard to say whether these facts that are presented in it are still standing today. Several remarks stemming from this report is that business, criteria, is very unequal. This seems to me to be a typical situation where on the one hand we have a reregulation and on the other hand we have a vague regulation. So it is possible and it is obvious from what my colleagues have said before me and what has been submitted here as an introductory presentation regarding this report that one of the key topics is the matter of the schedule and the allocation of these own revenues. So how can it be said at one university that the university's own incomes are paid or administered from the university level and at another university in the same country under the same laws, the same conditions are simply passed by a rule that these funds are not paid to a university but are available to universities? It can be argued in favour of one and the other, it can also have different points of view but I don't see how it's possible that in the same conditions and by the same regulation of universities, 20% of their incomes are so distributed differently, so 20% of what they're funded from. Another fact, however large these 4 billion seem, is one of the most important things in which the state spends its money. And just to illustrate that the EU average is 2.3 of GDP to finance higher education, ours is between 0.8, 0.9 GDP to finance this education. It's somewhat, although I wouldn't justify it, but it's somewhat understandable in terms of economic downturn. In terms of panic, and unfortunately, education is always an education and especially a higher education is considered something that is in the second order to say so. I don't think that's justified, but I know that logic. However, in terms of economic growth, there is no longer any justification. And our goal must be to start investing in higher education as in development, as in the Strategy for Economic Growth, as in the vision of the development of Croatian society. And for that, we must seek at least what the EU average is, which of course will be less than many countries in absolute student amounts because GDP in different European countries is very different and ours is somewhere in the lower part, to be decent, those lists, but at least to pursue that average. In that case, we wouldn't have this situation that I agree with, which is not rational, which is that 80% of all funds go into pay. But it would go a lot more into the student standard, in research, in scientific research, in some creative activities that higher education institutions need and have to do and do in some ways. And I wouldn't put on a pillar of shame people who work and teach at those universities because they have high wages. They have high wages compared to unfortunately the average but that means raising the average, so they need to raise those salaries that people have in other activities. But I would certainly be against the fact that the total funding of higher education is treated as financing the salaries of people who work there because higher education is much, much more than that and it has to be meaningful, in order to have their own cause, it has to be much more than that. There people can't listen to things that were taught 10, 15 years ago and trust me very often because science, not everywhere, but in many institutions. Here it is said, among other things, that we have 88 higher education institutions to 4.2 million people. This report does not speak or speak, but we need to talk about the quality of that education. Because it is not only a question of how this money is spent in technical terms but it is also a question of how much it invests in quality and who measures this quality of education. What is characteristic of our system of higher education is that it was almost exclusively based on the input, so those famous chieftains were financed or how many students were enrolled. It is seen from this report that in 2014 some attempt was made but very shy and small to take care of the results. So, about how much our great pain is a lot of people enroll and a few people graduate. How many of these graduates, how many graduates, how many eternal students do we have, how many people do we have who fall out of the system at different levels? And that it also becomes one of the criteria or one of the elements based on which high education is financed. However, in order to use this result, to be able to use as one of the funding criteria, we must have an independent external quality assessment. Because it really isn't, it's not the same today where you went to university or where you went to college. I'm not going to mention it to anyone, but every single one of us who's got a little bit of that subject knows right away without asking the average of the grades at all, anything, when someone tells you where he graduated from, at which college he graduated, you know more or less what you're in the mood for. Very rare are the exceptions because the quality of teaching at higher universities is extremely uneven. And of course I think that even this report that has no obligation and cannot be dealt with by that element but it shows that if it is such an unequal regulation or practice as to how this regulation applies and here it is said that compliance with the law is a lapsus linguae. I don't think so. Of course, a colleague noticed that right away. I don't think it's a lapus linguae. This report shows that, in fact, high schools do not respect the law or respect the different elements of different laws. If they hadn't, I wouldn't even have given it to them because the regulation is largely the result of the power relationship between individual institutions, negotiations, and then some rules that are respected in some universities are added to others. However, this regulation, which on the one hand I think is too large and, on the other hand, unclear and enables it to be very significant, very significant in some institutions deviations from it, shows that then the inequality in quality that the student gets for his money or taxpayers' money amongst other things and his or her parents that it is so unequal. So far we have not had protests from students due to poor quality or perhaps even are but very discreet, poor quality of education they receive. But the fact is that in such a large number in such a small country, in such a large number of higher education institutions an external quality evaluation is a prerequisite for both rational financing and introducing these results criteria and not just criteria for how many people you have enrolled in the financing of higher schools or higher education institutions. By external evaluation, I mean really externally, so I mean international evaluation. We are too small to organise this only on the basis of the situation in Croatia, and I think that, in order to do so rationally then, we need to tie it closely to quality control or external quality evaluation at universities and higher universities. Among other things, it's not just a question of education, it's a matter of demographic renewal, it's a question of the economy model that we're going into the future with. I therefore believe that this Parliament's concern is absolutely the most important issue that we can deal with here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3241	Dear colleagues, I apologize for your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3242	Here I go. Thank you, I'm sorry. Let me just say, compared to our 0.8, 0.9% of GDP, say the United States, Canada and Korea invest 2.5% to 2.9% of their GDP, which is more significant than ours in higher education. I thank the State Audit for allowing us to open these topics that are not directly related to this report from 2014 and the club of HNS and HSU will, of course, support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3243	I thank my esteemed colleague Vesni Pusic for this debate. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, I'll set a recess by 3:00 p.m. when we will continue with the replicas after this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3244	Here is my colleague and colleague, the break is over, and we will continue with replication of the presentation of the distinguished representative Pusic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, HSU and the first replica of the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3245	Thank you, Vice President. Since there's no Dr. Pusic, then I'll say it in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3246	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3247	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I just wanted to look back on this claim that the professor's salary is too high compared to the education staff. In fact, employees' salaries are too high in general. They are too high compared to, say, parliamentary representatives. As far as I can see, university professors who come to the Parliament don't take the council's salary, and some college professors get three times as much pay as Parliamentarians. So I find it unwarranted that these salaries are as high as the fact that some professors make their own contracts, pay their advances, and also pay their own loans. It seems that this monster loan was very widespread at the time of the former government. So I think colleges should accept that they live in a particular society that has certain problems and in some way have the wages of an adequate remnant of society as a whole. This leaves the impression that a single caste of professors who therefore live very well while at the same time hearing that students have very big problems and that students are constantly being imposed on at the same time. And this revision also shows that students are sold a whole series of scripts on which there is no record, and I think they should have more courage once and for all to clear that up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3248	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Romic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3249	Thank you very much. I'm sorry there isn't a professor of Parliament attorney, that she's on the board. The distinguished parliamentary representative and professor spoke about the standard of study, i.e. the quality of the educational process. She was talking about the status of the university. We've kind of had a financial audit here. It was also said about that section called their own university incomes. I would just like to comment, unfortunately when you consider that universities in their budget have 90% for material costs, i.e. for wages and material costs, then only a small part of what should go into innovation, development, technology and upgrade. As far as this revision is concerned, I could point out the following, which is when we look at the segment of the years that were in 2009, so in 2014, we can conclude that the university still has shifts, i.e. the whole system is improving. Why do I think he's getting better? I think it's because the system is a little bit neat and built, it's starting to build. If we had a built-up system, then less and less irregularities would be possible. What's very important, and that's their own income and their definition. Our own university incomes can't be generalized and we can't bring them all into the same context, but we can say that large and high universities are a large part of their income money that work precisely from innovation, technology transfer, research projects and these are real own revenues. The parliamentary representative and former Minister Jovanovic said he had tried to sort it out systematically, unfortunately, because he believes it was the Constitutional Court and refused. After that, it was once again tried to redo that rule that was to be fixed. Unfortunately, not a day today he's not made. I mean, at the moment that this system would be arranged to make us function more and more. As for the quality of study, I would just say it is very important for the reason that a large part of my own income ends up raising material status and students and universities. [[Intruder Reiner: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3250	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3251	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since there is no colleague, here comes counterpart Pusic. I would agree with her part of the exhibition where she said it is extremely important to take care of the quality of our higher schools in the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, that quality can be achieved by investing in development. However, one piece of information from this report, from the State Audit, which says that where there are own income funds that are meant for development, it is unfortunately not directed where it should be. So in 2005 the University of Zagreb established a Fund for the Development of the University and its components, in which, in the period until 2009 the university component really paid part of its own revenue to the Development Fund, and these funds were allocated, for example, on the basis of the open competitions in projects that should contribute to the improvement of university work and its components. However, the frantic fact is that at the end of 2014, we actually have 9.5 million kuna in the Development Fund, for which no investment plan has been made, no competitions have been opened and the funds remain unscheduled. I think that really, when there are already such means, it is wrong that where there is a possibility and a formal framework, it is actually a formal legal framework that it is invested in the development of certain components or activities that we simply give up these funds so easily and that we do not take advantage of them if we already have them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3252	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry I'm late because I just ran away from the Foreign Affairs Committee that was scheduled at half past three. So I agree with what my colleague Glasovac said about the use of funds. It is seen from this report that very often the arguments are actually completely incomprehensible. On the one hand, everyone in higher education complains that there is not enough funding, and on the other hand it is argued that they had nothing to invest in or did not know exactly what the funds would be invested in. One problem is that high school institutions understand themselves marginally, or the environment understands them as research and research institutions at the same time. And the emphasis on this topic, therefore, is that forging the scientific part in the scientific and teaching activity opens up a huge space. We're doing a lot of research. It opens up a huge space for not only investing in funds coming from the budget but also investing in the funds of its own income. I am taking this opportunity to say that we are among the countries that have the highest percentage of funding for higher universities in the budget. So there are countries, well some extreme examples of 37% or 35% in the UK are left from their own budgets, it may be extreme and excessive because it means that virtually everything is high tuition, but some balance between what comes from its own income, and what comes from the budget and the university itself gives greater autonomy. On the other hand, it makes it possible to finance what countries can finance and these are scholarships. Scholarships for students who then go to high school institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3254	Thank you very much. We will now move to the next club of representatives, and that is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3255	Thank you, well-respected chairman, representatives of the State Audit Office, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to join the previous speakers who praised the quality and correctly formed report on the financial audit of over 68 higher universities in the Republic of Croatia in 2014. I'll just look back at some points of the report delivered. First of all, I would just like to remind myself that the report itself shows that the total amount of around 4 billion kunas of total revenues of all higher universities over which the audit was carried out in that sum is the most significant revenue, which is precisely revenues from the state budget of 70.1%, while the most significant expenditures account for expenditure on employees, which accounts for around 60% of total expenditures and expenditures. And if we look at the balance sheet a little bit better, then we can see that the total value of the assets of all 68 higher universities was around 8 billion kunas, which is 2.4% higher than at the beginning of the year. While equally compared to the beginning of the same year, the value of non-financial assets has been increased again by 23.6%, including the value of the facility and equipment. As regards the total of the individual opinions expressed in the report, as already stated several times, a total of 34 unconditional and 34 conditional opinions were sent to audit standards, so half of them. In which these 34 higher universities, which expressed their unconditional opinion 21 in the previous audit, had a conditional opinion showing a qualitative shift within which 21 high school had removed irregularities from the previous audit carried out in 2009. And in this circle, they got unconditional opinion. The most frequently mentioned irregularities are already mentioned, I will not repeat them all, so I will list only some of them or those most frequent in some of the areas, and the most frequent ones are therefore visible from the report in outstanding accounts from previous audits in the field of accounting business and in the area of income and expenditure. Of course, if we take a closer look at these non-executive orders from the previous revision of most high-schools whose conditional opinion has been expressed, so 31 out of 34 as irregularities was seen just not performing the orders from the previous audit. And given that the basic objective of carrying out the tasks of the previous audit is aimed precisely at removing identified irregularities in order not to be repeated later in the course of further business, I consider it necessary to point out first and then the responsibility of the body to both universities and higher schools in accordance with Articles 59, 60 and 68. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which is responsible for the exercise of supervision over the legality of higher education operations. When we talk about accounting business, it has already been mentioned on several occasions in most cases that different approaches have been seen to record their own and dedicated incomes, and later in their analysis, where some high-level universities therefore record the revenues from scholarships as their own, while some other higher universities record those same revenues within the framework of dedicated revenues. As stated in the report, such a different approach is the consequence of the lack of a single regulation that regulates criteria and criteria for obtaining and making available their own and dedicated revenues of higher universities. And I must point out, although dealing with my own income in terms of making amends to the 2015 Budget Act are equal to dedicated revenues, however, the distinction between own and dedicated revenues is extremely important because of their proper recording and then real and objective presentation in financial reports. Taking into account another important specificity in high-school operations here, which is a failure of the financial and academic year, so for the financial year a financial report is being drawn up while the academic year is still going on, this type of income from tuition should be distinguished where the criteria for demarcation of this type of income also need to be uniformly uniformly and consistently applied to all higher universities so far this does not happen. And precisely in these two important areas, first and foremost this first area of which I was talking about regulating the criteria and criteria for obtaining and making available their own and dedicated revenues on the basis of a single regulation that would apply equally to all higher schools and this second area, thus equating the criteria for demarcation of revenues from tuition due to non-compliance with academic and budgetary years, opens a space for qualitative improvement and for removing irregularities in this area. The same important space for improving and achieving greater efficiency in the financial business of higher universities has also been achieved in strengthening the internal audit system, and this is the part of the report, which shows that a large number of higher universities in 2014 have also contributed to a statement of fiscal responsibility to confirm the existence of business irregularities, which certainly indicates the need to strengthen the internal control system precisely in order to detect and prevent errors, and then reduce the risks of business and, of course, to pay attention only to the assessment of the functioning of financial management and control systems. It should be recalled that universities have taken over the obligation to carry out internal audits, however, at the time of the audit, so in 2014 the assigned posts in internal audit units have not yet been completed or, in some cases, internal auditors have not yet completed the necessary education. Given that we are now in 2016 to expect that in this area the situation is much better. It has already been noted that on the spending side the most frequent number of irregularities is expressed in the expenditures for employees and in expenditures on work contracts and copyright contracts. I will remind you that the share of expenditure for employees in the total expenditure structure in certain higher schools is more than 80% of total expenditure, and that is a rather worrying situation. And that part is financed mostly from the state budget, less from its own and dedicated revenues, and very, very small from some other sources. And, of course, according to high-school audit findings, a different approach has been observed precisely in the calculation of work above full-time workload, overtime, salary supplements, supplements for increased volume and complexity of work, for success, submitted supplements, etc. and these areas of higher education are governed by internal internal internal acts, and I believe that it is certainly further regulated, and I am stressing the need for a uniform normative arrangement in order to bring these procedures in line with which they would be completely eliminated in some order of this irregularity. When it comes to expenditure on works contracts and copyright contracts, it is also important to remind that their total amount is around 80 million kuna somewhere, which is not small. They are mostly financed from their own and dedicated incomes, they are concluded in different ways and there are quite a number of observed irregularities, precisely in different ways, where different high schools for similar jobs conclude one performance contract, and other copyright contracts. I see again the possibility of removing these irregularities in the formation of a one-signed guideline by a resolute ministry based on the opinion of the State Institute for Intellectual Property, which would affect equal interpretation and implementation of the provisions of the law. In conclusion, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the report on the financial audit carried out by higher schools in 2014. We believe that it gives an objective representation of the financial position and the results of 68 higher schools' operations as they were covered by the revision. Half the unconditional and half the conditional opinions, of course, cannot be a cause of complete satisfaction. The situation, of course, is not great, but I would remind you that between the 34 unconditional opinions expressed 21, the high school managed to remove the shortcomings expressed by the conditional opinions of the previous audit, which is certainly a qualitative shift compared to the year 2009 when it was the last revision. And finally the meaning of the review and it's to make a shift and increase. Furthermore, given that a certain part of the conditional opinions expressed is a consequence of the failure to carry out the tasks of the previous audit, a particular emphasis should be placed on, in particular, the design of mechanisms which would oblige higher universities to timely remove observed irregularities within the time limits set. Of course again, with particular emphasis on the responsibility and responsibility of the body, universities, universities and higher schools for the exercise of supervision of the legality of the business which must certainly be based on the principles of responsible management of financial resources and certainly on the principles of effective financial operations, and I mean the role of administrative councils, Senates of the university, advice of the university, so all bodies involved. In addition, given the identified irregularities in higher universities that have been given conditional opinion in most parts, they arise from shortcomings as has already been pointed out several times by a single normative arrangement in terms of uniform rules which need to regulate clear standards and criteria of conduct. This fact represents one solid basis for the adoption of uniform rules with clearly established criteria, standards and rules, and above all I think of the rule on standards, criteria and method of use and the availability of own dedicated incomes, public higher schools and institutes that should certainly be adopted by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. We have heard of objective circumstances, however, we are here to find the best possible way because this rule is certainly necessary to bring it. And, of course, further attention should be paid to empowering the internal audit system as I have already mentioned before in order to detect and prevent possible errors in time and then reduce the risks of business. In doing so, I place a special emphasis on the self-evaluation of the functioning of the financial management and control system for which it is necessary to ensure at all public, higher universities that the jobs I spoke about and, as well as the appropriate and quality education of the persons in charge of these activities in the internal audit units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3256	Thank you very much. We have one replica and it's the distinguished representative of Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3257	Thank you very much. My colleague Bedeković fully agrees with the majority of the content spoken on behalf of the Club of Representatives and representatives of the HDZ. However, the various practices mentioned are actually mentioned when signing a work contract and authorial contracts that sign various high schools, so for the same jobs, different practices apply which is not good, because this also leads to different taxations and we know what it carries with it and what the revision establishes, in fact we have the right to doubt some of the information presented, in the credibility of certain data presented here. If it's some kind of work that's not an author's work, it's contracted by an author's work, then it's actually not a real display of things. However, what I paid particular attention to on this page 18 says that high school employees have concluded contracts on the work of the greatest work for administrative, technical affairs, teaching, seminars and mentoring. However, the content of the contract shows that the contracts for the work are also concluded for high-school works. Imagine now that there was an official in the ministry and we had such signs in the media that he was making a deal with someone for what should be the ongoing activity of a government body, so they would crucify him on the cross. And here, it's one of 12, 13, 30 things, or irregularities that are taxing very clearly. And we can bring ourselves into a situation like we have the opportunity to see in these 30 and what, 34 high schools that are 5 years ago in conducting a review, so they haven't corrected irregularities in 5 years, it can happen that this kind of practice continues, I'm just saying, in fact, what happens at high schools and that we have to be equally sensitive to law violations or avoiding law enforcement, so if you want to use illegal acts. We have to be equally sensitive to it, regardless of who it was, it was any body of state or public administration, and we don't measure the same thing with two different, two different lengths of elbows.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3258	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3259	I completely agree with you here, so it is very important to highlight and distinguish and know exactly what the deal is about the work and what the contract is about the author's work. If the contract of action is clearly known that an act contract cannot be concluded for transactions that are identical to the one, so those jobs that go through let's call it a job description. It is perfectly clear, completely normal and of course that responsibility lies on the head of every single institution that dares to engage in such work. I still think it is important to draw up a guideline that would further place attention to clear distinction and therefore clearly determine what the contract on the work in which the situations are signed, so concludes, which means the contract on the author's work and within the contract on action, so once again, to point out what it means, so it's not what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3260	Thank you. Now we'd move on to individual debates and she's the right of a respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3261	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy chief auditor, state auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I will try not to repeat what has already been said in a brief debate. Well, here's to start with and I agree that this is one quality report but not only is it a quality report but we have to in some way give recognition to the State Audit, which is despite the fact that out of 88 higher schools is covered by 68, I think you would have assumed that there was no such thing as 20 million kuna revenue. So, you've done one big job since it's not the only job you're doing from the state budget to the budget of units of local self-government and all those agencies and institutions that were founders of any state of any local self-government unit. What we can do, a few points, we can isolate here, so we're talking again about the power of the audit, so your powers are narrowed down, you're warning, and it's still defeating that many who have been, who have received a conditional opinion, have not, even after the re-entry of the audit, removed the shortcomings. The other thing is, what you're warning is a constant and insufficient normative determination. I think that's what my colleague Jovanovic was talking about. Then this also happens that different contracts are concluded for similar jobs and of course there is a problem then because the state budget is being damaged because of the different then tax payments related to it. Third thing, it's not a waste of mentioning the property of high schools. So the word here is as much as you're saying 8, the value of 8 billion kuna. What is inadmissible, therefore, is that any high school or university does not care about this property, does not take measures to rent a business space, in fact to extend the contract or to enter into a contract or to call a tender for the proper conclusion of the contract. So we also have a case here that the state property is not available in an adequate way. The fourth point is public procurement, it can always be the basis for corruption. There's also a grudge here that we have, well, that 200 thousand kuna censorship, so there's no need for public procurement, and then there's limited offers, especially when it comes to bazaar procurement. I think anyone who manages public money must be very careful not to end that public money through certain interests in private pockets in an illegal way. Of course, when it comes to procurement, it must be taken into account that some things that are “legal ” can often be manipulated especially when it comes to expedient procurement. And now at the end of what may have been, which I was encouraged by Dr. Pusic, I answered the line, she wasn't here, but she'll probably hear it now, I think she touched the core of the whole story and her line that she cut into my education, the money invested in education, science is the best money invested. We can all agree on that. Of course, the input parameters when we talk about the number of students who enroll individual studies are not the best measure, perhaps it would be better to measure their turnout or the number of graduates she listed here. But what we also have to look out for, I remember an interview with an American professor who, he was at a private school, asked him how much in the percentage of his degree, actually finished his college of students? So he was amazed at the question. Well, he says a big number, 'cause that's what my job's all about. If a small number passes, I'll get fired because I'm not a good professor. Of course, that's where we're talking about the level of knowledge again. What I would add to Dr. Pusic's statement, not only to measure it, needs to measure the efficiency of a study, but also based on the employability or what these young people, who have the skills and competences to participate in the labour market to get a job as easily as possible or how many of them actually have a chance to get a job? We're something in the Virovitica-Podrava County, here's the dean that just had an exposure, something we were doing in that direction, even the data wasn't so bad. 70% therefore of the state budget, 70% of the funding for higher schools comes from the state budget and 80% comes from the salary. Now we're wondering if it's because there's a little money coming in, and that's why you spend so much on pay? It's certainly a fact, and maybe there's another story, and we're always going back to what's feed back or some kind of feedback, what's actually with the money at the universities themselves doing? How much does it actually invest in innovation, in scientific research, in projects? And whether these scientific research are a project and a basis for some kind of profit in such a single market and all for the purpose of then education of young people to be able to manage the labour market later, in fact, to be more easily involved in the economy, to be able to become entrepreneurs and, ultimately, to ensure what society needs and that is economic development. What should, of course, be kept in mind when it comes to higher education and I have to mention my county and high school project again. We can't do it again, I don't think talking about external evaluation would be good if what happened with the state's graduation was happening. We can't always measure what happens to students or students, we have to measure what happens to the educational institution itself because the goal at the end of education is to get out of young people what's best of them. We don't all have the same abilities or all the same competences or all the same starting points. But what we have to have is an equal chance of success. Therefore, it should be possible for every man to be educated according to his level and his abilities, and then it is important to adapt this evaluation to each community and to each university individually. Here's the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3262	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3263	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A lot has already been said in the debate so far. I'd just like to start over the thesis that our high schools, therefore our 88 higher universities that have more than 4 billion kunas, have a significant impact on society, and part of that impact comes from this financial force of higher universities. If we look at that only, so this revision covers 68 high schools and 20 of them remain outside and when we look at the total income then we see that these, in fact, these high schools that are covered by the revision carry in them 95% of all these financial powers that lie on high schools, and 20 of these other higher schools that are not covered by the revision, they actually have significantly smaller amounts. So when we talk about these 68 higher schools that have slightly more than 14000 employees, which is a significant, availability of significant financial and non-financial assets. So that's 8 billion dollars. When we look at everything that's paid for, it means 2.4 billion for wages, but it's only for employees' salaries. So when we add to that 180 million that are also spent on employees, but also on employees who sign copyright contracts or an act contract, then we see that there's actually a strong amount of I'm going to say that to both human potentials and human resources. But we must not forget, on the other hand, that universities serve to encourage development, to encourage the economy, but we must never lose our minds and students as some kind of users, but as the soul of these universities and future ones, as the intellectual elite and governor of the Republic of Croatia is said. And now we're coming back to that question, which means how much the students' investments are in these institutions themselves and what the return value students get. So just over 800 million kunas that students pay, or contribute to income and income, that is, the revenues of higher schools themselves are not small funds. School fees also showed that more than 60 Croatian students pay tuitions in one way or another, although the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports fully de facto for regular students is filling full scholarships of scholarships. One good part of students still depends on that linear model is somehow forcing me to co-finance my schooling. They're not the only expenses students have. Students must also pay a number of administrative fees, even for that confirmation that you are a student in order to exercise your right to health insurance. And that's what colleges charge for. And what's kind of a key story about this part that's not given, so that's not income from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which is not revenue from the state budget, are your own, or dedicated revenues where we should actually look for an opportunity to raise standards, to reinvest, to improve their activities. And it's actually a sad fact that when we see here, I have nothing against it, of course certain projects that enlarge the work of universities that can't be financed, which are some added value that isn't the standard that's funded by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Of course, these own funds must then be paid by certain employees to rise up at universities, to follow their own developmental visions, in order to have some added value that unfortunately the state cannot guarantee. But it's really not good that most of these revenues actually end up we don't know where. Neither can the State Audit determine where. The competent authorities of higher schools prescribe rules on how they will dispose of funds from their own and dedicated incomes. But what we've seen here is that either these regulations don't stick to them or they don't show them in a real way. Even what they say they're targeting and having some kind of support in the rule that they're targeting employment, paying off some special supplements, paying off funds to work above the norm. In fact, there's no record, there's no evidence that they've agreed on any added value and there's no justification for that. On the other hand, my personal position, I may be a little harsh, but I think it's almost unacceptable that at a time when universities and this lot of funds are getting, regardless of what sources of income are a little bit, it's unacceptable that the funds that are coming from their own incomes are being betrothed to banks not to reinvest in any way. It's amazing to me. It's amazing to me, it's amazing to me that almost a billion kunas lay in 2014 at the end of 2014, or at the end of 2014, on the bank's bank accounts, and that they were armed. It's a piece of information that I find amazing and I don't know how to explain it to both university students and employees, that something that can be used in better working conditions, in more projects, in the life of that university why it lies. Now, not just that. They had the means without the consent of the competent authority, although the statutes prescribed amounts above which they could, to which you can hold funds without the consent of the competent authorities and amounts above which you cannot do so. But what did they do? They kind of pitched them, so they broke them into smaller pieces. Why? To empower them, and to avoid actually obtaining the necessary consent. They were also bewitched by the fact that they had outstanding debts. And these are some things that are simply absurd and regardless of unconditional opinions, I don't think that's good for the development of our universities. Also when we talk about payments of supplements paid without justification, without clear criteria, without records, which vary from 1.4% to 48.4% anywhere are even paid to all employees as permanent monthly allowances. And then normally we have situations like this that some employees have 42,000 kuna per month. Is that normal? Couldn't two additional employees who would work on some projects and bring real added value? These are things that I find hard to justify. And in the end someone said that finance is one part of the life of the university but that the management and development of the university is a much more important topic. Yes, and that is why we are saddened to witness some situations, as a recent plenary of the Faculty of Philosophy for the first time in history under the clear sky, where students simply had no other choice because the student assembly was disbanded because all representatives of the Student Assembly in the Faculty Council were declared unrepresentative, simply had no other choice to fight some illegal activities of the university administration but to express their dissatisfaction at the ceremony. And it is tragic that it actually assists a state body such as the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports whose administrative supervision is called upon by the Senate when it decides to disband the Student Assembly. And on a number of occasions, the question of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports whether administrative supervision is being conducted is not being answered, apparently administrative surveillance has never been brought in. And that is something, so our higher schools are commendable institutions, without them there is no development of the Republic of Croatia, there is no development of the economy but they must by example, by their business, by respecting the law not only financially, but also by running a college show that they are above some dishonest actions, they must be intellectual elites but also the moral verticals of this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3264	Thank you very much. We would then conclude the debate on this point and thus, since many have withdrawn our debates, then we have fulfilled our obligation today. We will continue work tomorrow at 9.30, and as it turns out, half-yearly information on the financial situation comes, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. And of course I remind you at 12:00 tomorrow is the vote as always. Session interrupted at 15.47 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-03-0.u3265	The next item still has the 2014 High School Review Report. The applicant is the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. And in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The 2014 High School Review Report is hereby adopted. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with most votes, 115 for, 3 abstentions and none against the accepted conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
