ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u55	Mr. President, in accordance with Article 225. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the SDP club, are asking for a 10 minute break in order to state our position on the occasion of the Croatian Defence Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u56	Of course. So here we go. Let's round it up. Okay, we also have Mrs. Nada Turinu-Đuric on behalf of the CNS. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u57	On behalf of the HNS Club on the same subject, we're looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u58	Okay. Mrs. Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u59	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, we're also looking for a break, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u60	We got another club that wants to pick up? On behalf of the HDZ Club, I see a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I see customs change. Those who had been nervous about the break for four years, so they declared it some kind of press conference our first session starts with a break. It's only obvious that we think one thing and act when we're in opposition and another when we're in power. But the HDZ Club is looking for a break for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u62	Thank you very much. I'll take a break by 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so here I am going to start with these public figures who are acting high in order to even come to some function must respect the Constitution, the laws of the Republic of Croatia, pay taxes and pay taxes. They must also be transparent completely. We have a Minister of Montenegro case here where no one, but no one, is slowing down his participation in the Homeland War, and in this work and his sacrifice, we thank him, and that part is not even the subject of this case. The events that are disputed are later on the moment the Homeland War ended. We have within one affair practically three affairs and many more unanswered questions. The first is the case that took place in 1999 at the Bus Station when, according to the minister himself, there was a physical accounting between him and two persons in the function of bus drivers. In this connection, the arrest case is linked to the event, i.e. the result of a re-sented search, following the words of Minister Montenegro for the inability to make a subpoena. As we can see, there's been a problem with the residence. Another is the abuse of a widow who is a disabled, single mother with a child with developmental difficulties. That case is still in court. The third case of land allocation in Samobor is based on the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and members of their families. The case raises several questions that only the minister can answer and unfortunately failed to do so. It is also closely related to the evasion of the cut which for the City of Samobor, which does not stand at 0%, and for the City of Zagreb, where the minister really stands at 18%. In this regard, the question arises whether the loan which is intended and obtained for the construction of a family house based on 5 family members, based on the disability of the Ministry of Croatian Defence, is the basis of the law whether it has been spent or not? The question also opens why Mr. Crnoja with a 56 thousand-euro loan received under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences back in 2009 and land obtained by law also from the City of Samobor with a deadline of 3 years to bring him in and purpose did not consume that right until today. If the accusations we've been reading in the media these days are correct, there are a number of questions that I've mentioned here just some. Unfortunately, the minister has not responded precisely to any of them, and that is why we are going to ask for a lack of confidence from the minister in this house. And that's a picture of today's government five days later. The country defends itself with weapons when needed in war, in peace of mind the country defends itself by respecting the Constitution and the law, by paying taxes and cutting taxes, by respecting its citizens, by helping those who have difficulty. The minister has done the opposite by himself, now he's trying to hide behind legal pins and prove in principle what's unproven. I will not mention here the issue of opening the register of Croatian traitors with which the minister went public as the biggest project, the citizens already talked about it and showed their opinion as an absurd and dangerous idea. For all these reasons, because of the need for state officials to be the first to comply with the law, because of responsibility for citizens, the minister who causes insecurity in society with his statements and projects, a minister who is not transparent, a minister who is burdened after only one day of acting with multiple affairs that he did not explain even though he had the opportunity to leave. One who does not comply with the laws of the Republic of Croatia and the laws say that both taxes and taxes must be paid cannot and should not be performed by a state official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u65	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so this government is the fourth day of acting on a duty and during the weekend was literally questioned, questioned by the credibility of the government because of a minister who was quite obviously intent on cheating on the system, cheating on the state, cheating on local self-government by falsifying information, that is, by counterfeiting what is in Croatia mandatory and it is that you actually and truthfully apply to a particular place where you live, or where you live and also report a residence if you have it outside of that place even though it is temporary. The Croatian People's Party, after all the information that we have received mainly from the media but which is all based on documents, believes that the prime minister is on the move that it is not allowed for a minister with such charges and which I say is recorded in some material evidence, through the media we have learned them, that the prime minister is on the move and that the prime minister must ask the defence minister to step down. In fact, I'm not going to convince all of what we read in the media yesterday, but obviously we're learning new information from day to day, so one of the last things that came to us yesterday night was that the Minister of Montenegro actually forged the residence in the previous time. It means that somewhere since 2010, what was visible from the owner's list was defacto fictitious, but reported to be a Samobor residence. And we also know that in 2010, he had problems with neighbors at his real residence in Zagreb. All of this, of course, I hope, will be dealt with by someone who is in this country, the institutions that are in charge of this country. I think we should investigate them like we do every other citizen, and we should all be equal in front of the law and so should the minister. However, what we want to say to the public today and what we want to ask our prime minister who said himself that his will be the first and last word in the government to take a move and to replace the Minister of Montenegro with the basis of these indications for now but which definitely have both a real and practical foothold in the documents that we have knowledge of. We, of course, also raised issues relating to the world-wide view of individual members, individual ministers in the government, which were proposed on Friday. We have not received an adequate response, we have warned that the credibility of the government will be violated because of that. Here, in the meantime, unfortunately, we have and in fact criminal acts that have surfaced in the meantime from individual ministers, sure that all of this together is not good for normal government follow-up. Of course, the government should also address much more important issues such as economic issues and which are certainly in the focus of interest and prime minister. However, in order to start working in a normal way and to deal with the right questions, this government must be primarily fair, transparent and credible in the sense that those people who act most are not frauds or those who have tried to deceive the state. So here I am, finally again, asking that the prime minister, we ask that the Deputy Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister, who is president and party whose member is the Montenegrin minister, make moves. And we are also asking the coalition partners in the Patriot coalition from the MOST gentlemen who during the election campaign swore to justice, transparency and everything else to intervene with their colleagues to do the right thing in this case and to try to at least return a bit of pure face to the new government and that the beginning of this government would not be but at the beginning of a clogged-up one, smudged with a minister who is obviously not worthy of being in the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u67	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the Laburista Club distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u68	I thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm really sorry that here's the first session of this week that started off with a break, but that's why we have a really good reason. And I'm also sorry that after less than five days since the appointment of the new government, a break has been called precisely for conduct, or what has been discovered about a minister. What I'd like to point out is that we can't generalise things, so neither are all of the members of the Government of Ministers of Montenegro, and it's not good to say that the government is totally wrong because that's how I think we're destroying what's good. Public persons, individuals, particularly parliamentary representatives, ministers, those who have sworn to respect both the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia must be an example to all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia. If these things happen, these individuals have to answer. The matter is very simple, it's not about political persecution, it's not about persecution towards the Patriot coalition, it's about members of the Great Coalition, it's not about persecution against the prime minister, it's about the first Deputy Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or any other minister, we're talking about the person who has his name and name, we're talking about the facts that institutions need to investigate. And any controversy about it leads to division, leads to disagreements. I think that Croatian defenders also at this point in the knowledge that a Croatian defender, their minister, worked against the laws, exploited the benefits, received money and did not spend money on purpose, won land for the construction of his family home is not an honor to any Croatian defender who also received it and fairly did what he signed the document to do. Therefore, this rhetoric we experience and which we read in politicians' statements that political persecution is not good. Let's focus on the facts, let's focus on the people who have a name and name, which are specific, let's not generalize things, ask the institutions to examine everything that is stated in the media as a fact and to be informed about it. Let's sanction the people who do it and we'll be able to say we're doing the right thing. If we throw mud in our faces and if we hide behind everyone and behind the government and behind everyone who makes up the Patriot coalition, which makes up most of the Parliament we do extra tensions, we raise extra tensions, we do extra division, and that's not good. I'm talking about facts, we're talking by name and last name, and let those who don't respect the Constitution and those who don't respect the laws. Every man has the right to make mistakes, but the fact is that the ministers, we here in the Croatian Parliament and all public persons in the Republic of Croatia are simply not entitled to these mistakes and we must be aware of that. I really hope that the institutions will do what they need to do as soon as possible, that the Patriot coalition, whose Minister of Montenegro is a member as a minister, as well as coalition partners, will really say loudly not to such people in the government so that we do not violate further what is fragile anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u69	Thank you very much. And now he has a word on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, unfortunately, we began the meeting of the Croatian Parliament today with a break that, by the previous paragraphs and criteria, was not suitable for an opposition that then sought a break because of certain public events that were as disturbing the public or as an indication or reality by writing through the newspaper, happening through courses or everything else. Today, as we can see, there are indications about the alleged dishonest actions of Minister Montenegro, who is a four-day minister in the Croatian government. The criteria by which these indications are served really today cannot believe that the man who showed up yesterday and documented that there is an annex contract on his building of the house and construction site and that, therefore, the annex of the contract had to report his residence in order to ultimately use this land for his final purpose, which is to build a family house for his four children and wife today as a Croatian defender, must give answers to today's Club of Representatives and the Patriot Coalition as well as all of us in the Assembly, we must discuss what is evidently proven and documented. In a series of things that are listed today, no one mentions the documents they showed yesterday, and that is what amazes me that the hack who is after his statements, the hack of all possible and the media, but also the politician referred to him because he asked and said, stressed that he would make a register of traitors. Reliable or unworthy of it will surely or the subject he has announced will be discussed by the Patriot coalition and those who support it, and each one will speak for himself, and will be seen whether it is necessary or not. But it seems to me that it has caused the most tension in society and that it has spurred the witch hunt as well as all this persecution and today's break in the Croatian Parliament so that the Minister of Montenegro will be further blacked out on the basis of the indications. And such indications about the past composition of the government and the very beginning when certain ministers, directors and others were appointed were not to speak but full of cars. I warned that security clearance was one of the moments that should be for every official at the level of the minister, the secretary of state, the assistant, and the director. I emphasized that in the past Parliament, then the current ruling coalition mocked me. Even the law has changed that it is not so necessary, but it needs to be an easier check, not the most extensive one to talk about every man. Today, it is hypocritical when you talk about a man without concrete evidence and checking only on the basis of the information you have read in newspapers, not taking into account evidence, solutions, anexe contracts and everything that follows a man through his life. The difficulties of Croatian defenders are great. Each of them hides a man who has experienced both good and evil through war, the exultation of victory, and eventually experienced what he did not want, and this is what the poor Croatia experienced. These are the moments that we should discuss today, these are the moments we should follow, these are the moments that you have ignored in the past time, and today you are potentialing them to differentiate and persecute a man who was willing to give his life for Croatia. Now, that's really not right, and I can say first of all, respected colleagues and colleagues, take the arguments into your hands, take the solutions, annexes of the contract, the rightful solutions, the judgments and everything else that follows the man as the Croatian defender, today's minister, and then we stop for this pay phone, and in this House let's discuss the arguments, not the indications. The indications today, tomorrow and we'll be looking for if this continues to break for every single person who's being covered up by you co-worker and co-workers in the past when those who run today are calling or speaking in the name of the clubs, say something without arguments. Thank you very much. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u71	Thank you very much. Here's what we've exhausted what the clubs wanted to say at the beginning, so we'd move to point one on our consolidated agenda. A fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u73	Dear Mr President, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a 15-minute recess regarding Mr Croatian Defence Minister Mr Montenegro with the behaviour of the Government and the Prime Minister in this case, and with the fact that this will require, that is to say, a procedure of voting on the trust of the Croatian government member concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u74	Here is now a request from several MPs, the first was a respected representative of Peđa Grbin, requested by a respected representative on behalf of HDZ Ivan Šuker, requested by the esteemed representative, Nancy Tyreli, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u75	We're looking for a 15-minute break on behalf of the HNS Club regarding the same situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u76	All right. We have now, how many clubs did she ask for? So this way, I'm taking a break until 11 o'clock and 50 minutes. ANNOUNCEMENT IN 11.40 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.50 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u78	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we were talking about sins that are being put on the burden of Minister Black, today we don't have to repeat that. But we need to talk about how the Honorable Minister of Montenegro instead of responding to the charges put on him was false, not to say he was lying. The Minister of Montenegro did not tell the truth, for example, that he submitted a request for a building permit. He hasn't told the truth about the apartment since he lived in Samobor, since when and why he's registered at a non-existent address, how he spent his dedicated money, etc. It's just that the fact that he wasn't telling the truth in a democratic state like Canada would be the reason for his shift. And what is the answer of the Croatian Prime Minister? No, he's not here. And we have to ask ourselves today why he's gone, and we have to try to give an answer. He's gone because the prime minister is not independent, because the prime minister is not allowed to do anything without his first vice president, Tomislav Karamark, and that Karamark, who we hear threatens again with some kind of war on the streets, without that Karamark, whose office you're looking after not in the government's office, in the first vice president's office, met for 11 hours. Mr. Oreshkovic, today we speak to the Croatian public, but above all we speak to you. Mr. Oreshković for the MMG you had an hour, for the human questions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia you met 11 hours without reply and results. When the legendary Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau faced extremely difficult decisions in his country, he asked if he would make a decision, he replied, "Just watch me!" Look at me. Mr. Oreshkovic, look up to Pierre Trude, not Tomislav Karamark. Mr. Oreshkovic, if you will not solve the problem of Minister Montenegro, this House, the Croatian Parliament will. As we announced in the SDP yesterday and formally launched the procedure for voting on the confidence of the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Mr Montenegro. Mr. Oreshkovic, prevent your own indignation, prevent your own shame and replace Mr. Crnoj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u79	Thank you very much. In the name of the Labour Club, the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u80	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's really hard here two days in a row to revolve around this thing, to share more what's already more than divided. But the fact that he's very sad is that in two, three days in society, things like this happen that we really thought we'd forgotten and left behind. And in these discussions today, we talk a lot more about divisions than we talk about points that we have on the agenda. We can fight who's been doing what he's done for the past four years and we can fight who did what eight years, 12 years ago, when something started and something started. Where I see the problem in all of this is that we're wasting a terrible lot of time and a terrible lot of hours to establish some legal facts about whether someone has legally received a home number, how they got it, whether they've purposely spent the funds that they've received in the same way that they've had to spend all the other defenders who've got it. Whether he respected contractual obligations with the local self-government unit related to a deadline in which something had to be built in the same way as all other defenders who had concluded the same or similar contracts with other local self-government units had to respect it. But the fundamental question in all of this is moral responsibility. This moral responsibility and that moral responsibility will not assess whether there exists or not by government experts, nor by external experts who have been working here for two days to solve the problem but rather by determining the person, deciding the person and saying whether I am moral or not. I repeat the sentence that I said when I voted with the government, Prime Minister, and it was about this way that it was in the minefield, and these are mines. Who's to blame? All together. Why? Because we've been making mistakes ever since. Because we quickly took not the profession but the like. Because we haven't dealt with individuals enough, their history and what they've been doing. I truly believe the calls I receive in these few days from the defenders that a large number of these defenders are equally disappointed, sad, because the defenders expected the first man of their respective ministry to really have credibility and to be their image and opportunity and to advocate and fight for what they all care about. This is a bad picture, this is a bad message and not getting into all the solutions and all the expertise whether something is good, fair by law or not, I'm calling myself back on moral responsibility. Unfortunately, the rooms of the Ministry of Defense have been blessed, but this blessing obviously has not helped those fundamental Christian values that every Christian has in him to be respected and to say I do not lie, do not steal, do not take, and therefore these rooms can be blessed and I want these blessed rooms to truly be a picture and an opportunity for all of us who are inside and who act in behalf of the defender whose head we are. There will probably be more controversy over all of this, but if there is some sadness of the knowledge that individuals still in our Croatian society, individuals who behave high functions, who should be in the picture and opportunity of everyone else in this picture and opportunity distort it and are not what we expected it to be. We are losing confidence over and over and the question is when are we finally going to go straight and in the way we say we want to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u81	Thank you very much. In the name of the club HSU and Stipe Petrine will speak to the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u82	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I was really thinking when we finally formed a government after 60 days of negotiating that this was behind us. And it's hard for me to talk about this at all but simply, so it's not my topic, but I just have to because in HSU we have our defense forum coming to me, so the members who appear to me on a daily basis and who are appalled by these knowledge that's public. So I can't explain to anyone how it's possible that someone is properly settled, and at the same time they got a loan to build their own house. How come someone got a loan and no bank, no institution checked whether money was spent on purpose? You know, and I was building a house in a residential community in that dark yet, but you know, the bank came to check all the specifications and spending of all the funds and whether those funds were on the site. I can't understand that something can last two, three, four years without anyone checking anything. It's a waste of your efforts to justify this situation, we can simply ask for any justification but they're gone. Secondly, I live in the area, live in Istria when I am not in Zagreb, and Istria is known for its response to mobilization as the best response in the Republic of Croatia. A bunch of people have been freezing on a face-to-face battlefield for months. I don't know any, I've got plenty of them in membership, I've got plenty of them as neighbors, friends, etc. But they had more children than they had proper living space, but they didn't think to ask for bread next to a cake. Orderly or in receipt of retirement or work, they simply felt that they were on the battlefield and were invited to mobilize their duty to the homeland. So I was angry so on the first day of my vacation when I got a call to mobilize, but I left, I didn't get away with any function, not a single story I was with my people, with my then union members. I don't intend to ask for any benefits, or even one for any free treatment, etc. I also have the status of counsel. So let's not ask for rights that don't belong to us, let's not ask for bread next to cake. And I think this needs to be resolved really as my colleague Pedja said, and we need to prove that we are going towards the development of a civilised state, a stable democracy, and that we should stop being shaken by these kinds of affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u83	Thank you. In the name of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative, Ivan Shuker, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I neither intend to defend Mr. Black nor attack him, but my intention here is to talk about the phenomena of this high house. In the previous assembly, opposition representatives could not ask for a break at half past 10 a.m., but had to come at 9:00 a.m. to request a break and bring out certain things as a colleague of the coat of arms has now asked for a break and other colleagues. So we weren't allowed to call the session regularly, but the former president of the Parliament called it some kind of press conference. It's very interesting that today you can do it during the session and then someone says that today is some sort of... time and there was some kind of big democracy. So let me conclude this first part. Whoever wanted to ask for a break on behalf of the club had to come at 9:00 a.m. even though the sessions officially started at half past ten. What worries me, however, is that my SDP colleagues are doing a great job of following up on sessions, so probably Mr. Oreshkovic didn't deliberately hold these meetings in his cabinet yesterday because his predecessor there changed all the windows and put such windows over which he couldn't bug, because obviously he wasn't interested in not hearing what was said. But when it comes to independence, then it's very interesting that someone's over-independence and when he spoke on behalf of the Parliament and everyone else didn't mind. However, we have also witnessed in recent times that many legislative proposals have not been found in this House because someone vetoed it from the coalition. So some things that happen in politics as they please. However, also this context to put the mission of the International Monetary Fund is simply funny because everyone knows that meetings with the IMF, we don't count those working hours, are basically between half an hour and 45 minutes, but I say so. However, what concerns me as a longtime representative in this House is the aggression that has been present for the past ten days in this high house. Aggressivity and labelling. You had a colleague who was well-labeled in a past meeting by a colleague on the same side of the assembly. Some of them have been freed by power, by power, and no one has even found them to be congruent or to apologize. Well, every one of us has a family, has friends, acquaintances, and when someone gets tagged, it's not pleasant for these people. So if there's a fundamental mistake, home education and decency requires that I at least say so well forgive me, I've made a mistake. However, there are many colleagues who have been identified on this side and who have been legally released, no one has even apologized to them. And to finish, I said I had no intention of defending or attacking, because it is simply not the job of a representative in the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues have done what they can do, supported by so many signatures and I don't see what this whole play is about. Either you get an answer to some questions today or tomorrow, if you don't get them in writing if that point is discussed in this high house. However, what has been done since 2003 to 2011 is clearly continued, words are not chosen, time is not chosen, and at the same time when you come to power, then you take the fundamental right of Croatian representatives to speak. Remember the beginning of the session, so when the HDZ Club asked for a break, we were told that the club did not exist, and at the same time it was some committee that also did not have a decision on any mandates. Therefore, because of the public who looks at us, we interpret acts as they are, we don't really interpret them as they are, let's not interpret them as they are, but I repeat, labeling is a very dangerous thing, a very dangerous thing, and don't forget that we all have family and friends and that it's very unfortunate. And always think about what it would be like for you to be attacked in that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u85	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats will speak to the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Shuker always gives creamworth. So I know you like some rhetorical figures to try to turn the story around, but since you've already said this last sentence imagine that's how someone treated you. I will only remind you of you and the public doing everything the opposition has done in the past term to blacken and bring down Minister Jovanovic. So this debate that was held here was an example of an incorrect insinuation where very little was handled by facts and much more politically conditionally told by arguments. So allow me, that's the possibility that the opposition is always in disposition. We are now using it to fix what the government is unable to do on its own. Last Friday, the government of the Republic of Croatia in this House received the biggest loan possible. It's a loan with no leftovers and no interest. And the fact that in six days, this ship will happen and that through it, this loan is leaky, and we didn't believe it either. Although it was clear last Friday that Mr. Blackia was one of the stones that was in office, the current prime minister tied himself around his feet. If that is the case, if the entire public is full of 6 days, each day brings new information which brings both the Government and the Minister of Montenegro but also the prime minister himself into an extremely unpleasant situation, the question arises whether they are able to make decisions or not. So if it takes one 11 hours to discuss whether someone has moral and ethical responsibility, then the question is, how many hours will it take to get around other things much more important for the country, even though this is an extremely important thing because it is some of the principles on which politics must be based. Every official of the state is expected to be honest, honest, and not to be an angel, because such governments in the world do not exist. We're all bloody under the skin and there's no sin-free thing but people who accept such duties are expected to be honest, honest and willing to bear the consequences for everything they've done and for what they've done. So for 5 days, the elements are subdued to the public, I would say even the material evidence that man wasn't telling the truth, that he had deceived not only the prime minister but also the one who proposed him, that he was submitting documents that were not adequate to his arguments that he verbalized, that he had put the entire government in a situation where the whole state was talking about it and that the government was actually a hostage to his own situation. It's not good for any government or for this one of ours. What I'd say is very difficult for the government if it moves from such a position of actually blocked wheels. This situation has shown, among other things, that a triumph made up of the prime minister and the two vice-presidents of the government will be extremely difficult to function because obviously the mechanisms of the agreements are not working but it is a burden that they bear and will have to bear at the time of their duties. Whether it's shorter or full term, we'll see about that. In the neighbouring state, a man who sits in custody is proposed to the minister with full arguments that it is no distraction. Well, God forbid we ever have such a situation as a model or a model. We need to show the highest level of both ethical and moral skills in determining such important things as the appointment of ministers and in one vault where it is expected that what you got from the state, that the subsidized interest you got from the state, so where others pay for you, where you got what many others don't actually have, you actually justified and not abused. The question arises if it has already been brought to this blockade, where the government's headquarters is whether it is on Mark's square or in Sava. And finally, since it is now a modernity to bless all the places, here I have one suggestion, don't call Bishop Kosic to do it for you because he's obviously dysfunctional and now he's dropped his rating because he's done the blessing of the Ministry of Defense who first fell into the black hole. Call anyone else, you'll probably get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u87	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u88	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I think you're a colleague of Beus Richembergh should have been warned because I don't think he has the right to insult high church officials, so he can think of them whatever he wants. But I think you're just... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u89	Please, please, don't throw away.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u90	Let them once again garner their love for the church.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u91	I don't think the Rules of Procedure are directly injured but I also warn my colleague Richembergh but everyone else to stay away from such qualifications, anyone, anyone, any dignitaries of any religion, that's not correct in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u92	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u93	Mr. Vice President, pursuant to Article 248. I am looking for a break from the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats. The occasion is yesterday's unprecedented pressure on the independent regulatory body of the Electronic Media Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u94	Okay. Is there another club? Mr. Cupcake. We've been setting a good break for 15 minutes. Continuing at 11:15. It's 11 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] They reported the sign of the HNS club Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u96	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS club sought a break because of an incredible event that happened yesterday in Zagreb, an open attempt to endanger the rule of law postulate. I will begin by saying, or remind myself, that all MPs, all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, swore an oath to the Constitution and the laws and thus committed themselves to respecting the legal order and protecting the legal order in the Republic of Croatia without any reservation. Yesterday in Zagreb, a large event of dissatisfaction took place in the form of protests turned into a march on the streets of the city where the media participated in about 5,000 participants. The alleged spontaneous protest was organised by Zagreb's HVIDRA with very clear goals, organisation, prepared passwords or messages and with the aim of the Electronic Media Council. I will remind the Electronic Media Council that the law establishes a regulatory body entirely independent of the policy which, by respecting the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament, has imposed a measure temporarily suspending the issuer for 3 days, i.e. the release of the electronic media of the Z1 television channel due to the obligation to report to the State's Law on hate speech, I would also say the spread of panic, the spread of anxiety among citizens. Nothing would be strange or controversial if the protest had been reported, organised, peacefully conducted without the goal of pressuring the state's institutions. But it happened exactly the opposite, yesterday it was actually instrumentalised by a large part of the defence population but also by other protesters, because instead of promoting the idea of the rule of law and the protection of the legal order, instead of all possible ways and from their ranks, they were actually forced to put unprecedented pressure on an independent state institution. In addition to this instrumentalization, it was actually an attempt to employ the ablation of hate speech, not only that, but to absorb an unprecedented pressure on a great religious community, on its leaders. Likewise, it is permitted to personally insult the head of the Council for Electronic Media Mrs Mirjana Rakic, a legendary Croatian journalist who has received a whole series of public recognitions and awards for her work and for her professional engagement throughout the working century. What concerns us is that this meeting was given the legitimacy of our colleague Mr. Tepeš as vice president of the Parliament. It is not disputed and cannot be prevented by any representative in the Croatian Parliament from participating as a citizen at political gatherings and at gatherings of Protestant character. But a meeting aimed at direct pressure on the independent decision-making of the national regulatory authority is not acceptable to parliamentarians. Because in this way it is actually sent a message that what is written in the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the way institutions work, independent bodies, especially these appointed by the Croatian Parliament can be torn down from the street. In this respect, the HNS Club is most strongly protesting against such practices and we ask all colleagues and fellow MPs, all state officials not to participate in this because their task is to safeguard the dignity of the Croatian Parliament as a legislator, as the highest legislative body in the Republic of Croatia whose obligation is to maintain the dignity of the legal framework and the rule of law and the implementation of the laws that we have passed. If any of the rules in this particular case are governed by the law under which the Council for Electronic Media has acted, any assessment of which is not good, there are mechanisms, as well as the obligation of those who think that these amendments are being made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u97	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS and Reformist Club, Honorable Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Madam Vice President, we have voted on the government's confidence in the debate in one way that I, in that brief speech that I had, rated completely missed but also fully understood why it happened. It is simply a continuation of one practice, one sequence that lasts 26 years in Croatia, which is that people who have no opportunities, knowledge, intelligence, are able to offer solutions to the problems of the Croatian future to return to Croatian past, open ideological and all other conflicts only as an alibi for their incompetence. That responds to both the left and the right. Both are passionate about it and again at least to me, and many other Croatian citizens also confirm the fact of poverty and incompetence. The debate in the Croatian Parliament was about whether antifascism was in the Constitution or not antifascism in the Constitution, whether ZAVNOH was something that came from antifascism or not. Answers like this or they're on the verge of respecting common sense. Then I said that this third, a good third that she clearly said we do not want ideology as an alibi for incompetence, we are looking for a change that this third did not want a break from civilization standards, is moving away from ideological wars does not mean moving away from what the world, Europe and Croatia accept as an alphabet, as a minimum, and that I antifascism, condemning totalitarian regimes regardless of red or black and recognising the right to pite and respect the victim. These are the minima around which I assume there is a consensus. Of course, the creation of such a climate continued and gave birth to the following steps of such behavior. Right after that in society, right after that, we have events like this that we're talking about here. We are a game of circumstances, unfortunately this is not a plus for Croatia, the most homogeneous national state in Europe. Okay, I'm personally part of this convincing majority people, but that's why I am deeply aware of the fact that we need to be careful how we treat ourselves very carefully and to safeguard the values of minorities we still have and relationships in society. Whether or not the council should have reacted with sanctions is a council decision, which is why the institution exists. That's unquestionable. But to use this decision to create an atmosphere of fear, sharing, to re-destruct every opportunity to create a positive climate, one positive capital for some changes in this society at the start of a new government, it is certainly not something that can be acceptable to Croatian citizens and not acceptable to them. No one likes fear, no one. People feel bad when they are threatened, and especially all together we must feel bad when the point of the threat is one person with such unquestionable professional, human, whatever height you want as much as Mrs Mirjana Rakic. We can't talk about that at all. Her performance, she was named the best TV journalist, her 40-year-old public scene performance confirms it. It's not a good thing for people to do that. Let's calm down the ball, gather up what little mind and ability we're looking for solutions for this country, not go into ideological divisions and especially not cause fear, it's something that we as Reformists and I personally don't want, we're not going to accept and I can absolutely say that the craziest thing in this whole story is that if the right space thinks it can do something about it, it can't because it has a very thin political base and it just loses them because there's a MOST that can't afford it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u99	Thank you very much. Time. Let's move on with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1081	The first point is - Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2014 The report was submitted by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. It was submitted in accordance with Article 7. Law on Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. You took the materials into the boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the report at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Here you are, a representative of the promoter of the academics Paul Rudan Secretary-General of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1082	Dear Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable Madam Representative, the Honorable Mr. MPs, the Honorable fellow ladies and gentlemen. Let me first, on behalf of all members of the Croatian people's temple of culture and of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, congratulate you on your election in the House of Representatives of our Parliament, the largest institution of our country. Since, in the tradition of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, it is up to the results of their own scientific and artistic work to the Croatian Assembly and to the general public, given that its main tasks are set out in Article 3. The law on the Croatian Academy and Art, as follows, states "The Academy encourages, organises scientific work and advocates the implementation of the results achieved, develops artistic and cultural activities and takes care of Croatian cultural heritage and its affirmation in the world. It publishes the results of scientific research and artistic creation and gives proposals and opinions to improve science and art in areas of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia.". We point out that in 2014 our academy promoted the highest values of the nation, which exceeds every day's ideology and bias. In this report, I will briefly present the results of the work and activities of the members of our academy during 2014 for the period during which the Academy was successful in all fields, in scientific, artistic work, in the work of its classes, institutions and research units, centres and scientific councils, museum-galery units, cabinets, units of professional services, committees and other bodies of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, then at a meeting within the Academy in the work of the administration, presidency and its committees as well as in the publishing activities of our academy. About the part of the activity during 2014 we will highlight only a few of the data we always provide in the annual report, which are comprehensively shown in the 118th book of the Yearbook that has been delivered to you all. 118 years of academy printing its summer paper and this summer paper you have all received is not the work of our academy, this is just a list of the activities of members of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. On 31 December 2014, the Academy had 146 regular members, 133 correspondence members and 88 associates, i.e. On that day, the academy had a total of 367 members. At the regular session, a total of 17 formal sessions and assembly sessions held on 3 April were unanimously accepted reports on the work of the Academy in 2013 and a proposal was also adopted for work for 2014. It's all printed in the previous book of the summer. The 22nd annual session on the occasion of the Academy Day was held on 29 April 2014. April 29th is the day of our academy when, in the inspired speech of Bishop Josip Jurj Strossmayer in front of this High House, he presented to the Croatian Parliament his and his direct need to establish an institution called Academia Scientiarum et artium Slavorum merdionalyum in an educationally abandoned nation called Academia Scientiarum et artium Slavorum – therefore the Southern Slavinalyum. And it's not true to talk about the Yugoslav Academy but at that time about the Academy of Southern Slavs. On 29 April 2014, awards were given to our academics for social sciences, some academics and other colleagues. For social sciences, Dr. Limit, for the area of natural science Dr. Hamzic and Dr. Zebec, for the field of medical science Dr. Petyank, for the philology sciences of Mrs. Prof. Maria Turk, for literature Dr. Botica, for the field of art architects Vinko Penezić and Krešimir Rogina, for the field of musical arts prof. and composer Zoran Juranić, and for the field of technical sciences Davor Romić. I am very pleased that 11 new regular members of the academy, 7 members of the Academy, 16 members of the co-workers were elected in the election session of the Assembly on 13 November 2014 for the next term of office of 4 years, so a new administration was elected on 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2018. For the president, dear colleague Mr. Academyman Zvonko Pusic, for vice presidents, respected academics Jakša Barbić and Velimir Neidhardt, for Secretary-General Paul Rudan, you will have the opportunity to see me here for 3 years behind this pay phone when I present the activities of our academy. I would like to tell you that the Bureau of the Academy held ten sessions in 2014 and nine regular sessions, but also one extraordinary session. At all meetings, exactly, academician Zvonko Kusic, the president of our academy reported what happened during the month. All of this is shown in the yearbook. The presidency also decided to establish and launch a loud Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. We are extremely proud that on 12 May 2014 the Presidency of the Academy brings a statement from the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts about the Croatian ethnic group of Bunjevac and the following content: the Presidency of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts is one of the founding institutions of the Croatian people and of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia whose role and preservation of the identity of the people at the session held on 12 May 2014 brought the following statement: "The Croatian ethnic group of the Bunjevacs is divided into three branches of the Dalmatian-Herzegovacian, Primorje-lic and Podunavski not teasing the rights of individuals to declare their national membership, by origin, history, traditional culture, customs and language of the western Swiss national Corps. The Academy has 8 committees, the Committee for Awards, for cooperation with Croatian universities and scientific institutions, for international cooperation, for the coordination of the work of academic research and museum gallery units, for the restoration and development of arboretum reedno, for the protection of goods from national interest, and the Commission for the definition and promotion of science of national importance, they are also affected by the editorship of the Croatia and Europe, the fifth book of Croatian peoples who believe this year will print their fifth book. The committees are extremely important and I must admit that there has been a very important activity of the Committee on International Cooperation among these committees. We are members of the European Science Foundation which unfortunately ceases to work but therefore our employees are still working in the Committee on the Review of Scientific Activity. They also work in... humanistic science groups. We are also members of the Academy of Europe, the European Science Foundation. Academic Zvonko Kusic is a member of the Management Board of the European Science Foundation. Some of us are members of the Committee on Finance and Audit of the European Science Foundation. I am honored to be representatives of Switzerland, Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia and Croatia in that body. We also work in the community with the Dutch Foundation for Science and the Irish Research Council. In total, we worked together with 27 other World Academys during 2014. One of many important activities is the activity within the EMAN Europe Mediterranean network that means the Academy of Science of Portugal, Spain, France, Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Albania, Greece, Turkey, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, Tunisia and Morocco. And it was about to organize a forum... It means that the entire Mediterranean region's heritage attempt is de facto subject to the potential for the development of these countries. Scholarships from the Zlatko Fund and Joyce Baloković for which the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts proposes candidates and in 2014 was awarded to Croatian citizens for postgraduate studies at Harvard University in the United States. This was received for 2014-2015 by a science doctor, Maja Šoštarić, who attended the postgraduate Study Public, master and public administration at Harvard Kennedy School. There is also a whole series of reconstructions for the particularly developed arboretum in Trieste which is also part of our academy. Academic Vladimir Markovic worked to realise previous year's accepted programmes. In view of the building Ljetnikica Vučetic, then Lice, economic building, etc. In the editorship of the edition of Croatia and Europe, which has otherwise issued four huge volumes from prehistory to the 20th century in the publishing of our Academy together with the School Book. The editors were academic Ivan Supičić and now, in recent years, academician Mislav Ježić. In French and English, these works are also printed. There is also a department for the protection and maintenance of property and cultural goods, I must admit that, as you know, Gliptotheka belongs to the activities of our academy and is part of our academy, so some repairs, emergency and emergency procedures were to be carried out and in the building of Nikola Šubića Zrinski and at the Church of St. Jerome in Arboratum, unfortunately it was all in reduced forms because the financial resources did not allow us to do so. I must draw your attention to the fact that to this day the Academy has printed a total of 6 040 volumes. In 2014, 118 notebooks and 64 publications with the help and support of the Academy Foundation. 12 publications and 5 publications were published on CD Roma but under the auspices of the Academy. The Croatian Science Foundation has also been involved in the financing of works of scientific projects, I must admit that from the proposed 12 projects, only 4 have been accepted and this funding has been accepted in 2014, starting on 1 January 2015. I'm glad my colleague, Dario Vrtenaar, is the chairman of the Croatian Foundation for Science. Our Committee on the Protection of Goods from National Interest, its members are academics Neidhardt, Zelic, Ježić, Smuć, Juračić, Leo Klasinc and Prof. Bozo Skko is also working on the strategy of what should be the work of that committee. As far as academic classes and other units of the academy are concerned, they are actually 9 classes, but this is important to point out, 24 scientific research units, 11 in Zagreb at 16 locations and 13 outside Zagreb. In Bjelovar, Križevci, Osijek, Požega, Split, Varazdin, Vinkovci, Vukovar, Zadar and two in Dubrovnik and two in Rijeka with the area unit in Pula. Then 6 museum gallery units, 18 scientific councils, 22 committees, then Library of Academy and Archive of Academy and Arboratum Tristeno. It's all detailed in our yearbook. In the 14th year, members of the academy received a whole series of different awards. I'd just like to mention some, uh, Science Ivan Golub, a prominent priest and scientist, a correspondence member of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts received the County Prize for Lifetime work of the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County. Then they were awarded a whole series of awards by academics Tomasović, Paljetak, Neidhardt, Paar, Dešpalj, Aralica, Pavicic, Paljetak, Damaška, Senker, Zic-Fuchs, academician Gligo was appointed by a member of the Academy of Europe, Vukicevic, academician Tonko Maroevic received the Vladimir Nazor Award for Lifetime Work for Literature and Mrs. Academywoman Vera Horvat Pintarić received from the president of the Republic the award of the Red Day of Croatia with the image of Ruđera Boskovic. Afterwards, Pečaric, Rukavina, Cambi, Dunja Fališevac, Vlasta Pilizota, Kallay and Cifric are the winners of the state science prize. Academik Stjepan Damjanovic was elected president of Matica Hrvatska in 2014. Then Josip Vaniste received the French award of the Knight of the Order of Art and Literature while Academyman Machiedo won two Italian awards for essay and translation Premio lerili tea and Premio per la culture Mediterraneane. Then Milko Kelemen, Cambi, Pavlicic. Academik Pavle Dešpalj was elected the Honorary Head of the conductor of Zagreb Philharmonic and on 5 December 2014 he was assigned the Plaquet of the City of Varazdin to achieve model successes in the establishment and artistic assistance of the Varazdin Chamber Orchestra in all 20 seasons. Afterwards, colleague Matanović, a member of our academy, academician Matic, academician Pećina, academician Zlatko Bourek is the winner of the prize for the life work of the Croatian Fine Arts Society. And finally, I have to mention academics Victor Zmegač and Boris Senker and Mrs. Irene Vrkljan, who is a letter member of our academy, are the winners of the Cyclops Award, the Book Fair in Istria. As for the staff at the academy. As for the staff at the academy. In 2014, a total of 237 workers and 24 scientific recruits were employed, i.e. 261 employees, according to the structure of 261 academic staff, 91 with academic degrees of science and 7 master of science. 45 employees in museum-gallery, archival and library titles work and 79 employees in professional services. The museum-gallery units of our academy are gliptotheque, cabinet of graphics, Strossmayer's old masters and the Croatian Museum of Architecture. They enriched the activities of a whole series of exhibitions, published books, held concerts, scientific and professional gatherings, presentations, etc. As far as the library of our academy is concerned, the digitalization process has continued. The library also replaces and exchanges all the works of our academy that have been published with a wide range of different institutions in the country and the world. It is particularly important to point out that in 2014 a magnificent exhibition titled "Rječ, plov, picture from the Treasury of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts" was held in cooperation with the Turkish Yunus Emre Institute from 12 May to 31 May. Namely, after the horror that happened with the fantastic library in Sarajevo where many materials or almost all materials from the Oriental collection of Bosnia and Herzegovina were destroyed, our Oriental collection is the only one that is the richest in this area of Europe. And together with Yunus Emre Institute, I am here publicly thanking my fellow Turkish counterparts, we have managed to digitize 2100 volumes of the Oriental collection. The library also maintains a whole series of different exhibitions and is digitized in 2014 200 thousand 560 pages. The Croatian Academy Foundation works in composition, is president of the Academy Neidhardt and members of the Board by the Academy are academics, Strčić, Popović, Kaštelan, Wickerhauser, Novaković, Stamac, Dešpalj and Leo Budin. The head of the foundation, so the one who runs the real foundation is Mrs. Marina Stattle's graduate lawyer. It is important to point out that the Dragutin Tadic Prize Fund, which is issued and awarded by our Academy Foundation, has been awarded a poet's award to the literaryist Miroslav Madjer and two student scholarships each in the amount of 5000 kuna from Mr Stipe Bilić Prcic's donation, has been awarded two support to the best students of Imotski gymnastics each in the amount of 20 000 kuna. I have to tell you about the financial report that it's always a very delicate question. And I'm asking you ladies and gentlemen representatives to help the academy as much as you can. Since 2008, funds from donations have been cut by around 16 million kuna. But under the direction of the new administration of the Academy and under the direction of academics Kusic, we have acted consciously, seriously and responsibly. We've been cutting costs as much as possible and unfortunately we've stayed at a certain loss. This loss, however, was covered by the funds that we had in some way collected until then and thus ended on 31 December 2014 when there were no outstanding obligations from the heading of regular business towards suppliers. In the conclusion of the report, Mr. President, respected members and members of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to point out. Our academy from the day of its establishment until today was one of our fundamental institutions, it was also the temple of culture of Croatian people and of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the temple of science, art, rhetoric and creativity. Our Academy and last year 2014, knowingly, seriously and responsibly carried out the task given to it by the Croatian Parliament in 1861, which we clearly showed the results achieved during 2014. You'll hear the same thing sometime in May when I file a report for 2015. But in 2014 350 events were held at the Academy, with 108 scientific meetings, symposiums, schools, consultations and round tables, 11 assembly meetings, 17 event sessions, awards and concerts, 29 delegation visits and events from the field of institutional and international cooperation, 63 lectures, 56 book presentations, press conferences, presentations and screenings of films, 64 exhibitions, and two unfortunately memorials of the deceased members. During 2014, a total of 118 notebooks, various publications were published in the Academy: 26 books, 22 journals, 41 volume magazines, 17 catalogues of exhibitions, 3 books of abstracts, 1 volume of dictionaries, 5 partitions and 3 monuments of our deceased academics. The foundation supported 64 publications, while the academics outside the academy published 46 more books, our members of the co-workers 9, the letter members of one book, and the employees of the academy two, making 58 books published outside the academy. In addition to these published headlines, ladies and gentlemen, it is a total of 590 events even a few during one day. We are rightly proud of our joint work and thanks to the efforts of all the members of the Academy, we have opened our institution to the public, to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is recognized. During Open Door Days, more than 7,000 of our citizens visited the academy. With our work we represented the highest criteria of quality and freedom of scientific and artistic creation, we encouraged and promoted scientific, cultural and economic progress, relying primarily on the recognition of the creative and moral authority of our members. That's why our academy used to cry out in 2014 with a pure flame of intellectual and moral conscience. I ask you ladies and gentlemen MPs to accept the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2014. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1083	Thank you, dear academic Rudan. We have one replica, that distinguished representative of Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1084	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, I congratulate academic Rudan on a report that I will, of course, fully support. I will quote the last few of your sentences: "HAZU is the temple of culture, science, art, rhetoric and creativity, moral and intellectual verticals of the Croatian homeland." So, in his opening speech, our prime minister quoted Patton, a well-known anti-fascist general, as saying, "Accept the challenge." And then I told him that I expected the second line of Patton to be respected, which is very clear, and he said, "There's only one kind of discipline perfect, perfect discipline." I expect, of course, from their current ministers. So let me, on the basis of your final sentence, intellectual, moral verticals, temple of culture, rhetoric and creativity, quote now again for the third time General Patton. I quote, "If you've shed your blood for this country, so you can charge for it later, tell me how much that love costs to pay for it and buy shit from here. Go where your country can be bought for money." It's a finished quote. As a Croatian defender in '91. Not '95. Or '99. I have the full right to quote General Patton, and I hope that in this term of office we will remember the famous examples of him from which we all, and we Parliamentarians, can learn a lot. Thank you very much, Mr. academic Rudan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1085	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to ask if the committee reporter would like to take the floor? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of Mrs. Gordana Rusak's board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1086	Mr. President of the Academy, Reiner, colleagues and colleagues. It is an extraordinary honor for me to show on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture about the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, the intellectual and cultural feathers of this society. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the meeting held on 26 and 27 January 2016. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2014 presented to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Act 10 April 2015. The Committee shall comply with the provisions of Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the issue as a parent working body. In the discussion, the members of the committee unanimously supported the 2014 Academy's work report and was positively assessed by the work of the Academy which is visible through a number of activities, such as numerous participations of members of the Academy in international institutions, the work of academic committees and classes in publishing activities and many other activities. It also praised the work of the Cooperation Committee with Croatian universities and scientific institutes and the involvement of the Academy in the development of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy. The topic of discussion was to strengthen the role of the media or communication programmes of the Academy. After the discussion, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2014. And finally to thank Mr. Academyman Rudan for this exhaustive report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1087	Thank you very much to the board president. I'm opening a debate. The first line will be on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1088	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary-General of the Academy Rudan, colleagues and colleagues. It is rarely when MPs receive one Report on the work of the body or what is spoken of on 1400 pages if I do not cheat on how much this report is contained in the summer paper of the Academy. However, it was obtained by representatives of the previous assembly and not by those who are, we who are here today. What perhaps only for an introduction worth reminding of these figures that academic Rudan also presented here is 350 events, i.e. 108 scientific gatherings, 118 books, publications in over 50,000 copies. It is only part of over 6,000 volumes published and published by the academy in its work so far. About one network, the European Network of Academys, about a network of scientific institutions and universities in which the Academy participates as the leading and most respected scientific institution. All of this is a production of slightly less than 400 regular or correspondence members, or co-workers of the academy. The question is, in fact, yes, it is still to be said that this report has not only accepted the Academy but also accepted the Ministry of Science, it has accepted even the previous committee of these calls on it to actually question the purpose of this debate and this way of working to accept this report. What exactly do we accept? I don't think that the Parliament should assume this ingenuity to assess scientific production, to underestimate the scientific production of the Academy. On the other hand, it is also obvious from this elemental data that the amount of financial resources allocated from the budget, which is somewhere around 74 or 75% of these 70 million with which the Academy and the Academy Institutes are financed, is clearly covered. So I might suggest here that we maybe open up, take this opportunity and see how meaningful it is to post a festum to discuss some things. Today we are discussing the 2014 Report and we will probably discuss it in due course for 2015. But it's something that's behind us and we just need to keep in mind. It would be much more instructive, in my opinion, to discuss, if not in the Assembly and in the committees, the proposal of the Academy's work plan with the aim of harmonising scientific production with the strategic goals of Croatia's development, with plans of the government's work so that this scientific production is a basis for better legal proposals and laws because, as you know, we simply do not have in our Rules of Procedure, and it is not the government's obligation to give an analysis of the situation for which or for which individual laws are passed. When it was in the last session of the Rules of Procedure debate, I suggested that the obligation be made that the law could not come into debate unless there was an analysis of the situation, it was rejected and it was said that quite simply an assessment of the existing state of affairs why some law was passed. This assessment of the situation, I won't always say it, or I won't say it often, but it's still not rare to bring it on the basis of personal impressions or personal experiences which simply isn't enough and isn't good enough. On the other hand, we also have a reason for this approach in one of the facts that has somehow distanced the academy from the fundamental function that Strosmayer also advocated in 1861 to be a temple of culture and science simply because in the 21st century the book is no longer a basic medium of communication. And the academy de facto communicates with the public through its scientific production, which is books and magazines. To us, if we want to put this scientific production for the purpose of overall social development, then we should ask that link for scientific production to be in the function of strategic objectives and overall social development of Croatia, and this compound can be ensured right here through the Parliament in a way that proposals and plans of the Academy's work are discussed previously on the relevant committees so that these analyses can be the basis for passing laws in a longer or shorter period of time, i.e. for judgment in factography, for which or for which certain laws and legal provisions should be amended. In that sense, the Honorable President and the Academy, I apologize, there has been a change to the President of the Parliament that has announced that it should be discussed how to modernise or change certain rules of conduct in the Assembly, and I think, on the basis of this example, and we will be, too, discussing some other such reports, that it is a good turn pattern, not to discuss them... but to discuss their programmes previously, so that the purpose is to bring scientific production into line with strategic development objectives. Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the HDZ Club will support this report fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1089	Thank you. One replicated representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1090	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman, I imitate your idea and I agree with you when you say that the academy should be involved in social processes, in social change, in the aftermath of our society, our policy. Some of the academics are also prominent politicians and our President of the Parliament, but I would like to draw your attention to something else, which is that I believe that the Academy is already participating and is actively involved in this precisely, so the academy is part of our society, it cannot be excluded from it, and I think it is an immeasurable contribution from the Academy precisely in the creation of a strategy of science, education and technology. So the academy has been working on guidelines, the members of the academy are still actively involved in the process and discussions on the implementation of the strategy, since the adoption of the strategy, the modeling of the strategy. And I think that's exactly what her contribution is. So this is every example of how the academy is involved and should be involved in social flows that I will talk about more in the debate, but I certainly support your thesis that the academy should be an active factor both in the changes and in the processes that are happening in our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1091	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't say at any point that the academy doesn't have that function that it doesn't already work for the public, but I was talking about changing communication patterns. Simply today, if we are to say and generalise so that we can tighten things up a little bit, today's parliamentary parties or all parties have deprived themselves of intellectual elites or links to intellectual elites, not in the sense of individuals, but in what they represent in society. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is the most respected scientific institution, and it would be normal for it to also be participated with its scientific production and attitudes in all scientific, in all legislative projects or in the good part of the legal projects so that these projects are per difolt if you want to be an integral subject of non-political decisions because science is not for this, but to be the basis of an analysis of the existing situation. That was the point of this intervention, and since we're witnessing how these communication patterns change terribly quickly, we today have no way of involving scientific production here. On the other hand, it is illusory to expect the ministers, members of the government or MPs in the Assembly to read the annual production or to be able to monitor the annual production of the Academy because they have no time for it, nor are we all qualified to do so. It is therefore necessary to adapt this production to the basic task of the Croatian Parliament, or in the preparation of these laws in the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1093	Thank you. Next is Mr. Honorable Representative Veljko Kajtazi on behalf of the Club... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1094	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected secretary-general of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, respected colleagues and colleagues. Before I begin my presentation on the HAZU report, given that today we are marking the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims, as a representative of the national minorities and the peoples who were killed in World War II, I would like to highlight and remind myself of a few facts. In addition to the other minorities and peoples I represent who were also victims of terror and violence in the '40s, I point out that I represent both the Jewish and the Roma national minorities in the Republic of Croatia who have been particularly injured in our premises. Holocaust to the so-called. The NDH was unfortunately part of the movement, the systematic extermination of the Roma and the Jewish people, who launched Nazi Germany and which the Ustasha authorities were very effective in entering our premises. The racist policy against Roma and Jews that resulted in a systematic program and the decimation of these peoples in these areas is something we must remember not to repeat. We do not need to engage in unnecessary discussions about the past and analysis because there are other institutions for this. However, we must in no way give up marking the victims, indigenous national minorities of Croatian society. The Croatian Parliament as an institution certainly takes the place where the suffering of these peoples is recognised and stands out as one of the fundamental values on which our entire political system is based. In this regard, the Croatian Parliament also recognised on 12 December 2014 the International Day of Remembrance of Roma Holocaust victims, which we mark every year on 2 August at the location of the village of Ustica near Jasenovac. The location of this special camp for Roma who were particularly brutally killed and as a people destroyed in once abandoned, unmarked and unarranged cemeteries and now is properly arranged and thousands of Roma and their friends are gathered every year as representatives of the highest institutions. August 2nd and today's date are part of that same marking, but unfortunately they need to be separated. I say, unfortunately, because it's all about the launch of a special day of memory of the Roma victims of the Holocaust, there's no talking about the Roma death. Deeper analyses and reasons why this was forgotten genocide I leave to the academic community and representatives of the institution I will now talk about, which has already recognised the contemporary position of the Roma national minority in the Republic of Croatia as the subject of my research interest. In addition to us is the report on the work of HAZU for 2014. I'm sorry we haven't discussed the report in 2015 but we've been on the report since last year. In 2014, 350 events were held in the HAZU. I am pleased to see that the academy has concluded that it has been successful in its activities and has maintained all activities without major problems. But what I miss in 2014 is what we achieved in 2015. I would like to highlight this opportunity to emphasise that only in 2015 was the first international scientific conference to be held that dealt exclusively with the position of a recognised national minority in our society of the Roma National Minority. Unfortunately, only last year the Roma theme on the big door entered the academy by holding an international scientific conference "The position of Roma in the Republic of Croatia, language, culture and literature". This initiative was supported without reservation by the representatives of the Academy, Academy President Zvonko Kusic, academic secretary Paul Rudan, along with other staff of the Academy and professors from the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb. Support in organization... It also provides the Roma Alliance in the Republic of Croatia Kali Sara as a roof Roma association in the Republic of Croatia for which I thank them, and I hope that the cooperation between the Roma community and HAZU will continue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also hope that, at some reasonable time, we will have the first member of the Roma National Minority Academy, which, unfortunately, is not the case so far. We mentioned the meeting was successfully organised and it included the Roma community and representatives of the Roma national minority at local levels for the first time in history. The Academy has therefore shown that the institution of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that it promotes values written in our Constitution in the fullest sense. She showed words and partly that the Academy door was open to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In earlier years, there have been talks about how the academy is a closed institution, an institution with which ordinary citizens are not overly connected. On the other hand, whenever the opportunity was, however, the academy opened its rich work to the public. It was during Museum Night or Open Door Day. Or by opening up to it new areas such as research into contemporary Roma issues and the position of the Roma national minority in Croatian society. I especially thank President Kusic and Secretary of the Academy Rudan for that. The gathering I mentioned was held as part of the World Roma Day celebration on November 4th and the next day, about 2,000 people gathered at the central marking of this meeting, which is a huge number for the Roma community, bearing in mind that only about 17,000 Roma are official in the Republic of Croatia. If you take real estimates to live in the Republic of Croatia from 40 to 45000 Roma, and in this context this number of 2000 shows that the Roma community attaches great importance to its holidays. The Roma holidays are in the past session of the parliament to recognise the vast majority of the votes of MPs in this House of Commons. I hope that the trend in supporting the Roma community and the Roma holidays will continue during the term of office of this new government and the meeting of this assembly. On these foundations, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts also took part in this process and proved as I have already said that it is the institution of all citizens. Since the Academy's report proves its successful work, I must say that I have learned firsthand that the implementation of such gatherings is not easy to do regardless of the existence of goodwill. The Academy as well as many other scientific and cultural institutions do not have sufficient resources for a fully successful work. I must point out that it is very important for all of us here to look back on this fact when we will soon vote on the budget of the Republic of Croatia in this High House. I am taking this opportunity to stress that there is no economic progress unless society progresses as a society of knowledge. It is necessary that institutions such as the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts are covered by these reform plans of recovery, and that, with the necessary reorganisation of spending, as much resources as possible to the work of academic, scientific and educational institutions in our country, especially those that show and prove by their work that they are truly national institutions, that the institutions of all citizens of this country as the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts does successfully. As a representative of as many as 12 national minorities, I will advocate that minority themes are explored and analysed as much as possible except for the Roma national minority and other minorities in the Republic of Croatia who have their own tradition, culture and make up the wealth of this society. Unfortunately, lately, the position of national minorities and even our constitutional law has been questioned because minorities are often seen as a burden of this society, as some external factor that should reduce social role and importance. Researching minority topics and getting to know the public with the history of the national minority that are intertwined, that is, part of Croatian history must be a priority that will also support the new Government of the Republic of Croatia. It must be a priority for those of us who are working here as parliamentary representatives. At the very end, I repeat and call on all my colleagues to confirm this report to the Academy and to support the work of this institution in every way during the coming period. As a club of national minorities and a club of the Croatian People's Party will anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1095	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the SDP, the esteemed representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1097	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, colleagues and colleagues, I am always pleased to have the opportunity to discuss in the Croatian Assembly the second oldest institution of Croatian people and would dare to say Croatian states, which is precisely the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. I am very pleased when our second oldest institution addresses the oldest institution of the Croatian people, which is precisely the Croatian Parliament. By reading the Yearbook for 2014 and reviewing this summary report that we received on the benches, we can determine that 2014 was a year rich in events and another successful year recorded in the rich and praiseworthy history of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Both Mr Rudan and colleagues before me spoke about how many events, as many as 350 different events, were financed by scientific projects, 2728 different types of works, publications, copyright books, editorial books, scientific papers, etc. It came out of the rich publishing activity of our academy. So, the Chronicles is as comprehensive and thorough as ever. Leticia as always shows a cut of our academy's work, and it's always proud of us who read it here, but I also trust the honorary members of the academy to our academics and academics. I could talk for a very long time about HAZU's work but three things I would especially point out, some of them were encouraged and debated colleagues before me, and that's what we discussed earlier when we talked about the academy's work that was a project to open the academy to the public. So an open door project was launched at the academy. I am pleased to think of it as something successful, so the activities of the academy as well as the treasures of the academy are approaching the public. To inform our students about the work of the Academy, to learn about the cultural and historical treasures that the Academy keeps, which is very important here in Zagreb, where we have the Strossmayer Collection, where we also have the Archive of the Academy and everything else that preserves the great and artistic treasure but also the historical structure that uses our historians. I would point out in particular the Institute in Zagreb as an example of good openness to the public because I also had the opportunity to participate as a member of the County Assembly, but also as an interested citizen who really invests a lot of energy in this precisely to popularise the work of the Academy, to make the work of the Academy visible and that our citizens, therefore, who have no daily contact or do not deal with science, are able to see how immeasurable they are in fact the contribution of the Academy to our social life. So I can agree with some colleagues when they say that the academy needs to get more involved in social events, but I think that's the first step towards this, and that's meeting citizens and the public what the academy is doing. Another thing I would particularly like to point out is the involvement of the academy in the discussion of the redesign of scientific, higher education, secondary and primary education systems. I think the academy's contribution was immeasurable. First of all, the fact that the Academy has just been working on a document that we have called guidelines for the development of the Strategy for Education of Science and Technology, but of course their work and their suggestions continue to be appreciated when drawing up the strategy itself, but of course the implementation of the strategy and that is what I expect from the Academy. So the Co-operation Committee with Croatian universities and scientific institutes in 2014 how to read from the report deals mainly with these topics, and I would especially like to thank all academics and academics who participated in this particular segment because I believe that this is one of the most important processes started in the mandate of the last government and most important for Croatia as a whole. Because we're even talking when the respected academic Rudan talked about the motives that encouraged Strossmayer to start an academy on the founding of the Academy of Science and Arts is exactly what we said then, as he said at the time that one nation was schoolly lagging, not sufficiently enlightened, that he needed one such institution. And that is why I expect to continue to participate actively in this institution, which is also imagined among other things and with this vision in articulating and working on strategy and implementation. I hope that we have absorbed the debate that the strategy, i.e. the curricular reform of education, is going on and there are no further doubts. The third thing I would particularly like to point out is to promote, highlight the role of the founders of the academy, but also one great match that was owed by the Croatian people, us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament as well as all citizens, and the academy itself is its founder, Josip Juraj Strossmayer. I had the honour of attending the 200 years of birth and 110 years of death of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek, and I would like to point out once again and thank the institution in Osijek and especially academic Antun Tuck, who has put a great deal of effort into that. I think we often forget what kind of man we had in Strossmayer who had a vision but also the energy to spend that vision from the academy itself, from education and everything else he did for Croatia and the Croatian Society of the 19th century and the early 20th century. Well, I'd dare say we feel his influence today. And I'm very glad that one of the goals and institutions in Osijek as well as the academy as such is promoting exactly his work and action, and I thank them for that, and in that they have my personal heartfelt support. When we talk about finances and the financial report as academic Rudan said, the academy is a part of society, it cannot be exculpated and isolated from the events and developments that occur in society. And in 2014, economics wasn't the brightest. This, unfortunately, has been reflected in both the academy and its business, however, the losses that have been achieved, they are covered by the carry-over surpluses of past years so that there is no problem. But what should especially be pointed out is that all suppliers are paid. I think it's a very good message and our most important institutions in science and art. However, the trends change in 2015 record economic recovery, economic growth, so I believe that in 2015 and the financial part of the academy will look better when we discuss this report. Congratulations and academic Rudan, but also our academy on another successful year, on another yearbook we are proud of, and of course this report cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1098	One replica, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1099	I would refer to these words of Mr. Hajdukovic, who, in any case, would do well to repeat them when he spoke of Strossmayer. Strossmayer is actually a synonym for HAZU. It's a man who lived only five years in the 20th century but I would argue that it's actually a man of the 20th century. Because these messages of his are so powerful that they are still very current today, and this is a good opportunity to perhaps remind ourselves a little, to return to his sense of enlightenment and knowledge, of sacrifice to his own people and also of openness to the world. Because Strossmayer was just that, a patriot but also a great man of Europeans. And I'm afraid we miss patriotism and turn to Europe. Because we both have each other, but I'm afraid the wrong way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1100	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. The first came from Mr. Honorable Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished secretary general of the Academy of Rudan, colleagues and colleagues. This somewhere seems to me to be the eighth report I have in front of me, and I can truly say that it feels year after year that the academy has a growing shift in its work especially under the direction of academics Pusic and his right-hand man, Mr Rudan. Much of it was said by counterpart Hajdukovic, so I will shorten my debate. What I want to say further today, because I think it deserves me to mention it in the assembly, and it's also on track how the academic Rudan ended effectively, that the academy is the flame of moral, intellectual conscience. So here is the pleasure of today when we discuss the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts with one news that will travel around the world today, which is that Croatia no longer fits into corrupt countries. I think it is appropriate to say this with a debate on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, because the Transparency International Index has been published by which Croatia jumped from 61st to 50th place, i.e. improved by 3 points from 48 to 51 and no longer counted in corrupt countries. That's great news. It's another legacy left by the last government. It is great news because even when it comes to gross domestic product it depends heavily on the corruption perception index and only one point means better conditions for the business of the company and the world that monitor what is happening in Croatia. And this is also one of the visions of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which says that Croatian society, the society of science and science, and the mission is to include Croatian science in European and world science flows by constantly encouraging and systematically increasing investment from the state budget and other sources in research and development of science, and to care for Croatian cultural heritage and its affirmation in the world as essential factors of spiritual, economic, political and universal progress in Croatia. Almost this vision and mission of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts should be taken by our parliamentary representatives as our own vision and mission. What I particularly want to say when it comes to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is that it is the basis in these turbulent times of rapid change and that the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts contributes to the consensus on strategic national goals, with the care of all the fundamental values on which human society rests, and what we have heard on several occasions today, especially when it comes to freedom and what freedom of speech is, and what hate speech is. I also want to quote another part of the Academy because it also fits the current state of the Croatian society, which is that the role of the Academy is gathering, mobilising, leading and presenting scientific, professional and artistic elites in all areas, and conducting analyses and evaluations on all important national issues in the country. One of the important roles of the academy is to preserve the identity of promoting unity, and against the division of the nation on any basis. And of course, the academy is a guarantee of the stability and unity of the nation and of one of the greatest constants of society, and should be recognised as a reference place that provides the nation with one reliable approach to all challenges in society, but not on a daily political basis. So, the emphasis is that it's not on a daily-political basis, and even when a change of government happens then the attitude of the academy could be one starting point that prevents the hate speech we're facing these days. Also, what is particularly important is what was said in the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and what counterpart Hajdukovic was saying, which is the participation and participation of the Academy in considering the development of education, science and technology in Croatia precisely because the Academy is a guarantee of the stability of continuity. Governments pass, the academy remains, and I will remind you once again that one of the main tasks, roles and jobs done by the academics of the Croatian Academy in 2014 was to create a Strategy for Education, Science and Technology, which I especially thank the Academy of Rudan, which is that the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts has developed guidelines for the development of the Strategy for Education of Science and Technology and thus hit the foundation of the precisely consensus. So from the Academy it is the consensus for the development of education, science and technology and the academy that will preserve that really the topic in this Croatian Parliament and in Croatian society about which there must be a consensus without ideology and political bickering on a daily basis is just education and science. We heard on several occasions, and that's really a special credit I said, I've read the last eight years of the current academy leadership report. These are "Open Door Days" which are a major event and where many from young to old are familiar with what the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts is doing. And I will end up with the youngest Croatian Academy of Science and Arts institute that particularly promotes everything the academy does. It's an institution in the river. Since I'm a Riverain, I feel the need to commend the academy for making that decision. This decision was taken on 19 December 2013 by the Institute of Clinical and Transplantation Immunology and Molecular Medicine of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in Rijeka under the leadership of academics Daniel Rukavina who actually did that that Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts has connected in one city everything that ensures that we have development and education and science and all values in society, which is that this institution gathers in one place everything that is most progressive when it comes to science and from the city of Rijeka and from the Primor-Gorski County and University. In just one year, although the youngest did a whole series of very attractive and tribune counsellings, which in 2014 were 4, in 2015 continued with far greater activity even, there were as many as 7, but we will talk about it when the work report for 2015. Therefore, for this debate, I would like to thank Mr Rudan and the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts leadership for everything they do, and I hope that some very, very high-quality experts who are not yet members of the academy in recent elections will ensure that the academy works even better. These people live both in Croatia and abroad and are some of the biggest experts who may be candidates for the Nobel Prize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1102	It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here in this debate I would like to refer actually to this report and to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, on this yearbook which has been attached to us here. I must say that for many decades, the development of the Croatian state and Croatian democracy since the 1990s, we have had so-called. academic silence. Unfortunately, there was not enough reaction to events in society, there is not enough today, although I have seen progress since academics Zvonko Kusic led the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. There was not enough or late reaction to the robbery of conversion and privatisation, to the emigration of Croatian citizens in recent years, as well as to the gradual entry into debt slavery. You mentioned here a statement about the Bunjevci that I read a few days ago as part of the preparation, but we need much more statements, much more memoranda, praise or criticism from the Croatian intellectual elite, so please tell your colleagues when you return to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts that the country's youth expects much stronger social engagement on all social issues, in particular we expect from the class of social sciences. Don't take it as an attack, take it as a constructive criticism, take it after all as a warning. Don't go under the Croatian stars. In a sign that I say protest over everything I've said The Living Wall will not support your 2014 report. I hope that for 2015 it will, it depends on your engagement in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1104	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative of Ladislav Ilcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear academic. I'll support this report even though I have some questions. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts has since the age of Strossmayer or Franjo Račko was one of the consciences of Croatian society. I mention these two names, more specifically I will say Bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer and priest or canonist Franjo Rački, underlining this very fact that the priest or bishop were the promoters of the Croatian Academy or the Southern Slavic, as you said the Academy of Science and Art because today many in Croatian society, and some in this Assembly are trying to make a sign of the contradiction between science and religion, which is not only theoretically and intellectually incorrectly incorrect but represents one civilizational setback, because history is not only because of these two greats but also because Ruđer Boskovic clearly showed that religion and science can go together. When I talk about the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and the Consciousness of Croatian Society, I am actually interested in what you as an academy think about, that is, how do you see the position of the Academy in Croatian society today? I have to say, we've heard a lot of praises now but on the side of the previous government about how great the academy is, how it's involved in something or not involved. I know that, for example, a representative of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts was once a permanent member of the Croatian Council, which is not the case today. I say all of this not because of you or because of your goodwill but because of how we as the Croatian Parliament should be set up, or whether other social factors or state factors have made it possible for HAZU to have that place in Croatian society that I think it should have. I'm not going to get into who's on the HRT Council now, how it came to be under that law. We'll have a debate sometime I hope about the HRT's work report. But this is just one of the examples that I believe the HAZU is not positioned in that place in the Croatian society where it should be. I repeat, not your fault, but perhaps the very guilt of the Croatian Parliament. Likewise, we have heard the often called academics whenever they show some of their valuable attitude that they are thus losing their scientific neutrality which I also consider a major blow to freedom and the breadth of an intellectual sphere that should be held by the Croatian Academy of Science and Art. So, we need HAZU, we need more active participation not only in the media presence of the larger ones that my colleagues talked about, and what I think we have a consensus on. In fact, I must say that I am pleased when my colleagues from the SDP or the Labourist speak positively about Bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer and I believe that this consensus is also about some Christian values and about the contributions that Christian values and Christian people have for the Croatian people should really have a consensus. So I would like to hear from you, so not so much that we talk about what we think all HAZU should be more strongly represented in Croatian society. Here's what I'd like to hear from you. We've heard a lot of commendations. Let's just say I didn't hear from you if you were so happy with the role of the academy in curicula reform, especially during Minister Jovanovic. Many academics objected precisely because they were not represented enough. I think the Secretary of the Navy fixed it up a little bit. But right now, anyway, I'm interested in the whole thing, it's just one example when we talk about the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, but I'm interested in other ministries. So, I would like to see along with this report or next year's report if it is not possible for your proposals and on the basis of what Mr. Tudjman said, or some suggestions from your side, so that it is possible to position HAZU better in Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1106	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1107	I would like to thank Mr Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary-General of the Academy Rudan, dear colleagues and colleagues, and I would like to join the representatives who have praised the work of the Academy in this reporting period for 2014. Indeed, it is also from Letopis and reports from the Academy that shows how rich, fruitful, successful the work of the Academy of which Professor Tudjman spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club and whose grades I fully join. However, this is not only why I answered the word and debate to praise the work of the Academy, but also to highlight the work of the Scientific Council for the Scientific Research of the Adriatic, which was included in this Chronicles and whose work I was observing at that time and as president of the Assembly Committee for Environmental and Nature Protection. In 2014 the Scientific Council for Scientific Research of the Adriatic Sea held a round table on the topic of tourist construction in Maloston Bay in the area of Mali Stone and Mali Mora, Maloston Bay and the Small Sea in Dubrovnik Neretva County, which wanted to give the round table their scientific access to possible Adriatic pollution by building a tourist complex in Maloston Bay. This debate and this round table took place within the framework of the amendments and the addition of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County spatial plan, and, by the same time, be told by this day, for two years since the maintenance of the round table, no spatial plan of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County has been adopted, and not even that change, which was assessed by the committee as harmful to the possible impact on the maintenance of the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea, particularly the Maloston Bay and the Small Sea. And I fully support the scientific council's position. I'm saying he's welcome to the Council of the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvania who will decide and be commended for it. However, what I came forward for is the fact that this year 2014 was a priority when it came to the scientific research of the Adriatic, determined, determined by one harmful illegal, not transparent procedure of the Croatian government, which launched a public tender for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. I was then in the name of the HDZ Club and submitted to this Assembly an interpretation of the role of the Government in this illegal and non-transparent procedure which we have proven and demonstrated and I am convinced and proved that this procedure was both illegal and non-transparent and harmful to the national interests of Croatian society and Croatian state. This interpretation was then rejected, but I am glad that the epilogue and the whole process ended exactly as the HDZ Club in its interpretation and indicated, which is to put an end to all the activities of this I say harmful, non-transparent and illegal procedure of the Croatian government which opened a public tender for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. After all, the new government, as we heard from the Croatian Prime Minister Mr. Oreshkovic, said in this term that he would establish a moratorium on further activities regarding the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, and I believe that this competition is not as it was called, I say it was not even supposed to be called and should have contained wherever and where more sensitivity for possible haemataria in the Adriatic Sea would practically destroy that biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea, that I do not say what it would mean for tourism as a major economic branch in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I must say that I was surprised when the Scientific Council for Natural Scientific Research of the Adriatic debated a segment of tourism construction in Maloston Bay, whose construction would have had a minor impact on the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea, so if you want the Maloston Bay and at the same time in that year, which I said was primarily determined by one harmful attempt to exploit and explore hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, this same scientific council did not take place. I must say that we also have parliamentary representatives and, above all, the Croatian Government and the Resolute Ministry of Economy, which this process was conducted, would be very welcome to discuss in the highest Croatian scientific institution, as the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts has discussed precisely this project that I have said and I repeat in my opinion was harmful. Because if the scientific council is right, and I support this debate I say the possible impact of building a small hotel complex on the Adriatic, then it is to be expected that this same scientific council of the most Croatian scientific institutions will be engaged in this work which is also the project why, as I said, the results of such a round table, a study or any other product which was made by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in the section relating to the project’s obvious would be very useful. In this sense, I particularly support what Mr Tudjman said that for a better assessment of the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and contributes us as parliamentary representatives in the evaluation of the work why I say that it is a great work and independent of this observation of the work of the scientific council in a work in which it has not done something and I support what it has done, I think that we could better and better appreciate the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts because I believe that then the role of academics in the social life of Croatia and in the development of Croatia as a demotical state would be very large, because we, as representatives, could then use all those publications that are here... about them and which we are commending, but which in the work of the parliamentary representatives would certainly and possibly, more importantly, also in the work of the Ministry or Government of the Republic of Croatia, give even greater influence. So here in this sense I will conclude, with the support of what you have said, I must say that, however, from that scientific council at that time when I was dealing with a more minor topic in the part-line of my work, which was in charge of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which did not contribute to this scientific council, and what we are doing with this more important aspect of the project, which, fortunately, is the aspect of the project, which has, indeed, been stopped in the term of the Government and what this government has set out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1108	Thank you. We have two replicas. First distinguished representative, Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1109	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear academician Rudan. I use the replica as a form of participation in my colleague Bačić's debate because the theme of the Adriatic was encouraging to me. Since we are today discussing the Report of the Academy, the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts and unfortunately our colleagues have all discussed what happened, we are discussing the past. And I'd be interested in the academy when we don't have a university to show that there's a lot more knowledge and science in the academy and courage than in politics and political parties, which is clearly not really controversial. So I wish the academy had come out today, about the issue of the Adriatic, what are world trends, what is happening in the world in this area because I, as a representative, really can't discuss it properly and I have to decide. That's why I expect the academy to turn more towards designing, that is, researching development directions than we've been through and who's been involved. That's not bad, but it won't make any progress. We will always, which is also natural, distinguish and diverge around the past. But we must seek consensus in the future. And the academy is certainly an institution, and even if we could get a university community that could have a much greater impact on public opinion formation than parties that have a completely different and logical particular interest. That's why I, I'm sure I'll support it, I'll vote for this report, but it seems to me it would be good, so that the tensions in society will decrease if the academy comes out with its own independent views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1110	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MP, it's nice to have my exposure used to direct a few words to the Secretary General of the Academy, but I would also use this replica to answer you as much as I can what you asked from the Academy. I, as a parliamentary representative, am precisely on the trail of what you said in the previous term if we are talking about protecting the Adriatic Seas, asked that the Croatian Parliament, before any discussion of the public tender for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, should ask us as parliamentary representatives, or the government that is obliged to carry out any of the projects in the Assembly before the adoption of a discussion on certain strategies such as the Strategy for the Management of the Sea and the Coastal Area, such as the Strategy for the Management of Mineral Raw materials, such as the adoption of a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia, which the documents should have been the basis of the Government to then go into the process of the exploitation and exploration of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. If we had done so, it would have probably been those tensions that you cited both inter-party and social tensions that the government has caused with such a project that would certainly have been reduced. In this sense, it is clear that the contribution of the Academy to the adoption of these strategies, which are nevertheless primarily and primarily in charge of parliamentary representatives, would have been great and invaluable that the academy was also involved in the adoption of such documents which are still under the obligation of the Croatian Assembly and of us as representatives, but I agree with you that the academy is when making such documents if it were included to bring more quality documents. But responsibility is at the assembly of the Parliament and that of the previous meeting which did not bring such documents, which is why it was then clearly and such a project that caused opposition in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1112	Thank you. Second Replic, Honorary Representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a good thing that colleague Bačić mentioned the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, this is another example of Mr Rudan where the Academy of Science and Art should have engaged much more strongly. This is about one project that would destroy and destroy how poets and our Adriatic Sea wrote. And the document that was going to be implemented, that strategy was so full of wrong scientific data, I would say even the apocryphal that, because I had the chance to be on the Environment Committee about a year ago, the representatives of the Environmental Protection Agency were threatened by representatives of the Oceanographic Institute, if you had been involved, you would not have gone so far and come all the way here. So you are the immune system of Croatian society, you should know what is right and what should be rejected. Therefore, we expect a much bigger engagement from you, please as soon as possible and the more or the more we will disappear as a subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1114	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Sincic, the responsibility for this project is not at the academy. The Academy has completely other obligations that it carried out during 2014 so you may not have finished reading but the material is large and large so it is not easy to read. The Scientific Council of the Oil and Gas Academy held a discussion on the round table on the same year and on December 1st, the round table was on the subject of "The process of researching the exploitation and justification of oil and gas exploitation at large depths. In the context of this debate, the Council also discussed the Security Act for the Coastal Research of Hydrocarbons, which this Parliament adopted in July last year. However, there was no word on that round table about all those dangers that threaten the Croatian Adriatic, research, exploitation of hydrocarbons in the way that was discussed I said from the Scientific Council for Natural and Scientific Research of the Adriatic, and in that part, the Academy could still say what I had originally said to contribute more to the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1116	Thank you. Finally, academic Paul Rudan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1117	... I really thank all those who took part in the debate. [[Specially enabled.]] I especially thank Mrs. Professor. Rusak, presidents of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, who studied our work report in 2014 very closely with all committee members. I also thank my colleagues Ostojić, Tudjman, Kajtazi, Hajdukovic, Jovanovic, Sinčić, Ilčić, Bačić and Leki. I'd like to say something to some people, though. I was impressed by my colleague Sincic, saying that the academy should plead stronger on certain issues, so I will only tell my colleagues that the academy has made its statements clear in its own way. A statement by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts on the occasion of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former SFRY in the case of Gotovina, Markac. A statement by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts on the occasion of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former SFRY in the case of Prlic and others. Declaration by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts on the judgment of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former SFRY in the case Gotovina – Markac – Cermak. A statement by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts on the Croatian ethnic group of Bunjevac. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts' stance on Serbian philology. Declaration by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts on the monitoring of the implementation of the reform of education. Declaration by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts on events in St. Mark, etc. etc. This is all on our page, and we were even the first before the Parliament and before the government, we said some things. Therefore, we are very well standing on the defender of the identity of all Croatian citizens and battles for our equality and for our survival in these areas of Europe. I am saying this because Strossmayer and his good genius Rački clearly understood that we South Slavic peoples, and especially the Croatian people, are under great influence and danger from the uplifting of Hungarian Hungarian, Austrian German, Italian Italian, and several times Serbian at the time. And Strossmayer is on the trail of what the Enlightenment has brought to these places, and even the spirit of freedom, brotherhood and equality, but equality in rights, the spirit of the rights of citizens and of man also blew our spaces in the 19th century. But I must tell you that Strossmayer said, "By protest to freedom, because the only enlightened people are free people." So what you said about faith and science, I have to tell you, 44 years ago, I studied at my doctoral study in Paris, biological anthropology, and a professor from Spain named Ožija came and spoke a fantastic lecture on Australians and evolution. I didn't know why my old French professor was asking what the Catholic Church thought about it. Later I learned that Professor Ožije is Jesuit, a Jesuit professor at Madrid University, but he answered us all who were in the auditorium. Faith and religion have problems, and science has problems. Let's not mix them up. As for the esteemed colleague Tudjman, I am pleased that he said that Croatia, i.e. representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, would support the Academy's 2014 work report and referred to the necessary analysis of the existing situation. Given what counterpart Bačić said, I will now also look back on how 18 scientific councils operate at the Academy. You were involved in the work of one. These are scientific councils: for crystallography, the Scientific Council for Remote Research, the Scientific Council for Oil and Gas, the Scientific Council for Transport, the Scientific Council for Maritime Affairs, the Scientific Council for Energy, the Scientific Council for Agriculture and Forestry, the Scientific Council for Economic Research and the Croatian Economy, for Natural and Scientific Research of the Adriatic, for Technological Development, for Peace and Human Rights, for State Administration, Justice and Rule of Law, for Tourism, for Construction, Reconstruction and Development, for Nature Protection, for Anthropology Research. I'm very happy here because I act in it. For the research structure of Croatia's infrastructure, for theatre, film, radio and television, and two committees on people's life and customs, and for the coordination of the work of the Academy's scientific and research and museum-gallery units. In these scientific councils, the best experts from the economy and from universities from all over Croatia are involved in the work in order to reach certain solutions. These solutions exist. I have to draw attention to you that in the last few years, and based on the processing of certain subjects that are extremely important to our society, especially for our judiciary, we have maintained a whole series of stands and everything that has been presented there not only by the members of the academy but by experts of all possible profiles from all our fields of activity we have published the book immediately. These are the books of the following titles: "The Strategy for the Reform of the Judicial System", "The Reform of the Croatian State Administration", "The National Programme of Anti-Corruption", "The Reform of Administrative Judiciary and Administrative Procedure", "The Reform of Legal Education", "Modernisation of Croatian Real Rights", "The Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the limit of sovereignty and affirmation of statehood", "The Civil and Legal Responsibility in Medicine", "The Croatian State and Administration, the State and the Perspectives", "The Croatian Constitutional Participation of the Republic of the Lat and the Delegation of Ferend", "The New Croatian Local and Regional Self-Government", "The 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia", "The Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Referral of Democracy", "The Republic of Croatia in the EU", "The Constitution of Croatia", "The Constitution of Local and the Foreign and the Foreign Affairs of the Croatian Law of the Law of the Croatian Law of the Croatian Law in the Croatian Law", "The Law and the Law of the Law of the Croatian Law of the Law of the Croatian Law, "The Law and the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic", "The Republic of Croatia", "The Republic of Croatia", "The Republic of Croatia", "The Republic of Croatia", "The Republic of Croatia", "The Republic of the Republic of Croatia", "The Republic of the Republic of Croatia", "The Republic of Croatia", "The Republic of Croatia", "The Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia", "The Croatian Justice of Croatia", "The Croatian Justice of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia", 29 books are located in the library of the Croatian Parliament. In each of these books, 5 to 6 are individual chapters related to these very problems. My colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think the academy has justified its action. But she needs to read. And as for the holocaust of the esteemed and dear colleague of Keatazi is gone, I'm sorry he's not here. It is a shame what happened to the Roma people, what happened to the Jewish people, what happened to the Serbian people, what happened to the Croatian people and to all the other people in World War II. I'll only let you know that on September 4, 2015, the comments came out in Friday: "That we would be such a people who would not be ashamed of the evil that was committed in his name." In 1969, emigrant Vinko Nikolic spoke by commenting on Jasenovac. If that's what they said, then they can be proud that the academy has given its opinion as well. On the proposal of the class for social science in 1996, which was a member of the Academy of Arts, Franjo Tuđman, the first president of the Republic of Croatia, was proposed one piece, this book by Mr. Dr. Branka Dubravica for the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts Award and on the proposal of that class where he was an academic, Franjo Tuđman Academy awarded the work "The Army of Antifascist Croatia '41-'45." And no one can tell the Croatian people that we are not among the magnificent winners of the evil that once ruled the world. Thus, the academy always knew how to speak clearly and take its stand. I would only like to thank my colleague, Pecnik, not Pečnik, because Pečnik is a Slovenian name, and Pecnik is of Croatian origin. I heard that on the board yesterday, and thank you, colleague, for actually teaching me that way. And in my 74th year of life, a man should learn. But thank you for mentioning Strossmayer's patriotism. Patriotism is very, very important, but Strossmayer mentioned patriotism and patriotism. We who are representatives of the human race must know that we are also patriots because we love our country but we are also patriots because we love our family, which is the Croatian people or all the other peoples who live in this country. And that's why I'm glad you brought it up because you encouraged me to say that Strossmayer spoke of patriotism and patriotism. And finally, I thank you all for having the opportunity to suffer me for a few hours now, I can say almost two hours. I'll see you soon, I hope at the academy. Because at the academy at 6:00 p.m. Friday, it starts with a big "Night Museum" event. This year the "Night of Museums" in Zagreb is actually dedicated to Josip Jurj Strossmayer but it will be an honor to invite you all, each and every single person to the open days of the Academy that will be in April or May somewhere. When we first opened the door to the academy a few years ago, I have to admit, I had a beautiful, beautiful thing happen to me. An old lady came by, looked at her and cried in my study. She said, "This is the first time I've ever been, I've been here for years and years and I didn't know what we had. God protect you.". If my dead mom heard that, she'd be happy. It was very nice to meet you. And I'd like to tell you in the end that poor people who don't respect their institutions, who themselves or allow others to relativize their own system of values and identities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1118	Thank you very much. There is also a replica on the final presentation of academics Rudan, and this is the distinguished representative Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1119	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I would say in the end that the voice of the academy is clear and articulated. The only question is how much we want to hear that voice. Well, colleagues and colleagues are up to us to hear and read and act in that direction. And when can we do that? The moment we raise education and education above all party interests and above all ideologies. It's the only way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1120	Thank you very much. So here's what we'd like to conclude with that, is the debate on this first point today. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we'd like to join the vote. First we will join the vote on the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2014. The report is submitted by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 120 119 for and one against. Therefore, I find that most of the votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1123	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed guests and guests, gentlemen and ladies of the MPs and MPs, I will only briefly highlight some details about the work of the centre. You have received a brief report on the work of our center, it is more widely published on the website and there is a detailed description of each book and all of our performances and titles that we presented in 2014. It was about finance, I'll repeat what I repeat every year we're part of the system, I won't complain much, we can work. Every year we get less and less income, but I repeat, that's what the fate of all institutions in culture is, and I wish it could change. What's a burning problem we're about to have is that they're storage rooms where the material is being delayed so that we should think about it. I want to say that we continue to carry out our activities in accordance with the strategy. We were founded in 2005 relatively with a small time-out since the end of the Homeland War. Of course, during such a small period of time, there were not many of those who were involved in the Homeland War in a scientific way and virtually from the very beginning in the centre’s work strategy were the training of people who worked to get the doctors of science from history on the issues of the Homeland War. Thanks to the Ministry of Culture and, above all, to the own revenues that the centre has achieved, we have managed to allocate funds by the end of 2014, for the six doctors of science who were doctored on topics from the Homeland War, there are five colleagues who are in the process. All of them, I repeat, have chosen the issue of the Homeland War for topics, and I think it is very important to highlight it. Of the activities we were subject to, he would point out that the process in The Hague was then under way, the process of Croatia's lawsuit against Serbia, and that our centre with the material it has and it is mainly the material of the Serbian implementation played a significant role to justify proof of who the aggressor is and where all the crimes were committed. And I can say in Article 426 of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which made it clear that Serbia or the leadership of Serbia and Serbs in Croatia are responsible for the war in Croatia because of attempts to create an ethnically homogeneous state. I can say that this decision is well based on the material that came from our center. What the Croatian Parliament would ask is that a little more attention should be paid to the issue that is still current, a question that is not only dependent on the fate of the six Croats who are currently in The Hague, nor on the fate of only their families, but also on the fate of Croats in the BIH, so here I would say the future of Croatia is also the position and role of Croatia and Croats in the BIH during the Homeland War. We have a second-degree ruling ahead of us on this. And I'd like to ask you to help bring one such centre to life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was founded a few years ago, unfortunately there are barely five permanent employees and in this way we will not be able to pair up that literature that is currently distributed in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the centres that were founded long ago from Sarajevo and Banja Luka have been working in similar centres since 92 and have more than 30 employees. And I think it's one very serious thing that Croatia should help. Our center can't cover the whole area on its own. I'd like to report on the actuality that we've been working for many years on the victim list. It's a very serious list that shouldn't have any mistakes. I'd like to report that the list of dead defenders is almost at the end, that we have a slightly bigger problem with the civilian list. There's a checklist at the Home Office right now. And I would like to stress in particular that we have a very well-ordered list of people killed in the occupied territory of the Republic of Croatia, it is about members of the Serbian army and the Krajina and civilians who died from direct action during the Homeland War. It's currently 6203 people on the list, in our center's database. I hope that this list will be over soon, when I say don't take my word for it, it can be in three months, it can be in a year, it depends on the dynamics that we'll be able to verify the data on civilian victims related to this list, which is currently, I repeat at the Ministry of the Interior. I'd like to thank you for this in all our co-workers, all the scientific institutions and associations they're working with us. I would also like to especially thank our emigrants from Australia and Canada who are helping us in our work. And for the end of the speciality, I would just like to point out that in December 2014, together with colleagues from the Croatian Institute of History, we had the opportunity to present the battle for Vukovar at the Warsaw Uprising Museum in Poland where we held a tribune titled "Towns of Fighters", the stands related to cities that suffered over the 20th century in wars. And that stands to say that it's been visited very well, and we also have good feedback from people who listened to these shows there, they were mostly students. We've even heard from some of them, and they've chosen the works on the subject of "The Battle of Vukovar." And I think it's one of the ways in which in a scientifically justified way the history of the Homeland War can be presented beyond the homeland. The organiser of the stands or co-organizer was our embassy in Warsaw with Mrs. Andrej Bekic. Here I would like in this opening part so much, I wanted to highlight some details, so if I have to answer some questions after the presentation of the club representatives I would be very happy to answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1124	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to call if the committee's rapporteurs would like to take the floor? And before, I'm sorry, we had one replica of the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1125	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Nazor, I am pleased that you in your opening section have actually raised a few questions to be discussed in this House. I'm glad you mentioned the Documentation Centre in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And when we talk about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and help, this may be one of the crucial assistance we must give to our brothers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because unfortunately, in the State Archives of the Republic of Croatia, we let people from Sarajevo, from Banja Luka, scratch and dig, while the question is how much help we have given in the defence of 6 people in The Hague from representatives of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let us also not forget the structural changes of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre that took place over the past 4 years. And maybe if some of the things that you mentioned here were investigated earlier, and if the data were published earlier, maybe that debate about presenting members of the government would look different in this House of Commons. And when we look at those reported for today's debate, then we'll see who's interested in the truth about the Homeland War and who's in the interest of having this debate finished as soon as possible and completed at a professional, scientific level and that it's real data and not to bid with the victims how it fits then it's practically all clear to everyone but I say the other day was very convenient to discredit and attack Mr Hasanbegovic. And today we don't want to talk about Homeland War material.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1126	Thank you very much. Here on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1127	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. With the same respect as in the case of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, I will show myself about the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 1st session held on 26 and 27 January 2016. Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2014 which is in line with the provisions of Article 9. The Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War delivered to the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War by act of 21 September 2015. The Committee shall be based on Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this report as a parent working body. In the discussion, the Committee members praised the work of the Centre for 2014 and, in particular, in that section relating to the work of the Department of Archive materials and the activities related to the publishing activity of the Centre. Also from the scientific and research aspect is a positive assessment of the work of the centre that raises awareness of the value of the Homeland War. Accordingly, with the aim of raising knowledge of the role and importance of the Homeland War, a position has been expressed which should be more present at school institutions at the level of the Republic of Croatia. The subject of the debate was also the financial resources of the centre which, in the opinion of the board members, are currently not satisfactory. A position has been taken, support by board members for their increase has been expressed. After the discussion, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1128	Thank you very much. In the name of the War Veterans Committee, the word now stands for Honorable Representative Miodrag Demo.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1129	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. At its first session on 27 January 2016, the War Veterans Committee discussed the report on the work of the Memorial Documentary Centre of Homeland War 2014 and the president of the Croatian National Assembly on 21 September delivered the report. The Committee held the discussion as a parent working body in accordance with Article 91(1) of the basic Regulation. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee did not discuss the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the act in question. In the committee's discussion, the committee members were unique in supporting the work of the centre and the report in the work of 2014, and it was stressed that the basic task of the centre was to spread the truth about the Homeland War itself and the defenders. The funds intended for the work of the centre should be increased in that form that Memorial Centre, i.e. and his leadership is doing uninterrupted and without the difficulties that are coming along, and especially now what's going on in our center down in Mostar where the conditions of work of the centre are difficult. How do we know ourselves because there's a lot going on down there right now about The Hague so we can increase the resources for the work center that was founded in Mostar. The centre has only helped with 10,000 kunas of the Mostar Marking Centre and should make additional efforts to help it do its best and to bring together and help our people who are currently defending themselves in The Hague and other institutions. After the discussion, the Committee decided unanimously with 8 votes to accept the proposed Croatian Parliament's next conclusion of the 2014 Memorial Documentary Centre Report. I would also point out that this is the first session of the Veterans Committee, and the next session we will work intensively on all other points proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1130	Thank you very much. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Zdravko Ronko has raised or is that some kind of mistake? ... And then good. [[You can't hear it.]] That's how I was marked, so forgive me for that. Then we'll start arguing. And the first to debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives Bandic Milan 365 parties of labour and solidarity and representatives of the national minority Ermina Lekaj poljaskaj and Vladimir Bilek again reported to the distinguished representative Miodrag Demo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1131	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The debate on our report I think that according to the law and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian National Assembly, the Report on the Memorial-Documentation Centre is indeed thorough, clear and loud. That's what I say again, I repeat, increase the tendency, i.e. finance from gentlemen from the centre, i.e. A memorial-documentation centre headed by Mr. Nazor who is doing it neatly and who is really promoting the truth about the Homeland War as it should be. And this institution has to revive even better and we need to support even more with some 2 million and 924 500.28 kuna with expenditures of 2 million 798 485 at least increase further by some sufficient means if allowed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's budget. As we have heard from the lady of the previous, a colleague of the representative who has previously exposed, that we must all help each other finally, finally, the truth about the Homeland War is in one place and to preserve the values of the Homeland War in one place, which is our center, the Memorial-documentation centre headed by Mr. Dr. Nazor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1132	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, a respected representative, Jaroslav Pecnik, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1133	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me say immediately that we at the club, that we at the Labour Club have decided to support this report. But since I'm a member of this parent committee, it seems to me it would be good to say a few words and point to certain problems that can be useful if they're being accepted. First of all, I would argue that it is really trying to boost the financial support of the centre and what has been said here about the Mostar office, because indeed the centre has to cooperate will not by nature work with similar institutions throughout the former Yugoslavia where the war was waged. And as much as I think assistance to Mostar would be good. This opportunity should be stressed that this support could be given by the Ministry of Defence and Croats outside Croatia, diaspora, yes. In the end, we heard it was done. But it should also be mentioned here, that's what I heard on the board, that by the decision of Minister Matic, the work of the centre is how to say assisted by half a million kuna. It's not big money, but in any case, it means there's a good intention to do something about it. When we talk about the center, the centre certainly plays a scientific and research role first, it needs to determine scientific facts and when we have some facts then decent people don't argue about the facts. They can be discussed, but they don't argue over the facts. However, the fact is that more issues about the Homeland War still record a number of ideological, social, national recommendations and tensions and so much I think that the centre's work could help in this very sense. Not only does it calm down social tension in society but we are aware that we need to calm down and relations in the defence population. I'm talking about what I saw and heard in Vukovar recently when the president of the Republic of Croatia was in Vukovar and when there was actually a big misunderstanding among the Vukovar defenders. I will only quote it this way according to the memory of Mr. Toth's word of one of the war commanders of the Vukovar defense who said that, in fact, to the question of why there is no "cheese" of Santakovic and Mr. Little Hawk, Borkovic, he replied, so we constantly argue about who's a bigger hero, who's smarter, who's made a bigger contribution and we actually forget about some people who really mattered in that whole story. Which doesn't mean the others weren't important, of course. In that sense, I think that the work of the centre could also help to avoid such struggles and finally start to talk rationally about it. I think we should also point out how to help the work of the centre, i.e. expand, complement, strengthen research projects. It seems to me that the role, the contribution of national minorities in the Homeland War, would be more convenient to explore more closely, which does not mean that everything I'm saying and is not already present, but it seems to me that this should certainly be strengthened. Of course, I'm not just saying this because I don't know the role of Italians, Slovaks, Czechs, but primarily because of the role of Serbs in the Homeland War because we often witness any inappropriate statements and a good part of that population living in Croatia took part in the Homeland War and of course he's not comfortable listening to any words that are often at the level of the incident. Also, because there were talks about how to present the Homeland War in schools? The centre could also help find the right measure to represent the Homeland War in schools. When I say the right measures, that means that, of course, you don't marginalize at any price, but I don't even know how to exaggerate because anything excessively imposed and at least the topic of the Homeland War can be counterproductive. I'd just like to warn you about the former system. In the former system you had some smart-ass come up with to introduce objects ideological, Marxism, etc. And you actually had people listening to that and of course you raised those who were actually against it. Because as soon as something goes wrong, there's resistance. That's what you had before World War II on religion. There was never more atheists than when you introduced religious science as a mandatory subject. Of course, that's where I'm talking about my opinion that you don't have to agree with. And it would also be good to think about what the link is then, because today is January 27th, the Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust, of the victims of the Holocaust, to see what is the link between the Homeland War and antifascism. Because antifascism assumes anti-Semitism. We will say that in our society there is no anti-Semitism but anti-Semitism I would remind you of the words Umberta Eco often changes its forms, its forms. Of course you have here a famous position of Paul Landway, a famous Hungarian journalist and researcher who speaks of anti-Semitism without Jews. So it doesn't have to be just a Jew in the focus of anti-Semitism because it's one form, one form of behavior that actually requires the elimination of one another because it's different, because it's supposed to be racially inappropriate to certain criteria, etc. So in that sense, I think the role of this center is significant. But I'd just like to take a brief look at the relationship between the centre and civil society. This relationship began well, and somehow he began to whisper now at a certain time. Since I've been an activist in civil society for many years, the civil sector, NGOs, I couldn't agree with Mr. Nazor's statement that it's hard to work with NGOs who aren't interested in facts. Of course, it's hard working with those associations that aren't interested in facts. But what is the criterion of interest in facts, or what is the criterion of us assessing whether someone is interested or not? My impression is not, I'm talking at least about these NGOs that are respectable and that certainly have some role to play in this society. At the end of the day, we can agree to that or not, but I think that in one period of our social development after war, of course, NGOs were the conscience of this society. So in that sense, I think the objections that come from the center and Mr. Nazor are not and how do I say adequate, I don't think they work in civil society and associations dealing with war crimes research, casualties, missing, killed, etc. that it is not about malicious interpretations but rather about establishing a partnership relationship between the centre and the NGOs involved. Because I don't see why anyone would bother anyone. Everyone does their job and they can only supplement themselves in that job. It's better to make registers of missing and murdered means we have accurate data than to make registers of national traitors. We see where it leads us, and yet these are smarter jobs that can benefit society. In addition, NGOs, above all, the Centre for Peace and DOCUMENT are the only places where interested parties can monitor the proceedings from the indictment to the verdicts published only on the pages of the judicial institutions. I'm talking about that the centre was logistics for the processes that took place in The Hague and what's certainly to say hello, and at the end of the day it turned out to be a success. But the fact is that, above all, the task is now at least when it's behind us, I'm telling the truth about six people from BiH, but most of the process is behind us and we should still do more, and I think it's also Mr. Nazora's ambition and his colleagues' scientific research. It should also be said that no one in this society is disputed by our or at least the vast majority who is the victim, who is the aggressor, but it is important to make that list the right way to avoid all these possible ideological and national challenges that are in some way present. Mr. Nazor said on the board one thing that I think should certainly be supported, him in this effort, which is that the president's office opens its archives, documents and researchers from the Dominski area but who work in the center. But then it should also be possible to respect these objections that come from a civil society that goes to the centre which is that the centre has taken over the documentation or at least a large part of the documentation so-called. Serbian demonstrations but partly put into public opinion. Whether the reasons are technically or most likely these are natures. But in any case, the question of an interesting selection of the criteria of the documents available. So if little Mr. Oversight is reminded of his request or ambition to enter the archives of the president's office, the president, and he's right to speak of it, then that should in some ways be reflected. These are some of the things that should be accepted simply because they would then avoid a number of debates about the character of the war, I will not open it, of course, because for me the war was defensive but the fact that Croats, Croatian citizens, were killed, killed, etc. of JNA paramilitary Serb troops but unfortunately there were also crimes committed and on the Croatian side we should not close our eyes before that, we do not need to discuss this in a wide way now, but I think it is the centre's duty to investigate it, and we have assurances that it is, too. I think that's a good way to go because only by objective, objective approach can actually avoid all possible misunderstandings that will unfortunately follow this whole story for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1134	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1135	Your Honor, I'm a little confused. I have to say, I don't get it with Mr. President when he said we shouldn't go too far in school about our Homeland War. So you'd ask him a question we're not looking for an exaggeration we're looking for the truth about the war. Well, I don't know why anyone comes out here all the time who thinks that this war in my opinion they don't see it as their war, so they keep asking questions about not being exaggerated, you don't need to know. I personally think that we need to tell the truth, we don't want a lie to be written and that our children in our schools need to know all that well and learn. As far as I know, it's been written a lot about Serbs who participated in this Homeland War, and we really have to be grateful for it, and we don't mean anything by it, but in these ways as discussed in the Assembly, I personally see that these people don't want it and I don't think they want Serbs who live in Croatia today and who are respected and I think they should respect this country and we certainly respect them. We don't always need to raise the question that we don't need to tell the truth, so I guess we should be ashamed of ourselves. Mr. Nazor we thank you for all this and would like you to explore to help Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially to pay attention to the exiled Bosnian Croats from Posavina that nobody writes about, no one talks about and no one returns them, and about 200,000 people are expelled, so I hope that this will also be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1136	Thank you. The replica of the distinguished representative, Misic, will be answered by the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1137	Well, I'd just like to give you a quick answer. Since I am a member of the national minority myself, I simply wanted to warn about this contribution, and it is clear that, above all, it is thought of the Serb national minority not to stand out, but to make the very recommendations that exist. If you close your eyes and don't want to see it it's another thing, but they exist. And to talk about it in a kind of objective way. And when I was talking about the Homeland War at school, I emphasized, you may have heard too much. Well, you have, too, and you're sitting, so you're probably years old not like me, but I remember because I was also a professor in the former system and in this system, that it was exaggerating, that just exaggeration with that matter actually contributed to the refusal to listen to that matter. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1138	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1139	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Jaroslav, you've well claimed that the Memorial-documentation center of the Homeland War and its director were those who were the logistics support of our generals in The Hague. It's an accurate finding but you misstated how the director called some civil society associations who didn't deserve it. Namely, these civil society associations were exactly the opposite of this logistics support, were the logistical support of the indictments, the indictments and were clearly shown as individuals representing the indictments and putting criminal and guilt on Croatian generals. And the documents and the veritas, you missed it and forgot it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1140	The honourable representative of Pecnik will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1141	In any case, your complaint about veritas absolutely can be accepted, and not only by veritas, but don't forget that a large number of associations in Serbia and a number of associations or a sufficient number of associations in Serbia were also very useful in this logistics support to Croatian generals and we are speaking in general about the Serbian Helsinki Committee, we are talking about the Natasa Kandic Humanitarian Law Fund. And as for the documents, I won't agree with you here, but that would be a broad debate, it's simply a matter of different worlds, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1142	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Culay.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1143	Your Honor. Mr. Pecnik, my understanding of history some might not understand, I loved history very much at school but it didn't match those things I listened to from older people who survived in the village, my grandmothers and many others. So let's call it pushing the way you train young people can get all kinds of results. But here, since we are living witnesses of that time, last war, it would be very instructive for a part of the great material Mr. Nazor collected directly from the participants of the Homeland War to enter the textbooks of history. Also to address the role of the Croatian army and the Croatian people in the second war I will say this, Mrs. Esther Gitman said, the Croats saved thousands of Jews and Stepinac is a saint. Thanks to Croats, 9500 Jews survived the NDH. I also know because, my roots are right here across the hill behind Sljemen, and I also know that Ilica had a lot of Jewish dwellings, houses, just like in Belgrade that were confiscated, taken from those same Jews. Did this victorious army ever return one of them to their apartment, their house, their property or anything else? To speak of the history of truth, not to remember the way this truth is being misused. Here I see, I'm gonna have to speed it up. Let's just say there's one truth, why yesterday I was a supporter of Z1, it's about Chetism in such a way that it's being propagated in some representatives of the people who don't hide and don't want to repeat what many of us ended up in cemeterys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1144	The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond. ... You didn't ask. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then the next replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1145	Your Honor, Mr. President... cooperates with civil, non-governmental civil society associations, civil society associations. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] However, probably while pleading on what Dr. I gave my view to the board, the parent committee on which we discussed it. I think there should be a difference here between those civil society associations that have falsified data for years and about the Homeland War and who simply haven't worked on facts because they weren't interested in facts. I would remind only that of two things that have often been repeated, on the one hand, that during the Storm or after the Storm, more than 20,000 houses were burned, and that was neither in the report nor anywhere documented, but only in The Hague was it rejected or disputed. I would remind you of the statement by the president of the HHO then in The Hague, in his testimony in The Hague that he was from '95. HHO, then the HHO at that time received over half a million dollars a year in order to tend to display the data and reports it submitted. Or the fact that 5.6 months before the verdict of the Liberation of Gotovina and the document brought together an assembly where the then president of the Republic was with his advisers, a state lawyer with his deputies, the President of the Supreme Court with the the thesis that there would be no catharsis in Croatian society until Croatia's political and military leadership of the 1990s was condemned. It's hard to work with such associations, and that's what Dr. Nazor was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1146	Thank you very much, the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1147	... and be the subject of this conversation. [[Specially enabled.]] But the fact is that if it were sometimes wrong, and I was on the Helsinki Committee for years, so I wouldn't talk about the association any more, but the fact is that when certain projects were being done and I was involved in the project of determining civilian victims in Operation Flash, we were more or less listing everything as we could have written, and it was more or less objective. When I say more or less, respecting all the circumstances that were there looking at those graves of NN monuments, etc. And if he makes a mistake sometimes, then I guess it's intellectually responsible that whoever makes a mistake apologizes for his mistake, but I don't think anyone's ever done it in a trendy way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1148	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the HDZ club, I would like to take a word for the esteemed representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1149	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Director of the Croatian Memorial-Documentation Centre. So this 2014 report clearly speaks about your activity and role and Croatian Democratic and its club will support and commend you for your persistent, orderly, concrete, thorough and consistent work on the collection of materials as well as on all the activities you have done through this report and shown. The centre was founded as we know in 2004 by decision of the Croatian Parliament, V.D. Director of the 2nd March 2005, by hiring employees in February 2006 and collecting archive materials as well as all of those materials collected by the service, whether individuals, and today they surrender to the Documentation Centre, and they are material that is certainly of exceptional value and that in future generations will permanently leave the truth about the Homeland War on all events, and also of certain procedures you help, and it is commendable that the generals have done so much research work, so much memory-documentation material, so much archived, so many scientific works that, in fact, with so little resources, the exceptional value of the Croatian homeland, the newer Croatian history, and I believe that such work of you, which at the given moments, should be tried to ensure that you are safely stimulated, as you are now. It is evident that, through three departments and four sections, you really do the maximum effort, effort, intellectual work to make this material so valuable to the needs of truth about the Homeland War, for the needs of future generations who yearn and cry out for real truth. Because there has been a historical delusion and confusion in various authorities as it has been shown, so many times the generals who have been legally released have experienced from certain high-ranking officials that they themselves have witnessed the wrong connotations of the Homeland War. But if all those who have put a stain on the Homeland War had come to your Memorial-documentation center, if they had looked at the material through clear archival buildings, through the notebooks that you put together, arranged, completed through 65 collections and certain displays of units of aggressor as well as activities, and records, orders, maps and ways as shown through this vast material would surely have changed those who, many times from speculant relationships, show the Homeland War in a negative sense, I am sure that they would change their minds if they met with the argument and the facts that were archived with you and who are in possession of you. The most recent event occurred in 2014 when the Ministry of Culture tried to change the composition of the Governing Council, the President of the Governing Council himself, as well as a member, naming a member who was an associate of the aggressor army and the rebel Chetniks. That's exactly what happened with you. Likewise, the Ministry of Culture has taken the next step. Only you and your Memorial-documentation centre have demoted you as a third-class director to probably help someone else, those NGOs or centres that have engaged in the activity inappropriately and financed by the Republic of Croatia. I believe that through your scientific and research work of the Homeland War, I believe that such sums will enter the textbooks of the Homeland War, that the truth will finally be first and foremost that the truth will bear witness to the righteous, defensive, liberating Homeland War because it is bound by you through all these books, through brochures, through research, through everything you have done to praise the memory and not just today. While the report after this is there is so much time in the Croatian Parliament, it is necessary to present everything that has happened all the time. Publications, presentations and all that you do through your activity with such modest means I am sure that the Croatian Parliament, but also the Government in the next term, will be able to appreciate as much as all those who love the Homeland War, who look at it with the right eyes, who base it on the truth and who will find in your archive a real factual state that has happened in certain areas both in the defence and in the release and in the "Bleska" and in summer, and "Storms", in which agreements are based and decisions on action, that no one in this Croatian Higher House will ever call the departure or assistance of Bosnia and Herzegovina an aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina. For this reason, this centre of yours as well as that center in Mostar which also collects archival material, which collects arguments and facts that have remained on the freed territory many times and which have been collected by the Croatian Defence Council, the Croatian Army, and also certain Bosniak troops, given to those who know how to keep it, who learn from it, who know how to present clearly what happened in a particular area. I believe that such assistance in the defence of six more Croats in The Hague as well as all those who are in the Homeland War honorably defending freedom and territory today, under suspicion of guilt, will help this Documentation Centre your extensive material as well as all that has been collected about Bosnia and Herzegovina. We believe that through the cultural, educational and scientific activities of your center we will have a bright and proud future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1150	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1151	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to thank my colleague Djakic for apostrophe of the scientific and research work of this centre, which we have apostropheeded at the session of our committee. We can only defend the cheek of our Homeland War with the truth, and there is no greater truth than the one that is scientifically founded. The staff of this center as well as us on the board are aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1152	Thank you. The esteemed representative Josip Djakic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1153	So respected colleagues only truth can be a righteous measure of time and moment and activity and events. Some people don't call it that. Some of the academic citizens speak of the director of the centre to call their nationalist rhetoric individual citizens of this country, but these same in their Serbian "News" can call everyone else, everyone else to mock everyone else satirically and to no one. It is a pain in the Croatian society that does not recognise the truth, and therefore I stressed that it is good for each of these intellectuals to look into the archives of the Memorial-documentation centre to ask Mr. Nazor and his fellow associates, his doctors of science who will show them what they are actually saying and why they speak, tell lies, deceptions and insults instead of the truth that is based right in this Memorial-documentation centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1154	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the next one will speak to the distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1155	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Nazor, fellow MPs, fellow MPs. Mr. Nazor is a great role and you are really within the framework of the financial and social frameworks in which you have had a relationship with the Homeland War in recent years you have really done everything you can to tell the truth, but the truth about the Homeland War and above all about the Croatian soldier. A Croatian soldier who stopped in the '90s, '90s. and '91. The naked one in front of the JNA horde, the rebel brushes who wanted to bring down the young democracy. Since that time, it's been 25 years, I was 19 then, some were younger, some were older. There are a lot of defenders here and among the MPs. The facts were distorted after the war. The Homeland War was proud and honorable and dignified, defensive both in Croatia's Croatian Army and in the BiH area. The Croatian Army has prevented genocide. You prove that Croatia and you have to work harder but not only you to prove that Croatia is not a random state. Croatia is acquired in blood. We must defend Croatia with the truth about the Croatian soldier. And therefore thank you, thank you on behalf of those defenders, comrades who gave their lives, in the name of their families. Because with the truth that you're going to explore and that you've explored how colleague Rusak and told science through school textbooks, we're going to leave it to our children for the future. That's all we have to work on. But you can't do it yourself, you can't represent yourself, you have to do it with the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Science, of course, the most important Ministry of Science has to establish that coordination, and together with what you've done so far, you have to do and show it to our children. I hope that those who thought to end history through various associations, and even from Belgrade, some associations have sent letters to us that we should work, but also political elites so far have treated the Homeland War in often advocacy and advocacy to various officials, Europeans. So our most deserved sons were arrested and located and transferred. But that's part of the history we're going to have to explore and see. Thank God that the Homeland War at The Hague means to our General Gotovina and Markac that the Homeland War was correct, defensive and that we should continue to build our future on it. We need to learn a lot from the past, not look back, because we don't need them, and I agree with some of us, we don't need the registers of traitors. We really need the truth about the Homeland War, the truth about the course of the Homeland War and everything that's been going on around the war. And the truth will give importance to the Croatian defender, the Croatian humiliated man, and they too would reveal themselves who were not very honorable during the Homeland War. But that's all we can do with research and truth. That's why on behalf of the MOST club, we'll support this. And let me just point out that it is very important to mention the role of also national minorities, people who have stepped into the defence of the Croatian state but to mention those who have raised their rifle that they cannot against us, against the Croatian young state, that they cannot end our history. It could not be in the aggressor army and now create Croatian history. No, gentlemen, it's not right for the victims who gave up their lives. MOST of Independent Lists will support and support everything regarding documentation and archiving around the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1156	Thank you very much. We have one replica of distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1157	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Bully, you've made quite a statement about this report for 2014. I would just like to remind you and ask you what are the names of those who have fled before an immobilization call, what are the names of those who have testified against their country and honorary generals, what are the names of those who were partners of the enemy, what are those who in various ways have destroyed that little democracy? It's a question of all the questions, the question of what to call it, the question in which register to put it?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1158	The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1159	Thank you very much, Mr. Djakic. I would just briefly say that, he added to that list, how to show those who participated in the conversion and privatisation, how to show those who have been working dishonestly until... The Homeland War, what are the meaning of war profiteers? Of course, but we can only do truth, truth research and orderly state, not selective behavior. My list of traitors who came out would certainly not have liked you, because everyone who located, transferred, arrested, might have been on my list. It doesn't have to mean anything, but maybe not everyone on yours, maybe they would. So that's selective. Mostly a regulated state and the truth some institutions do their jobs, many said so they mainly protected themselves. I hope we'll make sure the institutions do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1160	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to take a break now. We still have something to discuss on this subject, we have one club and we have about seven individual discussions, it's still a few minutes that I can get back to you if anyone wants. We'd take a break by 3:00 a.m. when we move on with this point. Thank you very much. It's 1:00. 20 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1162	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Nazor, colleagues and colleagues. Here is also in the discussions before me that it is the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, something has been said about the goals for which it was founded, and I would not hold on too long to do so. What I'm looking at here is that it's a public institution of scientific character and that it's intended to archive, investigate and document events in the Homeland War, so it's also the results that came from it. So we're talking demographic war destruction and so on. Since I believe that there is a consensus that we will accept this report more or less, I would stick to a few things that I consider particularly important and that I would especially highlight and underline when we talk about the work of the centre. First of all, I'd like to commend the center that it's focused on collecting and protecting archival buildings, that it's focused on new media. Here we talk about CDs, we're talking about DVDs, so there's written video material and all kinds of other but CDs and DVDs are also appropriate media to store data precisely because taking up less space, so physically it's much easier, of course, than that physical archival structure that exists, these are command records and similar things that are also being collected, so as an archival structure. We have seen that a large part of the work of the centre is actually focused on setting up existing archival buildings on its classification, cataloging, listing and actually making these documents available, especially the researchers then and the other interested public, since we could also read from the report that there was also a considerable interest in the building being kept by the centre, so if I'm not mistaken, some 80 requests were made according to the centre to make certain buildings available. What is particularly important to me is even a vital part of the memorial-documentation centre is the scientific research of the Homeland War. Especially interesting are some projects that started in 2014 precisely because of this interest I am waiting for the report this year to see how these research is conducted, for example direct demographic losses of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War. So besides material damage and demographic damage, it was done through the victims of the war, so those who died, and also through the emigration of migration. The migration flows themselves are also interesting within Croatia and the meanings that happened outside Croatia, so we are talking about Croats who came from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and vice versa about Serbs who went to Serbia, etc. So it will be very interesting to see it and I think it is a very important contribution to look at the complete picture of the Homeland War and what damage is actually done to Croatia there. Also a list of the dead is something that should be welcomed by other countries, about wars that even weren't defensive have similar lists, I don't see why we wouldn't have them and why it wouldn't be documented. As well as Croatian Homeland War, memory structures, I think there have been projects that some NGOs have been doing, also collecting, documenting, archiving memories and participants of the Homeland War but also those who participated in the Homeland War in a different way. So either as civilians, as people with a working obligation, as children, so from different perspectives to look at all the horrors of war and all the suffering our citizens have been exposed to. Also, publishing activity as we can see is quite fruitful, perhaps as a small suggestion and everything in the direction of popularization of actually studying the Homeland War, perhaps it would be directed a little more to focus on interactive media, so here we are talking about school material because there has been a lot of talk about how some colleagues have created dissatisfaction with the way the history of the Homeland War has been taught in schools. But also approaching actually this topic, both students and students, who would then in an interactive way through different maps, there can be, presentations, films short can see what it looked like, how war operations were going on about the victims of the population, about crimes, etc.... So first of all, the activity of the Memorial-documentation centre is to spread the truth about the Homeland War. I think we can all agree that the Homeland War was defensive, free and liberating. And I don't think we should waste any more energy and discuss it. When we talk about the Homeland War, I don't think there's room for either ideology or politics. Homeland War ideology is precisely this free, defensive, democratic one. I think that's the ideology we all share. Just as no political option can adopt or deny the Homeland War, the Homeland War is in the heritage of all of us, all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because of these things that I have just stated. People who work hard at the Center, who are investigating, documenting, file, are just trying to get our defenders, that all victims of the Homeland War, whether military or civilian, give a special pitet, if you want a marriage, a special place that they deserve in our society. They give us and them a light face. It's not about different tents, it's not about different processes, but I think it's about this kind of work, a scientific paper that documentes everything that was good in the Homeland War, but it also documentes crime data and no matter who did it. Unfortunately, that happens, too, because they say civilised war doesn't exist. If you ask me, war itself is a negation of civilization. For these reasons, of course, the SDP club will support the report and here we look forward to the report for next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1163	Thank you very much. Now we would move on to an individual debate and the first one is the distinguished representative of Damir Krstičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1164	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Nazor, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome you all once again. In my personal name I will talk about this important topic, about this important report, and I believe in the name of Croatian defenders, and I will also speak and say as a general, retired General of the victorious Croatian Army. But first of all, I thank Mr. Nazor once again for what this Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War was founded by the Parliament's decision to do and to do in these ten years of its existence. I think that all together we are aware here in this esteemed hall that Mr. Nazor and the whole team made a huge contribution to our generals in The Hague, our struggle for the truth about our Homeland War and thank God that it ended this way and with this final verdict that we all together here say that Homeland War is the foundation of the modern Croatian state and that all together in this Chamber, we people who did this, our youth can be proud of that time and these events. And I think that this institution is strategic and that it should be of special state interest and that once again we must never forget our newer history, its creation, and that we should leave behind generations of evidence and documents. I think it's our obligation to all of us here. When I look at this report what it is to me since I come from the real sector, but obviously it is a practice so far, we are now discussing it in January 2016 and it refers to 2014. I think I'm okay. It discusses the eighth convocation. In my view, it would be more logical if it closes the seventh term or it would be more logical that through this report and through all these discussions that we conduct to serve the director when he does a work plan for 2016, he could. However, according to this he cannot set it up, and only he will be able to set it up in 2017. So I say this debate, I mean through these reports of this center, and other reports should be used to improve the story, to build a system and here. So I believe that this assembly will speed up these activities a little bit and that these reports go year by year to contribute to the improvements that need to be made. I say, full support. Now I wouldn't want to say how many of those materials are, how many of those books and all that. But here's one piece of 1205 titles, that's 1841 books. I see it's started with the digital library process, which for today is that 367 books. So that's one process. I think we should work on that now. Clearly, there are financial resources needed, so that we go means one process, means digital books, digital documents, so that really in real time it can serve us today, for future generations, and I think absolutely in that direction we should go. I once again want to underline the Homeland War is something. I understand today are other problems, other priorities in our Croatia – economy, employment, workplace, people living hard, people making ends meet hard. But that's our history. Homeland war, I think, needs a special institution that's responsible for it, and we all need it together. I say and he is the foundation of the modern Croatian state, that we should write about it, that we should continue to talk about it, to collect data that once again, never to happen again, nor to repeat our responsibility to our friends who have died, who have given, without whom we would not be in this hall today so that we never forget it. So, full support, lots of books, lots of records, lots of photos, exhibitions. All that to keep our young generations going on and to leave it to them, I think it's our responsibility. It is also commendable to educate your employees and congratulations to these doctors. In that direction, you also need to move on. I understand, and there I would like it if possible, and I think we need to find a way to make these financial resources, I understand a lot of priorities, there are a lot of problems, there are a lot of people in our Croatia today who are looking for and deserve a lot more but I think we need to find a way to and this centre that is strategic that means it and with these small financial means to allow it to work even better and better. Clearly, there's a story and these archives, to find this storeroom we say we're going to step up digitization but until it's digitized we need this storage facility, the archives also quality-solved. And another thing is absolute support to our center. It's for the truth. Just the truth, we're not looking for anything in this room, about our Homeland War, all of us in our own way participated in it, every single one contributed, just the truth. And that full support means for the truth about the war in neighbouring BiH and full support means the centre in BiH that we also need, which we need. And here's what I'd draw attention to, and we'd also focus in that direction. Here again in the end I support the report as well as our HDZ club. We're doing a good job, but I'm saying we have space and we need to figure out a way to make it better, even better, to promote the truth about our Homeland War. Of course, we're going to the future, but I'm also saying that part of our history that's honorable, which is proud that we all get together in that part to help. Here, once again, thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1165	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Mira Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1166	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Krstičević agreed with you in these latest thesiss that you said you should give full support to the Mostar Centre, which also deals with these researches. However, we must not make one methodological mistake to view it as two wars independent of each other. It was one battlefield, one large Serbian policy that worked, and therefore it should be joint projects. And the clear thing is that the centre needs to be financially qualified to be able to do that construction work in BiH. It's just that if you're looking for information, let's say it was in '91. You don't have such data because we've always studied it from another point of view and we can't get it. Therefore, in any case, support should be given to the centre, it should be financed but should also be insisted on the methodology to say that it was one battlefield, one policy that has threatened and committed aggression on both Croatia and BiH and from that point of view should be explored.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1167	Thank you. The distinguished representative Damir Krsticevic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1168	Thank you very much for Mr. Agent Tudjman's speech. I absolutely agree with you, it's one battlefield with all the aggressions that have been committed and I think it's very important in that part of the support that we've said. So, this center of our Croatian Memorial-documentation centre for about 10 years, and there is already a lot of lesson learning, lessons learned and all that. They're now starting the process. Let's go to where we've wasted our time, as long as it took us, let's try it now means through learned lessons that colleagues in the neighbouring state, in Mostar, in order for their process to be faster, better, better. And I think we should all support it together and that's very important. I repeat once again what we're all looking for together, and what we should insist on is the truth, and nothing more. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1169	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1170	The Honorable president of the Homeland War is very much spoken of but there is little known about the war in BiH. Some more misinformation is spreading. We have six of our Croats now in BiH, actually from BiH awaiting a verdict in The Hague. And it should be kept repeating that there are no Croats in BiH it would be a unique battlefield already mentioned here and there would be no Croatian state nor would be the Federation of BiH. When the war stopped, when the Dayton Agreement was signed 51% of the current Federation held the Croatian forces, it is the HVO. And today the HVO is marginalized, he's like an ugly sister you can't take to dinner and you can take her to bed. There is black propaganda here against Croats in BiH and little is known about the Homeland War. There are people in this House who have accused Croatia of aggression in BiH. That's inadmissible for me! No evidence whatsoever! And imagine what it would be like for the Croats to move out of those border areas of Livno, Duvno, the Bosnian Posavina? You don't have a brigade in Bosnia's Pavina between 500, less than 500 dead. That terrible summer of '92. In the year 7,000 members of the HVO were transferred through Sava to the Bosnian-ship hospital. Without these people, neither Croatia nor the current Federation would be today. The axis in BiH, Belgrade-Banja Luka-Moscow axis, is being created, too... Turkey one-way, Saudi Arabia, where are the Croats? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Without strong Croatia and without strategic depth, I'd like a gentleman there if he'd talk to me wait a little, 50 pushups, I won't talk when you talk. And that... until there is no solution for Croats in the BiH has no strong Croatia. Croatia is 100m euros each year with Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Without them, there is no strategic depth, the survival of these people is important there and we must all engage in a stable Bosnia and Herzegovina where Croats are not marginalised.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1171	Thank you very much. We got it. I'd just draw everyone's attention to choosing a little words when we make our claims whatever they are. The distinguished representative Damir Krsticevic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear General Glasnović, I would like to say how much we are, and before Mr. Representative Tudjman, one is a battlefield, one aggression just so that we all together in this hall have a dimension why we need to help the neighbouring state, why do we need to help our center even more in Mostar? Look, I was the commander of the 4th Guard Brigade. As formal means it's the Split Brigade. People were in that brigade from all over Dalmatia. You know who's the first member of the 4th Guard Brigade in Zadar to die? That's the late Nikola Djalta. Where's Nikola Djalta from? So look at the first member of the 4th Guard brigade to die, where did Nikola Djalk come from? From central Bosnia. So 91st year in the 7th month of 91st year. It's a connected story. So I think we should all do it together for this truth and in the war next door and full support and what General Glasnović said and full support to the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre with all his knowledge, with all his abilities, which Dr. Nazor apparently has with experience, with learned lessons we go together all together in this hall to help this story in Bosnia and Herzegovina end in the right way and end with the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1173	Thank you. ... She is the distinguished representative of Sabine Vosovac. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1174	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation you mentioned and I completely agree with your claim that the Homeland War is the cornerstone of a democratic and modern state and that we must never forget the emergence of a newer Croatian history and that the obligation is, in fact, not only in the Croatian Parliament but also in Croatian society that for generations that come we leave evidence of the truth about the Homeland War. And I completely agree with you. I believe that all this commendable work, therefore, and scientific approach and evidence that will come from the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War will be a valuable contribution to what you have expressed your wish for. I think the best way to do that is to get the education system right. So it's a time when we shape children today, tomorrow young responsible people, responsible citizens of this society. And here I am using the opportunity actually to mention that a few days ago on the pages of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports came up with three, six working documents of the curricula concerned, including the curricula in question, teaching history. We can all agree that we have heard it many times here in the debate that this material is actually insufficient especially in primary schools and I believe that this publication will actually include the entire professional public, the media, all interested citizens, in order to make this document as high as possible and as comprehensive as possible. Also, a project of field teaching will continue to visit Vukovar, which was started by the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports where students actually have a first chance through one contact today with Vukovar, and tomorrow and with some other areas actually feel and learn all the decay of aggression, the sadness of war, the pain of lost lives, the gratitude of those who gave their lives for freedom, the difference between good and evil and the importance of building culture, peace and tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1175	Thank you very much. Answer, distinguished representative Damir Krstičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1176	Dear President of the Parliament, I thank my colleague Sabina for these words. I absolutely support them. I think that's the story of all of us, I say once more of the Homeland War, that it is the foundation and we need to repeat the modern Croatian states. The story goes on and absolutely no one has any privilege, so it's for all of us. And what I'm supporting right now is we absolutely need to keep going, it's a story of those, I'm not telling the story of these teaching content. We don't need everything and everything, life goes on, we have to prepare young people for a real life, and it's all expensive, and I think that there's some value to it, some truth, and all that you're going on right now, and we absolutely welcome it all, and all that's done is there's no reason not to go on and that story of that history, and the truth that it's getting even more entrenched and that it serves us for an extension of a good, honest educational process in our schools. And I also support this about Vukovar, what's done the same thing, I think it's the same good thing that people learn about it all in one way and coming means these schools all together and I absolutely support it and I welcome it and I point out that it's well done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1177	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representatives of Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1178	Dear President, Mr. Nazoru, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would take the opportunity to say about the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre report, pointed out that defenders are not the burden of Croatian society and deeply sorry if they feel so excluded. This book that we got on the bench, which speaks of the suicides of Croatian defenders, is shocking. 21 thousand 458 people in the Republic of Croatia were killed from 1991 to 2014. An entire small town was killed, poor, unemployed, lonely, estranged. 2734 Croatian defenders committed suicide. How could that have happened in the first place, where we all set out as a society together? In the election campaign, I experienced an experience I'll never forget. A person came to me, cursed me, called me a commie and started yelling, "I'm a Croatian defender." Then I answered very calmly, very sadly, my dad was a Croatian defender and he defended Lika and his two brothers. One was defending Bania, the other was defending Slavonia, and all three were no longer alive. That's when I realized that Croatia is deeply divided around this topic. Even today I do not understand why the Croatian defenders built the tent, which so resented the honorable man Predrag Matic, and is Mijo Crnoja a man who will restore pride to Croatian defenders? I am ashamed that such a man is the minister of Croatian defenders. In the Homeland War, which was magnificent in which we must be grateful for every sacrifice, grateful for freedom, grateful for the state, half a million people participated. After the war, they continued to love their country fairly, paying taxes and taxes, and they had no idea of changing their home addresses. They didn't expect anything in return because every real man will defend his country because he does it for his family, for his children. In the Homeland War, both dishonest things happened and Croatia must face them in a peaceful and tolerated way. This process is painful, the existence of such centers helps us to recover. And I'm going to quote a quote in the book: "From feeling proud to being disappointed and resigning in less than 20 years.". I say a lot of it. We are all invited to protect the dignity of the Homeland War because we do not have to go to Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1179	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1180	Your Honor, I'm giving this to the young lady. If Croatia would not be like a man who wakes up every morning with a new amnesia attack thanks to our media, education system and those old structures that are constantly blocking the lighting of our history, and let's say from 1912 to beyond when the great Serbian imperialism began, we won't be much about history but we have to take off... From another eye. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It used to be in Face before '41. years... The Croats, now they're out 40 grand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Bosnia and Herzegovina, 10% of the total population of young people aged 18 to 21 were killed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, young people, not one child. I was born in Zagreb, you know where old Zagreb went? In... That's where my grandfather was, that's where the Zagreb elite went missing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fundamental problems have not been solved in Croatia, we do not have freedom of speech in the Croatian state, we have a media link from people from the former system who defend their interests and they are networked in all layers of society. Why Croatia is the only country plus Slovenia post communist to the European Union that opposes illustration. This illustration is based on three pillars. The first pillar is true, the first pillar is education, that people know what happened, no more taboo topics, no more Balkan wars, no more Serbian aggression between '18 and '21. when only about 150,000 people were killed in Kosovo by large Serbian imperialism and Albania. No silence since '41. By '45. And so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1181	Thank you very much. Time's up, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1182	There's 13 more seconds here. And it should be done and then we will have Croatia's state, lustration, opening archives and staff change.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1183	The Honorable representative, Sandra Krpan, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1184	It's a good thing I answer the gentleman at his best age. I really agree with you that it is necessary to learn and I think that I am doing so in my work as principal of the school where I teach my children to accept different people in our homeland and teach them the truth about the Homeland War, just what Mrs Sabina Glasovac was talking about, testifying that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports together with former Minister Jovanovic launched an important project to teach our children the truth about the Homeland War we took them to Vukovar, students of the 8th grade. I think we all care about the truth and that the government of Zoran Milanovic has just advocated that truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1185	The Honorable representative, Peja Grbin, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1186	Dear Mr. President, first of all Article 236. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are intended to give word to the MP who corrects the breach of the Rules of Procedure as soon as he asks for it, which means that you should have given me the right to speak before my colleague, but it does not matter, I am just warning you that such a mistake would not be done again. However, Article 238 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Rules of Procedure, which was injured by the honourable representative Glasovic, writes that during the hearing, the representative must not belittled, etc. other representatives. It was common, unfortunately it was common in this House to call our colleagues and colleagues patronizing and telling them young colleagues, young lady, young colleagues, etc. With all due respect in this House we have only representatives and regardless of the age of life they have 18 or 88 years they are all in the same position. And I ask you to warn your representative that he no longer makes such comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1187	Thank you very much. I agree with you that colleagues should be properly referred to each other, but I estimate that this is not actually a breach of the Rules of Procedure because it was not offensively said. But I agree that we should address each other in an adequate way. But the next one will be spoken by distinguished representative Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1188	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Much has been said and this report has been illuminated in discussions and replicas on many sides. However, I will talk about this report or about this report about the truth and the distortion of truth about the Homeland War from the position of Croats from BiH, also from the position of the political representative of Croats from BiH because I am at the head of the Croatian National Assembly in BiH, which brings together 12 political parties and over 6 hundred elected officials. First, I would like to congratulate Mr. Nazor, the director of the center on the results that they have achieved with 18 people and in 150 squares. A similar Bosniak centre in Sarajevo has at least double that. And here, in fact, in no way is this report questionable and the results of this center. For me, therefore, it is a controversial reception on the overall Croatian policy of what this centre is doing and what is, in fact, the essence of the truth about the Homeland War. That's why I'm here to talk about this issue from the position of distorting the truth about the Homeland War. It has, therefore, its deep political and historical implications. It's not just that this is about the distortion of history. It is about affecting the present and creating the future, creating the future at the will of those who distort that truth. In fact, the perception in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in the Croatian public in part in the International Community, has been trued that Croatians, especially Croats or political representatives of the Croats of BiH during the Homeland War, were least cooperative both in negotiations and relations with Bosniaks, earlier Muslims, and in relation to the International Community, and the truth is quite the opposite. The Croats saved Bosnia and Herzegovina at least three times for the first time by voting for its independence, secondly by organising the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina when the central government in Sarajevo could not, and I can testify reliably, because I was then the orthopedic clinic in Sarajevo, which was then the largest war hospital in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And for the third time, they saved Bosnia and Herzegovina when the joint actions of the Croatian Defence Council and the Croatian Army in the "Storm" created conditions, the broken spine of the great Serbian aggression, created conditions for signing the Dayton Peace Agreement and prevented another genocide that would be scarier than the one in Srebrenica, and it would apply to God not to the territory of the Bosnian province, or to the part of Bihać. Therefore, on the other hand, Croatian representatives here and in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina were the first to accept all offered peace agreements – Kutiler's plan was accepted by the Croats. He was led by the Bosniak leadership to check with Ali Izetbegovic, but were primarily accepted to receive international recognition, and then when he returned to Sarajevo he refused. Vance-Owen's plan turned down Serbs, Owen-Stoltenberg's plan refused again Bosniaks, Croats accepted everything. And where are these perceptions now created in the inoperability of Croatian leadership? But what am I trying to say? The distortion of that truth, the historical truth, has profound consequences. So, imposing the Stigma on Croatian politics to interfere with the internal affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then immobilising that policy against Bosnia and Herzegovina itself, I would like to say one thing here that may not agree even some members of my club here in Croatia did not have a strategic relationship with Bosnia and Herzegovina and not even on the Croatian issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina after Tudjman, and it is time to take care of that. So, I also want to raise awareness here of one thing that is happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia is signatories of Dayton and... A deal, Washington, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is a guarantee of these agreements. It was precisely because of this imposed truth that the Stigme of Management because of the distortion of historical truth that Croatia was immobilized for its more active policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina that Croatia did not interfere while everyone else interfered. So passively it was seen that it was happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the doorstep of the state, but in the belly of the very state of political ethocidal people. And today we have the situation that the rights of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are precisely and partly due to the distortion of historical truths eroded both in relation to the Washington and Dayton peace agreements that were not ideal for us at the time. And we would be happy today to tell you that we can return to the original Washington and Dayton Peace Agreement and right now we as the Croatian politics in Bosnia and Herzegovina and as the Croatian National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina are fighting for it. So Croatia decided not to interfere while everyone else interfered. Other consequences of the distortion of historical truth concern the court's relations with the trial of members of the Croatian Council of Defence, including the Croatian Army. So, I want to say and in this way I might not agree to the end with my colleague Bulja, but I did not replicate to him when he was speaking I was registered for the debate, that the acquittal of Croatian generals Gotovina and Markac had been removed from the Homeland War. No, it will only be removed if such a qualification is removed in the trial of the Croatian six-member in The Hague at the head which is usually referred to in public as Prlic and others. I can say I of these people, six of them all know them, but I know Mr Prlic best because I was with him also Minister of the Government of Herceg Bosnia and the Government of the Republic and the Federation of BiH, etc. and can reliably argue with full credibility that a man with such a political, ethical and intellectual habitat cannot be part of a joint criminal enterprise nor can it be the Croats in BiH who are the fewest people and who have only defended themselves. So, this imposed Stigma burdens the Croats, especially if this first-degree verdict would remain in the second-degree right, it would have serious consequences not only for the Croats in BiH but also for Croatia itself. For Croats in BiH, it could be used to justify all the bad things that have been happening to us in the past. Not to mention, in two terms a member of the presidency was elected to the Croatian votes of Bosniaks, in two terms of four years after the Federation government, where the main resources in BiH were made up of legitimate representatives of Croats, etc. Already what follows in the future, therefore, the withdrawal of BiH's right itself, and Croats are known to be the biggest victims in BiH. Today we are facing the fact, the census has not been officially published yet, but according to some very credible estimates, the loss of a demographic substance in BiH is from 30% to 40%. And from 49% of BiH's territory called entity Republika Srpska, the Croatian people have completely disappeared, which can even be characterized as genocide. So these are the consequences suffered by a people who are still under the influence of a common criminal enterprise. Furthermore, these days we have witnessed it being opened under allegations of "hunting" on Croatian generals in BiH because why? Because the Croats in BiH are being tried by the so-called objective command responsibility while others are tried by direct responsibility. And not to say that dozens of Croatian strategists didn't start processing at all and they weren't even processing commanders. From Grabovica, Uzdol, Trusine, Stipića Livada, etc., etc. I don't want to keep counting. Let me tell you these qualifications that can be heard and which are part of the Hague indictment of alleged joint criminal enterprise are now being used in BiH in indictments of Croatian generals. So I'll tell you that in the indictment of Croatian General Mija Jelic, whom I know well, comes from my place of the Great Brije, mentions qualifications within the framework of a broad and systematic attack by the HVO and the Military Police on Bosniak civilians. Please, nice! Who attacked civilians? It was a war and two armies that were for a time co-operating in BiH in the fight against major Serb aggression and when the Bosniaks lost most of the territory thanks to the overpower of the Serbian-backed JNAs, they turned to say so to the other part of BiH, to make up for it. So these are the truths, and that is why I want to be here in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public, and through the Croatian Parliament, it is disciplining and communicating the truth about the Homeland War and the rest of the world. And so I support the work of this center, congratulating Mr. Nazor, especially I congratulate him for investing in this work not only professional competences and reason but also emotions, which means he cares. And I want this government, that this center also cooperates with a similar documentation centre in Mostar to help both professionally and financially because the truth about the Homeland War is one. The Homeland War was one, BiH defended itself together in synergy with Croatia. Croatia defended itself in BiH because BiH was attacked. And had it not been for the contributions of the Croats from BiH, there might not have been a winning Storm or there would have been much greater casualties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1189	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1190	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ljubic I do not know where you saw me belittled or selectively shared by HVO and the Croatian Army. I have no right to do so because I participated together in all operations with these people and I believe that he is a Croatian soldier and I will never share them, whether in the HVO or in the Croatian Army. The Croatian soldier prevented a disaster similar to Srebrenica in the Bihaćka enclave area. I took part here as a member of the 4th Guard Brigade, here is General Krsticevic, not to repeat myself. And I am proud of every soldier from BiH, a Croat who participated on either side or other nationalities that participated in the defence of BiH. Personally, as the man who participated there, don't impose on me any more, and I respect these generals, and I believe that as long as these people in The Hague are also Croatian soldiers and Croatian institutions must do and prove the truth. And the truth is that these people freed BiH as well as Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1191	Thank you. The honourable representative Bozo Ljubic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1192	We probably didn't get along. So, I'm convinced that you said what you said in a perfectly good way, and I'm sure we're completely in agreement on the qualification. However, I just wanted to add that the liberating verdict of Gotovina and Markac is a great gain for the truth about the Homeland War. But also the Stigma of the Homeland War, which I repeat one, will be completely indistinguishable to say so only when a similar qualification is removed from the ruling of the Croatian six in The Hague headed by Mr Prlic. So that was my intention. And what I want to see from the Croatian Parliament, from Croatian representatives at all levels, from the Croatian government after all to help defend the truth about the Homeland War and also through the assistance of suspects and war crimes indictees in BiH because I want to tell you clearly that Serbian commanders and suspects are assisted by the Government of Republika Srpska, Bosniaks by strong cantons in the Federation of BiH. We Croats are unfortunately put in a position that we are not alone here, and these people are only suspects and even if they are accused by the presumption of innocence they are not guilty and Croatia has the full right to both professionally and financially help these people in defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1193	Thank you. We have another replica of the distinguished representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1194	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is Honorable colleague Ljubic, what you have said is that the Homeland War is one and, in fact, it is not finished when it comes to the trials of six men in The Hague, it would be perfectly correct, or it would be normal to automatically with this verdict to the generals, acquittal to the generals Gotovina and Markač, the ad act was issued and this indictment, i.e. the first-degree verdict of the six in The Hague. On the other hand, when it comes to Stigmatisation, not to mention the information war against and Croatian politics in Croatia in the 1990s, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, much would fall off if one fact was just not put out, which is that Croatian policy official policy since the first day of the international recognition of Bosnia and Herzegovina has proposed a military alliance to the BiH presidency against the common aggressor. This was proposed when the first friendship agreement was signed in the 6th month of 92nd, so Ali Izetbegovic refused. It was also proposed in the 9th month of 92nd meeting in the UN, proposed in that agreement, in the Split agreement, a pardon in the 93rd year agreement. It was only in the Split agreement two weeks before the Storm. To mean that policy one against the common aggressor was simply rejected by the Bosniak side throughout the war. And therefore, all of these structures that go after that when viewed from that position are simply one falsification and cannot withstand the assessment of real events and real relationships.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1195	Thank you. The honourable representative Bozo Ljubic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1196	... A foreigner who, of course, was about the events concerning the negotiations and all that was certainly very close that he could testify to it, and I am also witnessing real life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[Last-on speaker]] So you will hear from the menstream policy in Banja Luka today about the aggression of the Republic of Serbia in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the mentream of Bosniak politics in Sarajevo about double aggression. And the fact is that Croatia did the most to save Bosnia and Herzegovina not only through what I just said, all logistics went through Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and refugees were all taken care of in Croatia or passed through Croatia. And as for this Stigm on the joint criminal enterprise, it will only be taken off when the same Stigm is removed from the door of the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina through the verdict of six people in The Hague because if it remains so, and they are simultaneously in Bosnia and Herzegovina such things that some goals that were not achieved in the war today are achieved through the imposed laws by revote, so I do not know myself through the Laws on Spatial Planning in Croatia, the majority county or the municipality declares out of interest for the Federation, so that it extends ten times, and then rises to the jurisdiction of Sarajevo, so it is also done in the water areas, so in the forest areas, and in this way, those things that I believe would not happen to the arrivals of Croatia and Croats through the distorted history of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1197	Thank you. The next individual debate will be her distinguished representative Zdravko Ronka.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1198	Thank you very much. I won't talk about what my predecessors said about accommodation, position, collection of archival buildings and everything that's the technical part because the predecessors said it, I don't want to waste time on that part. Of course I will say that I support and support the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre in terms of raising awareness of the values of the Homeland War and keeping and our collective memory. I support and advocate and support and advocate yours for the greater presence of this topic in school institutions. So from this angle of raising awareness of the value of the Homeland War and the presence of this topic in school institutions I want to say or remind, I believe that even many even know and have heard about that project "The Hour of Truth" raising knowledge about the Homeland War of primary schools and secondary schools. And this project was first implemented as a pilot in 2010 and launched by the Association of Veterans and Volunteers of the Homeland War and the City of Požega. And here he was accepted somewhere more than half of the county and half of the towns in the Republic of Croatia. Why did I say that? It is precisely because for this project as well as for each other they need certain financial resources, such as the budgets of cities, counties, donors, etc. I don't see why in one perhaps stronger, greater cooperation and interaction between the centre and the units of local administration and self-government would not find that financial link. I think she would be both useful and bring more fruitful results. I also said this because I was saddened by the information from the financial report of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, which shows that this centre has received even or only however you want 10 thousand kuna in 2014. I say I'm sad especially when I put that amount in line with the oaths of the Homeland War, with the oath of the Homeland War, to the Croatian defenders. I'm even sadder when I have knowledge that says how much money is directed at donations of any kind, anything or anyone. Of course I don't want to mention anyone special, but here's how much money is directed and how generous some entities were when it comes to political parties. So man asks himself how they didn't remember the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre. And from that angle, I'm using this topic to invite them to show up and at least in the same proportion they donate to our center. And this is their chance to bring something back to our own country to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1199	Thank you. The next individual stand will be attended by a distinguished representative, Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1200	Mr. President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Nazor for the persistent, professional, scientific and research work that you have both personally and your associates in the past years and in 2014 and 2015, but also all that you have done in order to truly achieve the truth in the Homeland War, in order to gather both archival construction and that part of publishing activity to do absolutely everything and achieve the goal that is the establishment of this center. So the whole meaning is well said once, so in one of your public acts which is the purpose and purpose of this centre is actually said by one boy of the late Croatian defender to know, not to repeat and not to forget. So this is what the goal is and what must remain of us and surely agree with colleagues and colleagues of the representatives who discussed education and an extremely important role of how primary schools, secondary schools and universities in the Republic of Croatia that this truth about the Homeland War is passed on to our children because I want my children, except that they learn from parents, from wider family members to learn from educational institutions which was the Homeland War and which we have therefore had the privilege of having witnessed as participants the creation of a thousand-year-old dream, all of our ancestors and this is an independent and free Republic of Croatia. Collecting, preserving the publication of materials about the Homeland War, keeping such a memory but also the truth about that magnificent part of Croatian history, this very center works for all those who will come behind us and for all generations to have the truth and the truth is the only one and often is said if you're going to tell the truth you don't have to remember what you said because the truth is what we had and who should be enlightened. In any case, I would like to say that this specialized archive for the Homeland War, which only after 10 years of the end of the Homeland War, was founded as an office, so as a decision of the Croatian Parliament and Government, actually shows that although it may be too late but that it is the purpose and purpose of its existence that has certainly fulfilled it. Why? Because, as I have mentioned, both fellow MPs and MPs have noted, we should keep the truth about the Homeland War for all generations to come behind us. For this reason, I would like to point out that the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is one of the most important scientific research institutions that keeps the memory of war, of the victims, of all our dead defenders, of all their families who have stood in defense of our country. In light of all that was happening after the war, in light of the attempts to impose the thesis on civil war, the common criminal enterprise, the things that came about the Homeland War, of the equality of guilt that tried to impose is precisely why it is important to know what was going on and that the generations that come into this centre will have the truth and arguments to carry on and that, regardless of when and at any time whether for 10, 50 or 100 years for the victims of our defenders, all those who have given their lives for Croatia, for our country, for all their families, the truth about the Homeland War is one, enlightened and that we have the facts because the facts are those that cannot be killed and that is what will remain forever. And without memory material, it is not possible to fully understand history, by collecting this and this building, the historical buildings in any case, and we show and show respect and gratitude for our Croatian defenders who have allowed their lives to live in the free and democratic Republic of Croatia. And I would certainly commend this part of the report here, I hope you did, and I believe that you continued in 2015. Therefore, work was continued on the project direct demographic losses of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War, so the entry of data into the centre's database on the dead in the Homeland War in the occupied areas of the Republic of Croatia. I consider it extremely important especially because of the demographic flood of Croatia because of the year-to-year, so I can freely say the extinctions of the Croatian people. So in 2015 it was the year with the biggest demographic downturn during the free and democratic Republic of Croatia, and in that part it has to be enlightened how and why this has come we know in the last four years what are the causes of both migrations and demographic declines. But in any case, we must have the truth that we will shed light on and which in the future will be very much in schools and universities to witness to our generations that are coming behind us. Therefore, our friend, therefore, and our greatest friend of truth, is time. I'm sure and I believe that even in this year, you will continue to work hard to ensure that the truth about the Homeland War is supported by facts and that every year this archive is becoming more complete and that we truly achieve the goal that you are founded and I support this report of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1201	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1202	Here's what I'd like to say to my colleague for a little while. We hear on several occasions already, so I didn't want to report on education all the time, the power of education, what education should be done. In the end, I was alone in the name of the club talking about it. Of course it's very important, but I think we're a little under the illusion of Jean Jasques Rousseau about the power of education. Education isn't all-powerful. We see this simply from everyday practice. We have people who have finished colleges, so they act like they've never been through it. We forget one important fact that we don't mention here in a context in which we should, and that's education. We know from development psychology because the Homeland War assumes truth, goodness, struggle means some ethical, moral values, norms, etc. Children from the third to the sixth year adopt the most, but this is already another topic, it's preschool education, it's the subject of the state's relationship. We know who's funding preschool education. It's on the mangers of local administration and self-government. That actually means how much money there is to work there. In other words, in the beginning we make one mistake, and then later it is very difficult to bridge and reach. So I am for education, but let's not forget about education. Of course, it's not a subject to be touched by Mr. Nazor. But that's what we're always talking about here, so let's figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1203	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond. But I would like to pray that we stick to the subject, the topic is the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, not preschool education or anything, so let's stick to the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1204	Thank you, Mr. President. That's exactly what I said. So, an esteemed colleague has neither been replicating nor related to my discussion nor to which, nor to the report we are now discussing. But preschool education, so kindergartens, and that's education and education. But let's leave it to the expert to assess when and at what point children should learn about the Homeland War. So we agree that they must, that they must be included in the building's textbooks. Whether it's going to be in kindergarten, elementary, high school, we're going to leave it to the profession. So it's on them. I've been teaching my children since I was a kid what happened in Croatia. And so, that's it, what they're going to get from the family. But it is a community and society that must learn among other things to decide at which point children will learn in the Homeland War at which point they are educated.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1205	The next replica is the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1206	Thank you very much. My colleague Mađerić, I don't find this topic professionally close to me, but because of empathy, she may be my closest. And I will only refer to the part that you mentioned about the role of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, because we all know that life lists our lives, the list of our memories, and we have very much to remember. And while many institutions in Croatia are far from what Croatia is living and living and while many Croatian institutions act as theatres and live some of their lives, play some of their lives, some of their idyll, some of their activities and in their names only have Croatian adjectives. The Croatian Memorial-documentation centre is a truly, professionally and institutionally useful institution. This is an example of institutional usefulness in the Republic of Croatia, otherwise Croatia is institutionally defective. And I wish there were more institutions like this, and let's just remember only a few months or years ago an action was launched to abolish the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre. Are we just going to stay on those, on some hags who have failed to make a single film on this topic in 20 years, who were hiding documents so as not to help the generals of the Croatian Army in The Hague, in defence and in doing so was an example not only of the Croatian Documentation Centre, but of all the professional and intellectual efforts of Dr. Nazora. And while in action, the great work in Croatia intellectual betrayal Dr. Nazor is an example of a responsible intellectual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1207	Thank you. Here's a response from the distinguished representative Mađerić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1208	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I couldn't agree more with you because you've listed the very important role of this center as well. Because as I pointed out and in the debate in Croatia we have and we had people who wanted to impose that civil war, some other truths, happened in Croatia, wanted to justify that we had aggression. I think that's one of the main goals why this center should exist and why facts and arguments need to be explored and transmitted to our generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1209	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Sanja Putice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1210	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's Mrs. Mađerić, somehow teaching in your commendation to this Memorial-documentation centre that we're talking about today, I feel the duty to say that in Dubrovnik I don't need to explain much how much he suffered in the Homeland War in the course of the initiative and the collection of documentation for the launch of the Home War Museum project at Srđ. In this sense, I also appeal to our new Ministry of Culture, to the new Minister, but also to you, Mr. Nazor, to help two enthusiasts in Dubrovnik, whose back was from the beginning to the present day the entire permanent lineage that we have on Srdje, which is year after year the increasing number of visitors, and thus foreign visitors, who have become familiar with the history of the Homeland War in Dubrovnik and throughout Croatia. I am sure and aware of the fact that they are following your work and that your work will surely be precious to them in this regard. It is also important to note that, in Dubrovnik, all political groups and all defence groups have gathered around this initiative and, therefore, I would like to say the logistics support of the Ministry of Culture so that another can freely call it the Homeland War Memorial Centre in place as Dubrovnik has revived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1211	Thank you. And it's the last discussion of that distinguished representative, Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1212	... and perhaps if we discussed this report more carefully and with more respect, perhaps what should never be the subject of political debates in this Croatian Parliament would never be. [[Specially enabled.]] Sadly, however, many have taken the right to witness for some time where truth is crystal clear. And a lot of people took the right to show some things the way they think they do. And fortunately, Mr. Nazor and his team took this job on a completely different basis, on a scientific basis and clearly methodologically established procedure where the victim was the victim no matter where the crime was, no matter where he was on which side he was, where the aggressor is the aggressor and where the defender is the defender. Maybe someone doesn't like it, but many in this House have said that Croatia was an aggressor in BiH. Forgetting the historical documents signed between Croatia and BiH. Many forget that there was a defensive Homeland War in Croatia and this is the brightest moment in the modern Croatian state and its history. We also had the opportunity to see how someone tried to eliminate this statement that Croatia was created, that they were the foundations of the modern Croatian state in the Homeland War than they wanted to transfer it to another topic. Why is it that if we all say that we need this Croatian memory-documentation centre why is it organisedly removed from one form to another where it is practically marginalized? Why does this memorial centre not have its clear position in the Croatian budget? Why don't we all encourage both financially and in any other way to get this job done for the simple reason to stop fighting politically about things we shouldn't be fighting over. However, when colleagues from the Croatian Memorial and documentation centre finish this job, then they will need to do some other analysis that I think happened with all that happened, human lives, war damage, etc., far more important and that is how historically demographic Croatia lost in the Homeland War. How many of those who died who were supposed to become the parents of one, two, or three children? And that's something scientific that needs to be said clearly. 'Cause look by the hair we escaped a conviction in The Hague that Storm and Homeland War was a joint criminal enterprise, by the hair. The same verdict threatens six Croats from BiH. And in the end, when you look at it all together, it turns out by things like that that the Croats were the only ones who fought in these areas. And neither Croats from BiH nor Croats from Croatia have removed from the area where they lived for centuries. They were there, defending themselves. Others attacked them, and now the Croats are criminals, creating some kind of joint criminal enterprise, and others were saints and did nothing. Look, the historical fact is and the truth is that in Bihac the biggest crime in history since World War II would have taken place in Bihac, if it hadn't been for the Liberation Action of Storm and that Croatian military forces and regular forces hadn't unblocked the area of Bihaq's pocket. But no one mentions it. In fact, policies in the neighbouring country often forget that and put Croatia in the context of some kind of aggressor and someone who attacked BiH. So tell me, has it been recorded anywhere in history that a country that is accused of being an aggressor at the same time from that country that allegedly attacked is receiving and caring for more than 400 thousand exiled and refugees not members of its people but members of another people? And that is all the historical truth, the historical truth that we in this Parliament must have as an hour of history when we discuss the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre. And secondly, I can't agree that the textbooks in schools, Croatian schools have processed the Homeland War enough. This particular material that is made on a scientific basis, which has a clear methodology, should be the basis of what will be found in the textbooks. And not that someone says it can't be this one or it can't be that one. 'Cause remember, we used to get hit with a battle on Kozara, a battle on the Sutjesca, a battle on Neretva, we had to know our whole lives. Do you have one of the actions of the Croatian Liberation Army today, you must not mention it in the books. And why, who cares about that history? Who's got a problem with this history? Why don't we have an hour of history at the Croatian schools on the day of the fall of Vukovar? It's nobody else's fault, it's our fault, we're all here no matter what political option it was. It's part of our history, and it's a day along the way when in all schools, our children would have to get information about what happened then. And it's commendable that children from primary and secondary schools go to Vukovar, and here's what my colleague Ronko used to say and see the horrors at the scene, because what it is when you see these horrors is you grow up never to think about doing anything like that again. So that's what we should talk about when we talk about this Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre on his report. And given all the support of my colleague Oversight to do it. And now let me go a little over the border. So we in the Constitution have an obligation to care for Croats outside Croatia, above all we mean Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, when you look at their documentation centre and colleagues Raguz as much as he is struggling to prepare a defence for these six generals or to help with what is happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina now, and this is a hack of all Croatian generals, all Croatian high-ranking HVO officers, both from the HVO and Croatian Army generals, where he wants to be accused of some crimes. And that's why I can't possibly understand or accept that someone without control let someone into the Croatian State Archives dig through it. I would like to see a colleague of Nazor and his colleagues get such permission that they can go to Sarajevo or that they can go to Banja Luka and draw documents and work in the same way, actually materials for indictments or prepare defenses. I'm glad that, apart from perhaps one or two debates today, this debate has gone towards one common goal. I sincerely hope when the draft budget is that then we will think the same way because Mr. Nazor and his colleagues have come to the level when without stronger financial and material assistance very difficult to do something more. However, we were all proud and happy when she was released of the verdict for our generals, without the scientific and methodological clear work of the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre that would not have happened. I sincerely hope so that the basis of these materials and materials of the Centre of Documentation in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be the same verdict for six generals awaiting a second-degree verdict at this time in The Hague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1213	Thank you very much. We've got plenty of replicas. She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's my colleague Shuker said that politics is not necessary in these topics. Of course not, but you immediately politicized everything in your first part of the speech. I agree in one piece that we need to be together and complicated, that we need to help our center, that we need to help people who promote the Homeland War as for example. Here's the war cameraman, Peter Malbash. But I'm sorry you didn't say that when you were in two, three terms when you treated the Homeland War terribly badly and those heroes who later ended up in The Hague, but only because the paperwork was given to the president's office, from the office of the then government. So one of the servants' absolute policies was being conducted, and that's why these people ended up doing it. The promotion of the Homeland War could have been done by people, but no government has ever done so far on this side, and neither has yours given much support to people who had anything to show and the truth because they were people from the field, either with a camera or anything Mr. Nazor does means scientific. So I'm asking you in the future not to make any politics about this because you've had time to help, and this time we really need to help without politics and without switching from left to right. You've spent a similar policy until recently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1215	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1216	Comrade Bulj, I'm the man who discusses the stage of the argument, and you're here on your own right now saying what you said. I sincerely hope we fight together in the future to make these things as they are made. However, when you say that someone didn't take care of Croatian defenders, so in 2003, so at the end of 2003, only a little bit of me, I didn't tell you, the Croatian defenders' budget was 2 billion at the end of 2011 was over 6.5 billion. The defence of Croatian generals was also financed from the Croatian budget, so at the position of the Ministry of Justice. And therefore, let's not talk casually, and if I say the facts I don't, politics is when you comment without arguments, and when you express political views it's something else entirely. However, I always speak with arguments in this home, and my colleagues know this from the left, so we don't generally even conflict, I'm conflicting with arguments and I'm asking nicely. But I've never been involved in politics because simply finances don't tolerate politics, but I know well how much money has been invested in certain things, and so please don't give me a flat-rate assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1217	The replica of the esteemed representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1218	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The basic mission and role of this documentation centre, of course, is to explore, document and communicate the truth about the Homeland War. So of course I agree with my colleague Shuker that this centre should be helped both organisationally and financially and logistically so that he can respond to this mission. However, communication of truth is not only at this center nor at similar centres, communication of truth is on all of us, in all of Croatia's politics here and here and in both countries and in emigration. If that were the case, and that time was not an ally, as I could hear in a previous debate, the reality we are facing, so I am going back to the verdict, or qualifications from The Hague. Highly or one of the UN tribunal's top officials a few days ago, on the question why the process of Mr Prlic and six Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina lasts so long because for your information, the second-degree verdict is expected only in 2017... Answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the most complicated process the Hague tribunal has had. Please, nice. This is the most complicated process, so the professor of economics, the liaison officer for the exchange of prisoners and the most complicated process is not Slobodan Milosevic, his associates, promoters and contractors of a major Serbian project that is being prepared... 10 years before the war itself and which left bloody traces of Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that fact itself tells itself that this truth did not come where it should come from and that I am not talking about a qualification in which the indictment mentions all the members of HVO, HDZ and associated persons, so I, who was also a member of the HDZ, that is, I am still, who, a doctor, was the highest professional capacity to invest in the treatment of all, not just Croats, so we are all ultimately, if this qualification were to remain on some kind of suspicion if not the charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1219	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1220	A fellow Ljubic, just a few things I would like to say when it comes to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the historical truth is that today in Bosnia's Posavina, the Croats are practically gone. The historical truth is that King's Sutjesk and central Bosnia, where Croatian kings tabled that there are Croats there today in the minority. The historical truth is that because of all this, because of the condemnation and attempt to Satanise the Croatian people, the situation with the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is today. So the people of Bosnia Posavina didn't go because they were doing it, they went through Yugoslavia to Germany and around the world but they went back there and they unfortunately went and they didn't come back. And when you pass through the Republika Srpska area, then you will see that someone there has practically mutilated ethnic cleansing. Because all those spaces, here's my colleague Leko and I had the opportunity together, he as Parliament president led the delegation of all those spaces we saw together, where the Croats for centuries were unfortunately the conditions there didn't create for them to return there, there were roads that this morning were tracked down so that we and the car could get up there. But it is all because of these convictions and judgments and that is why this documentation centre in Bosnia and Herzegovina is very important only to make the truth because we have to face the truth whether it suits us or doesn't suit us, but the truth is true because this is not happening to us today in Croatia to discuss '45. Because someone has served their truth that has nothing to do with the reality of life, this must not happen to us with the Homeland War either in Croatia or in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so care about this DDocumentation Centre must be particularly important in the Croatians' office outside Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1221	Now it will be replicated by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Dear Representative Shuker, of course, I fully agree with the debate you've been having, but I would like to point out something that you haven't emphasized, therefore all the past belongs to history. Let's not do segments. Our differences, political, interesting and any need to be realized in the interest of Croatia as constants, it keeps us together. But by respecting all the processes of its creation throughout history, all the processes of its creation throughout history do not diminish either one or the other. We boast in Croatia that we have a Parliament for over 1,000 years as a feature of statehood. So all the people in their time participated and worked to create Croatia. Of course, neither Croatian politics, nor Croatian MPs, nor the Croatian Parliament must be naive, nothing can be realized in itself. We must act within national interests and state interests, of course everyone knows that neither national nor state interests can be achieved within the state itself. That's why there's foreign policy. It's really important to get to the truth, and now we're going back to this. It is unusually important that the memorial-documentation centre works according to the rules of the legion of artis, professions, sciences no matter how much she has ever contributed to us. That's why it's really worth getting a report from the memory-documentation centre as often as possible and it doesn't have to be a year. It sometimes meets something that can be important to us even if it's three months old. It can encourage policy to act actively. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1223	Thank you. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1224	Well, my colleague, I'm glad, I'm glad we're getting along. No, I'm not talking about what we just said, so that's what we're talking about, right? It was the object of the replica. However, several times in my debate, I pointed out a high degree of scientific approach and I think something missed or didn't want to be apostrophe, which is when Mr. Nazor spoke about the methodology. Because when you set one thing methodologically clear, then there can't be speculation like this, speculation like that, but you just look at processes and events with exactly the same eyes. And that's what's very important, because if we're going to look at things that way, then there's going to be no room for political bickering, and it's a matter of political will for someone who's going to be given one or another right. But the key problem is that we forgot that we were in '91. We didn't have an enormous force against ourselves, but we had trained people who certainly knew how to frame the story of war crimes. And I think that's the key thing, and we've been ignorant about it. I'll tell you one example. My brigade then the tenth, and a hundred and fifty-thirds later crossed the Cup and came to Poupska Slatina and found three masquerade old men there. I was then president of the Crisis Staff with these pictures walking from the hotel "and" to the next, however, nowhere later I saw that someone had given the importance of processing that crime. While at the same time some things were getting high until I don't know what. And there may now be a problem of certain institutions in Croatia dealing with this business, but not on scientific and not on a clear methodological basis, and then this is all that happens. And then when politics gets involved, it's really chaos.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1225	Thank you. It will now be replicated by the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic:
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1226	You say a colleague and it is true that everyone in Croatia was happy when the generals returned. And so one thing, one feeling like that, it didn't come to a standstill, and he was really honest, and we all agree on that. However, if the generals were given in 1998, they would not have left. While some were wanted during Racan's government, the generals did not leave, and during the rule of Zoran Milanovic they returned freely to Croatia and their defences, top lawyers thanked the government for the documentation provided by the defence and which was of great importance to contribute to a liberating verdict. Just nod your head, and you stay put and concentrate, you won't transfer. I like to keep you here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1227	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1228	counterpart Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic, if I am not mistaken, your coalition has almost fallen apart because of the government's relationship with The Hague. And if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Budisha and a large part of the HSLS left the government because there were some swindles with the material. The other thing is, if I'm not mistaken in the presidential office, and HDZ hasn't released anyone in the archives, he hasn't sent any materials to London or anywhere. That's the facts. And the other thing Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinovic should know that the defence process of Croatian generals ended long before Zoran Milanovic arrived and it was funded and prepared by one completely different government, with circumstances being the HDZ government. So let's let go of stories like this, who this is, who that is. But I say, remember then, or you were on the verge of becoming Minister of Justice, we were here together in the Parliament when there were reasons why Drazen Budisha left the then coalition government of Ivica Racan. You know exactly why it was. The only reason was because of a non-transparent, I'm going to use that term, I'm not going to use a more difficult expression of the government's policy towards The Hague at the time. And you know very well how the documents were dealt and how the documents went.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1229	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative, Dragica Zgrebec, will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, you have launched in one part of your debate and the question of how the Homeland War was presented historically in our textbooks, that is, how many of our children in schools learn about it. And I'll agree with you here, because a people who don't appreciate, doesn't respect their past, doesn't have a present, doesn't have a good future. The Croats are among the few nations who have never in their history sown for foreign territory. So, always if they fought or fought for other people's interests because they were under other governments or they were defending their territory. And that's why I don't think politics should make history. We can approach ideologically in different ways here anyway, but historians are the ones who should really evaluate history. And in every country, children, or people learn about their national history the most because it is not just a matter of one nation’s own self. It's also a question of general culture. And therefore, without certain ideological discussions, that is to say, when the textbooks of history are spoken about Croatian history, from its medieval states, from the Pacta Convention to the folk-freedom struggle in which the Croats were true on several sides, until the Homeland War in which the Croats were first on one side for the first time in their history.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1231	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1232	Comrade Zgrebec, I fully agree with you. I just mentioned one segment about NOB as far as it was represented in history books, and as far as we don't have in history books, our kids don't have a way to learn from it. And that's why I said a commendable move to what's going on in Vukovar. Because we can just say it whatever we want, but they don't get all the kids in the house the exact same information. But I think that all of us here today who have discussed the Homeland War are practically in the same position. And so I see no reason if we are in the same positions that we are sending textbooks that someone in Belgrade is reviewing whether some historical fact or, let's say, I'm now going to say open to the end of the tragedy is, the tragedy that the Croatian state from the budget of the Croatian Office outside of Croatia is funding the translation of books in Subotica in which the Storm is said to have been a criminal genocide action. So it's a tragedy. We will finance the books of children of Croats in Vojvodina to have them but we cannot finance a book that falsifies history. It's something that just can't happen. But this happened that the Croatian Office was outside of Croatia and neither the government reacted nor anyone reacted. We are on the Committee for Croats outside Croatia had it, but it is a fact. And I think that the SDP colleagues who were there on most boards had nothing to do with having to react to that. So, with our money, we paid for someone to serve us historical untruth and historical falsification. That's what can't happen. But let us therefore give our children in Croatian textbooks a historical truth based on scientific studies on the same methodology and then simply we will not have any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1233	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1234	Thank you, Mr. President. In your discussion, you mentioned archives, the role of archives in the determination of truth. What is a fact and what should be said about this, i.e. opening probably a special debate that happened in 2000, in fact, there is no record of what was delivered to The Hague by President Tudjman's Office in that period of early 2000. What happened next was that some media were selectively receiving these materials although in fact The Hague had an obligation not to allow anyone these approaches because it was regulated by the relations between the Republic of Croatia and The Hague. The fact is that scientists and researchers today, historians do not have the opportunity to access these documents, regardless of what those media who wanted to manipulate and who manipulated the truth about the Homeland War had in mind and published them, but you simply do not officially have access to these documents. As far as I am aware of this contract, the Hague Prosecutor's Office or the Hague Court must return all these documents to the Republic of Croatia. In my opinion, since we are talking about the fact that there is no doubt about this policy and what kind of policy it has been and what a dubious Homeland War it would be good to agree, find legal frameworks for these archives to open up to the public, or that these archives become a common good for researching modern history. But it would also be good for the judiciary and the State's Attorney's Office to find the strength to answer why this manipulation occurred and who is responsible for manipulating these documents so that both the Homeland War and Croatian politics could be stagmatised for years in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1235	They will respond to the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1236	Comrade Tudjman, the late President Tudjman as a historian in his work of science has learned something, which is that all events must be recorded. For the simple reason that in some future times, someone doesn't say that to him. And if it is, that someone wanted to do something bad from the war through privatisation, etc. Well, not all those phonograms from all those meetings would be neatly arranged and classified in the President's office. Now tell me if you were going to do something wrong, then who's going to write it down and let someone use it tomorrow and say he wanted to do it? However, the second is a pair of shoes that we have twice allowed in our history to pounce on our archives without control and without anything and to abuse it against the Croats. One thing was then, and the other was when we released a team from BiH into the State Archives that they were waiting for and now they're using a lot of these materials to press charges against Croatian generals in BiH. It's facts you can't escape from. At the same time, our scientists can't get those papers. And that's our problem. And our future and our bickering will disappear at the moment when scientists do scientific work on certain areas and when it is recorded in such a way. As long as we don't do that, we will unfortunately be exposed to various pressures and attacks, above all, as a people. Whether in Croatia or in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1237	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1238	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, here's a lot you've talked about on this subject and I agree with most of what you've been talking about, but I can't agree with you when you said that today in society too little talk about the Homeland War. Not at all! And here in today's House we see how many speakers and how much we talked about the Homeland War. As far as I know in VII. We talked a lot about everything and the subject. And there's gonna be a lot of talk on this subject in the eighth session, because I see there's a lot of Homeland War Generals, there's a lot of Homeland War veterans, and here I am, in the end. And I think there's going to be a lot of words in this eighth term. When you talked about it and compared what we used to say about those countries and learn about the Sutjesca and Neretva history, they probably exaggerated us about these historical facts of World War II. But I can't agree that today among children and schools, there's not much talk about the Homeland War. I think there's a lot of talk, and there's colleagues who are both school principals and teachers, and I think there's a lot of talk. And not to mention that every school is almost as a rule obliged to go to Vukovar once a year, which is absolutely normal and desirable, and here I think a lot of things have been done. I'm not going to talk, I'm only talking about the last four years, and absolutely certainly this government supports that kind of thing, too. And I don't know any serious politician who hasn't been to Vukovar I'd say in that sacred place of Croatian history. And I think we're talking a lot about the Homeland War, and we need to keep talking. I think it's a sacred thing, and saying that it's not enough can always be done more, it can always be done more, but I think we're talking enough about the Homeland War and children don't need to be literally burdened with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1239	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My friend Prelec, we obviously didn't understand each other. When I was talking about too little then I was talking about textbooks in our primary schools. And I personally believe that the Homeland War was not processed in an adequate way. That our children from these textbooks can't get the foundations of some basic education from a part of Croatian history that I think would be the brightest and brightest because we finally got to our country. So I think it's too little worked out in those books. You may consider it not. So it's a matter of divergence, but you also remember that some current ministers are mentioned in the historical books of the Republic of Croatia. And I guess every history will be served after a while, but I'm saying what happened with Vukovar is commendable. But I repeat the hour of history on the Day of Fall of Vukovar must be made mandatory in Croatian schools. That's what I was saying when we were in power to understand each other. That's my opinion, I'm talking about it individually, and that's my thinking. What would it cost us to start that day at 10 o'clock or when the column moves towards the cemetery from the Vukovar hospital to start an hour of history in all Croatian schools? Would that cost us anything? Do you think we could hurt someone with that? Are they killed on the Sheepdogs who were taken from the Vukovar hospital, is that a lie, a lie? So, the moment the column from Vukovar Hospital starts, the hour of history should begin in all Croatian schools. It's my opinion and thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1241	Thank you very much. And now here's a word has a representative of the applicant the distinguished doctor Ante Nazor, director of the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1242	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs here I am proud whenever I am in this highest, home where the highest body of the Croatian people is. I'm a little sad when and about such topics as the Homeland War is talking about from a different perspective, but I'm going to look back here at some things that I can't cross as a historian but not as a man. I will speak in that order as I have written them, and above all, allow me if I forget to thank Mrs. Rusak's presidents, presidents of the Committee on Science, Education and Education and all the members, the President of the Veterans Committee, Mr. Demi and all the members, to thank all of you who have spoken but also to all of you who have listened very carefully to all this time at the support of our center, and it is my pleasure to be the director of such an institution, which I still believe is a consensus in the Croatian people, that it is a problem for those who are dealing with the clean and that the Homeland War is indeed the foundation of the modern Republic. All these years I've had and our center has had your support and I thank you for that. Neither I myself nor my colleagues would be able to cooperate without any cooperation with other scientific institutions, archival institutions. Here is the museum in Dubrovnik, there is in Vukovar, not to mention, Mr. Ronko mentioned associations we work with and work with. Thus, the subject is that there are many questions that still need to be answered in a scientific way. There's nothing we can do without the documents, it's a big problem and today it's a day to get some documents first of all to the documents from the president's office. Mr. Tudjman talked about it, and that's the problem today. I'm not going in here but really at some point this country is either the one who's been deciding on a lot of things hasn't acted stately. And many documents were available there that shouldn't have been and in the way they shouldn't have been, and we who deal with it so that we could make some conclusions couldn't get to those documents. I'm not judging anyone here. And here I'm going to talk about the facts, we often talk about the truth, and I use that word of truth, but actually, as a scientist and as a director of this center, it's a responsibility for the fact that what is in the sources we present, and then on that basis, we're going to have to draw conclusions, so we have to distinguish written original documents from the memory material. There may be something said which may be subjective but we simply and that part of the material must be collected also because secondary material is important but also because of respect for all those who fought and gave something for this Croatia have the right to say how they did it. What am I saying? That our sources are the foundation, but that even in those sources, some mistakes can be stolen. Here I am building on responsibility that we are today or that tomorrow we will bring some final truth but that we will also work to collect as many facts as possible, or sources, and we will continue to do so. There's been a talk about the victims, and we need to be very clear here. Victims should be respected, these criteria must be equal and there we must be credible. I said the same thing a few times here and in this place, same as in '41 and '45. As in '91, so is '95. And it's already been said here that all crimes must be condemned. We can talk about circumstances, but it's a crime, and we agree on that. And today, when it's a day of memory of Holocaust victims, maybe it's a special occasion to point out, I think that academic Rudan said everything about it and that I have nothing to add but our constitution is very clear there. But I'm equally obliged to warn you, and it's been since the '90s, '91. years present in the Croatian public that someone has tried and today is trying to show things to the kind of people they weren't. We are aware that the Labrador group did not accidentally put explosives in front of the Jewish municipality in front of the Jewish cemetery to show Croatia as some kind of anti-Semitist state. And we've been dealing with this kind of work all these years, and when we talk about the distortion of history that was here, we can track it right through part of the media, and that's where I'm going to devote myself to part of the organizations that work, and that's where I want to be very clear. I'm talking about the facts that are distorted. I have said many times that I support the work of NGOs and that I believe that they are necessary for every society as a correction of society. But we came into a situation where they would impose themselves on us as the voice of science and that in the media or the work of the media, and especially on those media who had the largest circulation and who were, which were the public media, almost didn't exist. We can check that very easily in the most visible shows, in the shock shows look at how many scientists, how many participants there were, we talked about BiH here. Why do these generals not have a chance to explain on Sunday in the 2nd Croatian public what happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Why do we have people who have no qualifications for what they say, who were not interested in facts, who were not interested in sources, who had sources in their hands but said otherwise. I don't speak here on the basis of prejudice, I stress, but based on the experience of working with certain associations. And when I call an association like the Document, then I don't do it because of prejudice, but because of the very clear relationships we've had. I don't know if you're familiar with the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War has given the Documenta DVD with lists of victims of Serb soldiers and civilians in the Banovina area. We also have a report on the handover. When did that association put it in her reports? I'm talking about responsibility and professional relationships here, not generalizing speaking very clearly, speaking very precisely. As possible, there was a reference to the fact that the number of 22,000 burning houses is spinning through the media and through the leaders of the association when the source very clearly shows that the observed houses are involved. Where did such a replacement take place, and how did she stay in public for so long? How is it possible that the story of the non-selective and excessive shelling of Knin was spinning and we gave an insight into the Serbian Army's Chief Staff document as early as 10 a.m. dropped a grenade on Knin and where it fell? I speak very clearly, very precisely, not generalizing and not speaking with prejudice. So I'd have to stress these things again and again. And there's this list, forgive me, I have a little problem with my throat, a list of victims, our center was founded in 2005, someone was doing something before us, we just collected material from all the ministries and we're trying to update it, we're trying to get to the final number, and we're very careful because it's about the dead people. And I repeat, thanks to the Ministry of Defence, thanks to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health that worked on it we today have that list of defenders almost 100% solved, the problem is with civilians, solved. And it bothered me terribly all these years when, again, the same people from the same association kept saying that no one was interested in Serbian victims. Since the first day of our centre's work, a database has been launched where every dead member of the Serbian army of Krajina or civilian has been enrolling since 2005 they know it because they got it, they got a report on it for one area. So we're not against cooperation, but we simply can't, yet we're a serious institution we can't co-operate with those who aren't interested in facts and we'd like to face facts. Fortunately, the Hague verdict was very clear, and according to Academyman Zvonko Kusic, president of the HAZU on one anniversary of the 10 years of the work of our centre, the Hague verdict is a satisfaction of the work of our center, so I would no longer explain it. After all, excellent cooperation is precisely with the Serbian Helsinki Committee, Mrs Sonja Biserko is an example of how it is done. And it is interesting that we have said that Serbia is responsible for the war and aggression heard from the president of the Serbian Helsinki Committee and never told the leaders of the Document Association about such a sentence. That's why my focus is on this, I repeat, not because of prejudice, but because of the negative experience we've had in the work and relations with that not government association. I would make it very clear that this archive that we have available to everyone who wants to explore the history of the Homeland War, no one has ever had a problem for when they asked for an insight into the material that our center keeps. The truth is, nothing is black white, everything needs to be discussed, and our center has never escaped from negative data, from the crimes of members of the Croatian forces. What we've successfully opposed is an attempt to expose the incidents to a joint criminal enterprise. We have witnessed this, and it should also be made clear. Of course this list of victims when it's final, I repeat, please very clearly it can be completed in three months, and it can take a year. It's about people and data that needs very clear and precise comparison. But we're working on it, and we're doing it responsibly, and they're doing not just our center. They worked a lot. A culture of memories that's talked about a lot, yes. We're bound to hear all sides, but we can't build a memory culture and ignore the foundations. And that's what I keep saying, and unfortunately, it went public like some kind of, like, some kind of done thing. We're not going to talk about the causes, we're going to talk about the consequences, so one of the victims on the one hand, the other side and the third side will tell us about the consequences, and that's why we're going to order something. No, we have to determine the causes first. We need to make it clear today is 2016 and even in scientific circles we are still discussing whether there was a civil war or whether there was aggression on the Republic of Croatia, whether the cause of the war is a large Serb policy or continuity or a conglomerate of bad policies, which is why we have to keep repeating some things and we will repeat them until it sits down to everyone. Because I repeat the fact that the war in Croatia was waged not to change power, but to change power, but to separate part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and join the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry I have to do this to you, I'm not saying it here because I believe you know it, but because of those who listen and who don't want to accept those facts. And this is a very important topic, the HVO material that was in the Croatian State Archives, and then we took it as a center. We don't decide about him. We're getting a warrant from the executive. The only thing we can control is what is there, but it is known who decides on it and my responsibility ends here, becomes the responsibility of politics and the state to place itself as a state to those who deny documents or extract selectively some parts from the document and seek to accuse Croatia of aggression. Here it is said, I will repeat, had it not been for Croatia, if there had been no Croats there would have been no Bosnia and Herzegovina, not just for attending the referendum. Croatia has recognised international Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia is not during the war. Croatia has defended along with members of the Bosniak Muslim people. Unfortunately, it was the stage of an unfortunate war between the BiH-HVO Army and was the release of Bosnia and Herzegovina with members of the Croatian forces. 5,000 km2 only in '95. The year was freed by Croatian forces. Why doesn't the Croatian public know anything about it? Why doesn't the Croatian public know anything about it? Why can't one of the Croats who defended and freed Bosnia and Herzegovina talk about it on public television? These are things that should be asked very clearly and asked. The truth is, Nikola Djalt's first dead member of the Fourth Guard was from central Bosnia. The last Croatian soldier killed in the Homeland War again was from Bosnia and Herzegovina's 18th 10th district of Mostar Tony Dragoje, and I think that should be clearly discussed. And here's when we finally talked about the expectation of a second-degree verdict I'm going to repeat what Mr. Ljubic pointed out. So it's not just the fate of six people defending themselves in The Hague or their families. It is the fate of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is also about Croatia's future. That verdict can be very difficult if we do not dedicate ourselves to it. The lady said, "I'll quote her, "From a sense of pride to a sense of regency, that's a painful truth." Let's remember '95. Let's remember August 5th, and let's see where we are today. I'm the only one who'd ask who's to blame? The defenders did their job, they defended Croatia, they freed Croatia, Croatia is left to politics, and then gentlemen remain responsible for someone else. Thank you for your attention, and thank you for your support, and forgive me if I've made it too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1243	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. One of those distinguished MPs is Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1244	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Someone said today education isn't all-powerful. Yeah, it's not all-powerful, but all that without education is actually powerless. We have opportunities through a curricula that is currently being developed, not just a curricula of history, but other objects to repair what we may not have done best. And all we're gonna do is work on scientific facts. I think it's a finding everyone agreed with today. Thank you very much to Mr. Nazor and everyone who has contributed to this discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1245	Thank you. They'll respond to Honorable Professor Nazor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1246	Okay, well, while I'm here, let me just fill in. We were in 2014 short to stop taking up time we launched a project together with the School Book of Teachers of History in the Homeland War. And this project was realized, so teachers also received a means by which they can teach, and of course we closely monitor what happens to the curricula and that it is now published, it is published on the web pages. And of course in the next ten, fifteen days we'll look at what's true. What I can generally say is that the number of hours in the Homeland War has increased, and the rest of the details are going to be studied and we're going to see what else needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1247	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1248	Oh, I'll be real quick. Maybe it's all gone wrong and it shouldn't spoil this atmosphere but just two short things. Civil society still needs to be seen as a partner. Of course, it can help and should help to collect data. No one spoke of scientific verification and some work by scientific organisations either have the capacity or should do so. You know who's supposed to be doing it. But I don't see what the problem is if you help with work and different sources, more and more sources can only help more. That's one thing. Secondly, Mr. Nazor said nothing was black and white. I agree with that, when he talked about the relationship of cause and consequences. You just know then it's an old question if we're... The truth, so we're looking for evidence for that truth or we're looking for the truth? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we should look for the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1249	Dr. Nazor will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1250	So we present the facts, which is why we draw conclusions and what I'm going to say at the end of this, which I can't keep quiet as a man. There was talk here, and about it, I think it's a finished story, there were really attempts to get some people into our center who didn't belong there. I did not name them or the matter was personal, I even showed understanding for them, but I think it is rude or irresponsible if the event is put into the Report of Discrimination and Violence against Serbs in 2014. I'm responsible for the person, I've been talking about it here, we've got the paperwork, and I can't allow the director of this kind of institution to apply for nationalist rhetoric. I wish there was a responsibility with the authors of such articles, which is the Report of the Serbian National Council, to make it clear where, when and what the director was saying and that it was a nationalist rhetoric. And what's false about the quotes I made? Because I repeat, it's all based on documents. And I don't think that's how we're gonna be able to establish trust. I'm just telling you about that part of civil society and NGOs that aren't interested in facts that have their own truth and then they're telling us that we're trying to construct something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-27-0.u1251	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude with this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'd be done with today's work. Tomorrow we'll start at 9.30 and it'll be like the third point you've received since the beginning, so confirmation of the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information. Thank you very much. Have a nice afternoon. Session adjourned at 17.10 p.m. Then, the next item is on which we will vote Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War for 2014. The report is submitted by the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War 2014 is hereby adopted. Please vote. The vote is over. In unanimity, therefore, 120 votes were put to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
