ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17947	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Here we go. We'll start working and see that we're looking for a break right away. Here you go, dear representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17948	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I'm looking for a 15-minute break due to HRT's relationship with the victims of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17949	Thank you. Dear Representative Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17950	Mr. Vice President. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the IDS-PGS-RI Club to discuss issues related to the issue of a solution to a regulated profession that our young people who have graduated from foreign universities face.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17951	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vard.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17952	Mr. Vice-President, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party Club, Reformist and Independent Representatives to discuss the import of bread and pastry into Croatia and the dairy bakery industry in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17953	Thank you. Anyone else? Dear Representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17954	Thank you very much. ... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17955	Thank you very much. I'll see you at 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] If you agree, I would just change the order a little bit, and since the topics are the same as colleagues Glavasevic and counterpart Mesic announced, if you agree that they are behind each other, and then your colleague Demetlika and colleague Varda, if you are in favour, will you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17957	We agree with your proposal. We suggest that Mr. Mesic be first.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17958	There's no need. We're going in the order that was here on behalf of the SDP fellow respected representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, a small 12-year-old girl was murdered in front of the Croatian public yesterday. She wasn't literally killed. It happened long before yesterday's TV calendar in which the murder took place. But that show fired a bullet in her memory. Namely, in addition to the author whose name we are not familiar with, the following words are: The murder of Aleksandra Zec was pre-named and cast a shadow of the death of more than 400 other children in the Homeland War. After these scandalous words rang the ether in the directory of HRT, a warning was given about how terrifying, how terrible words were spoken with a request not to repeat themselves. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the same contribution was broadcast again at 5:00 p.m. and so was the memory of Alexander Zec, a little innocent girl in pink pajamas, shot and thrown into a ditch at Medvednica, and another shot fired. A HDZ colleague just asked me a little bit ago why we're talking about this and why we're going back in time? Therefore, colleagues and colleagues because they continue to exist and publicly act and form messages on Croatian radio-television of people who do not understand that every child is innocent, that the memory of Alexander Rabbit is a memory of all children killed in the Homeland War, over 400 of them. Such people measure the value of human life in blood cells, say that not every innocent victim is exactly the same and give arguments. I'm having a hard time talking about this today, but I have to. I have to do it for my own victims and for all those who, like me, felt all the terrible words that were spoken yesterday. Well then, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I can only repeat the words that my colleague Bauk had already repeated yesterday, the ones standing at the Holocaust Museum. It hasn't happened again, but we're afraid it might happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17960	Thank you very much. Then on behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17961	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We didn't get a chance to see yesterday's contribution to Croatian radio-television on the TV calendar. However, according to our information, Croatian Radio-Television has issued a statement where it clearly shows that the opinion expressed in the contribution of an external co-worker on the TV calendar is not the position of the editorship of Croatian Radio-Television, that, in accordance with the internal regulations and rules, responsibility and necessary measures will be determined. It is also an apology to all those injured by that contribution, especially the families of the injured girls. Why are we talking about it in the Croatian Parliament? Because we're different from the ones who attacked us in 1991. Because we have in our society the power to condemn the events that took place during the Homeland War that were not honored. Because we have the strength and opportunity to form such a discussion where certain things can be condemned. Because we're like that, different from the ones that don't mention 400 and some of the other children of the victims of the Homeland War in our neighboring neighborhood. Because we are not the ones who deny 15 thousand victims of the Homeland War, aggression against the Republic of Croatia. That's why we're different. Because we were different to rebuilding the Jasenovac Museum, because we were working with the Holocaust museums from New York to all over Europe to Israel and getting recognitions for it. That's why we're different. We are different because we insist on public television that has its own bodies, the supervisory board, the programming board that must comply with the law. If we, colleagues and colleagues, every morning, every contribution in which many of us from the HDZ Club will find objections to relations both with the Homeland War and with World War II in the programme, and with other problems in Croatian society, then we do not need neither the Programme Council nor the Supervisory Board nor the Law on HRT. So every morning we're gonna set up a program here. I am going back to the Croatian Radio Television statement about the situation that took place. I wish such excuses had been heard, that such excuses could have been heard during the past three, four years when there was a different leadership on Croatian radio television. No way. It wasn't a chance for anyone to apologize. The chance to give you information on how the pay is shared, how the program is being set up and who is setting it up and where the external contributions are being arranged. There was no chance. Our ideal was television in the 1960s and 1970s. That's why we at the HDZ Club think that such things, very sensitive, very traumatic, tragic, sad Croatian history should be discussed in a different way. And about that case and about the case of more than 400 other children killed in the Homeland War. Not equating, not diminishing, not exaggerating, but demanding that it be presented at the public media service in an adequate manner in accordance with the law and all that it does. That's why we're different from the others. That's why this Republic is different from the others. That's because you're setting standards. Because they will not allow any case of the Rabbit or 400 children killed in the Homeland War, 15 thousand victims in the Homeland War, no media or political exploits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17962	Thank you very much. The next word will be taken on behalf of the IDS Club by the esteemed Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17963	Here's a thank you, Mr. Vice President, and respected and respected colleagues and fellow MPs. These days, i.e. For a long time we have been constantly listening to stories about the emigration of young people from Croatia, which is certainly one of the biggest problems of our country, which is what we in the IDS, PGS and the List for Rijeka fully agree on. However, I would also like to look back at the problems faced by those who want to return to their homeland, i.e. those who graduated from colleges abroad, none of them acquired and certain knowledge and wanted, decided they wanted to live and work in their homeland. Our young people who have acquired this professional foreign qualification and want to work in their profession pass through the additional process of recognising foreign professional qualifications or verifying the regulated profession that is regulated in the Republic of Croatia by the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. And that solution is issued by the Ministry of Education and Science. Namely, all these individuals have nostified diplomas and received a solution from the Agency for Science and Higher Education on the recognition of the expertise of foreign higher education qualifications. However, in order to get a job in their regulated profession, which is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science and Education, for example, a teacher in primary school, a teacher in primary school, a teacher in secondary school, a teacher in high school, a teacher in preschool, etc., must get an additional solution on the regulated profession of the Ministry of Science and Education. And then the problem arises because the process of issuing a solution to the regulated profession with the ministry lasts for over a year which is unacceptable. This is another confirmation that our state bureaucracy is slow, trompe and inefficient. In order for a solution to be issued, a commission must meet whose members are professors from our universities, each calling has its own special commission which makes up more than 20 commissions that the ministry should convene so that they can check each diploma separately. I have information that there are currently over 600 requests in the ministry. Let's say it's 10 or 12 youth buses. Committees meet very rarely because professors have their duties in colleges and the fees for these teachers as members of the commission have not been arranged until these days. It should also be noted that no implementing sublegislative act, or regulation, has been adopted which would specifically prescribe the procedure itself. And here we have information that the implementing act is written, but it is waiting to be signed and forwarded. So now we have a situation that our young people who have taken a job and who need to take the state's professional exam cannot take the same because they do not get solutions on a regulated profession, which leaves them either without a job or prolonging indefinitely to pass the state's professional exam. This prevents the work of our young people and the normal functioning of institutions that need new workers. I would like to stress that I am not against verifying the coherence of the diploma, but I am certainly against the fact that it has to wait over a year and that the whole procedure is not fully regulated and that it is not effective. I believe that the competent ministry should review the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications in order to enable the problem to be tackled effectively. It should be noted that once the examinations of the case and the whole procedure related to foreign diplomas led universities, or colleges, which certainly made the procedure faster and more efficient. We should therefore review whether this procedure can be given back to the colleges because without their verification, the ministry cannot issue a solution. I appeal to the competent ministry and the parliamentary committee to start working on this problem as soon as possible to do something to keep young people in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17964	Thank you very much and will now speak on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party esteemed representative Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17965	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd like to warn you whether you believe it or not. Yesterday, an article was published that only in this first half of this year we imported 53.5m euros in bread and pastries. We have talked so far about the import of meat, but this import of bread and pastries also brings into a very difficult position for our farmers who deal with wheat crops and crops. In fact, in this year, in a harvest that was extremely good, we had about 859 thousand tons of wheat, and for the diet of the population there are enough 465 tons, thousands of tons. The value of this 53.5m-euro import of bread and pastries is actually the equivalent of kuna total wheat consumption for the diet of the population at the annual level in Croatia. Due to such imports in this year, slightly less than 50,000 tonnes of hectares, 50 hectares of wheat land were irradiated. Yesterday, at a joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Health and Social Affairs, we also warned about this import, proposed a Minister of Agriculture whose actions we welcomed and welcomed about the quality and quality of meat and invited the Food and Ministry of Agriculture to pay attention to this import of bread and pastries of particularly frozen pastries and prepared frozen pastry products which in our trade chains Lidlu, Kaufland, etc. They just put on those ovens and you get the same doughnuts, the same pastry produced industrially. The question is how much chemistry is in that frozen dough, and that kind of pastry is mostly spent by our children right now. So it's a matter of what's going to happen to their health. On the other hand, that is why I warned of Regulation No 178 of the 2002 EU Parliament and of the Council of Europe at point 19, which allows Croatia to go right to control the quality of the products. In fact, let me read it, it is acknowledged that in some cases the scientific risk assessment itself cannot provide all information on which a risk management decision is based is already legitimate to take into account other relevant factors for the present case, including social, economic and other. So this is exactly the point that allows Croatia, as is said in Hungary and the Czech Republic, to pass the Law on unfair commercial practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u17966	Thank you very much. And now we're going to go to the agenda points, the first is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Cataster Real estate, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.40. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. Contributions to the report are not multiplied but are located on the Croatian Assembly website. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received their reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and by the representative of Peja Grbin. Does the applicant's representative want to come up with an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Lovro Kuščević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, I welcome you all. Here, as we have heard today, is before you the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates. Here's what I'd like to read a little bit of a promotion and let you know what it's all about. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that State measure law and real estate cataster of the National No. 16/07, 152/08. and the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity; the Law on the National Infrastructure of Spatial Data is laid down by jurisdiction for the establishment and management of a water catastra at the level of units of local self-government. The provision of Article 98 of the Law establishes and leads to records which are required, in accordance with the law, to be established and managed by their managers. In accordance with the provisions of Article 96 of the Law, the lines of electricity, telecommunications, water, sewerage, thermal, gas and pipeline networks shall be recorded, with other facilities to be considered to belong to them. The provision of Article 97 of the Law provides that the water cadastre contains data on species, i.e. purposes, basic technical characteristics and positions of built waterways and names and addresses of their administrators. It is also prescribed that water managers are also required to provide information on the lines they manage without compensation and within the time limits set by the unit of local self-government of the body responsible for the establishment and management of that water cadastra. The Digital Agenda is a comprehensive European Commission plan to promote economic growth through the creation of a more competitive and digitally modern Europe. By accepting the Digital Agenda, Member States have taken the obligation to provide basic broadband access to all Europeans by 2013 and to ensure that by 2020, all Europeans have access to internet speeds greater than 30 megabytes per second and that at least 50% of EU households are subscribed to internet connections over 100 megabytes per second. In order to achieve those objectives of the Digital Agenda, Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks, in the follow-up to the Directive. The Directive comes from reducing the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks to help achieve the digitisation of the public sector by expanding the impact of the digital financial leverage on all sectors of the economy by reducing the costs of public administration and providing efficient services to citizens. With this proposal, the Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Cataster is in line with the said Directive. The basic issues to be covered are: it is prescribed that the State Geodetic Authority is a single information point responsible for the collection and management of the database and for making available the infrastructure data referred to in Article 96 of this Act and for the notification of ongoing or planned construction works. In addition, the obligations of the owner, i.e. the infrastructure manager, are prescribed to provide information to the State Geodesy Administration on the infrastructure managed or owned by the owners and that network operators provide information on ongoing or planned construction works. The availability of those data should be ensured through a single information point by 1 January 2017 at the latest in accordance with the Directives, with the requirements set out in the Directive. As a single information point, the State Geodetic Authority will ensure the availability of data and the availability of data on existing physical infrastructure, as well as data on ongoing or planned construction works, which will result in a transparent and effective access to such data, as well as a reduction of costs caused by direct and indirect damages in the performance of works on physical infrastructure, and will generally achieve an increase in the efficiency of the use of existing physical infrastructure and a reduction of costs and obstacles when new construction works are carried out. This draft law will have an impact on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in terms of costs related to the construction of the information system of a single physical infrastructure database and notifications of ongoing or planned construction works at the state level estimated at a total of 50 million kuna for the period 2017 to 2022. The expected costs for 2017 are estimated at 6 million kuna and 50,000 kuna, and the funds are secured under the RDF and... The EU funds in a way that 85% of this amount is provided by funds and the rest is secured in the RS budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The cost of the remaining 43 million kuna will be allocated over the period 2018/2022. and the funds are planned to be provided in the same way as the formula. In accordance with the provisions of Article 206(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Council are to be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union and in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament we propose the adoption of this Act by an urgent procedure which is here and accepted and for that I thank you. We are available for further opinions, comments and explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22063	Thank you very much. We have one whole sequence of replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, as you have said, the Digital Agenda is a comprehensive European Commission plan to promote economic growth and through the creation of a more competitive and digitally modern Europe. By accepting the Digital Agenda, Member States have taken the obligation to provide basic broadband access to all Europeans by 2013, and to ensure that by 2020, all Europeans have access to internet connections of more than 30 megabits per second and that at least 50% of households in the European Union are overpaid to internet-bound speeds above 100 megabits per second. In order to achieve those objectives of the Digital Agenda, a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures to reduce the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks has been adopted. Furthermore, the directive, as you said, is based on the fact that reducing the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks would help achieve the digitisation of the public sector by expanding the impact of the digital financial leverage on all sectors of the economy, while reducing costs for public administration and providing more efficient services to citizens. The Directive also sets out, inter alia, the obligation for Member States to establish unique information points through which data on the existing physical infrastructure of network operators will be made available, as well as information on ongoing or planned construction works. In order to adapt to the provisions of the Directive, except in the part where it is adopted by a draft legislative regulation which regulates measures to reduce the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks. I also warn you, dear Ministers, as well as the citizens and everyone else that today is the 33rd day of shame in Jasenovac you and your Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22065	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Minister. Well, I, like my colleague Bauk, don't know much about this subject, but not to violate the Rules of Procedure and to draw as much attention to this message as possible, I'm going to stick to the subject, so I'm going to do my best to help you explain the bill as possible. With this proposal, the Law on State Measurement and the Real Estate Cataster is aligned with the Directive. The basic issues to be covered are: it is prescribed that the State Geodetic Authority is a single information point responsible for the collection and management of the database and for making available the infrastructure data referred to in Article 96 of this Act and for the notification of ongoing or planned construction works. Furthermore, the obligation of the owner, i.e. the infrastructure manager, to supply information to the State Geodetic Authority on the infrastructure managed or owned by the network operators as well as to provide information on ongoing or planned construction works. The availability of those data should be ensured through a single information point by 1 January 2017 at the latest in accordance with the requirements of the Directive. As a single information point, the State Geodetic Authority will ensure the availability of data and the availability of data in the existing physical infrastructure and data on ongoing or planned construction works, which will result in a transparent and effective access to data, as well as a reduction of costs caused by direct and indirect damages in the performance of works on physical infrastructure and will generally achieve an increase in the efficiency of the use of existing physical infrastructure and the reduction of costs and obstacles in the execution of new construction works. Here in this explanation it says that this bill, the Law on State Measurement and the Real Estate Catastrophe is in line with the directive, I wonder when the procedures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be brought into line with the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. and when will stop the shame in Jasenovac that lasts today on Day 33 or it is a permanent solution. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22067	Thank you very much. I'll tell you what I told your colleagues from your party yesterday. So you did not break even the Rules of Procedure you did not break even parliamentary practice because this is from the history of parliamentary practice such an approach is known. But my deep belief that you didn't contribute to the dignity of this House, or to the message you wanted to deliver. Because if you wanted to, you could have handed over here during a break to the public that message, you could have called at any moment a press conference. My deep belief that performing performance in this hall for any reason and with any motive, is destroying the dignity of all of us together, and it doesn't help anyone who actually wants to deliver a message to the public. But good. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. I'm going to read this part too but without these additional elements and just about this part. In fact, I think that the Geodetic Administration and the Catastres should be more connected to local self-government and to the other side, not only from local self-government towards the disaster, but also from the disaster to the local self-government. And I just want to point out one little flaw here, one problem that we're facing. Therefore, in the assessment of the situation, it shall read ‘the provision of Article 98(2). The law prescribes that water managers are obliged to provide information on the lines they manage without compensation and within the time limits set by the unit of local self-government." I agree, it's a normal thing to give those data without compensation because they are useful to everyone, especially to the citizens. But I don't agree with the fact that local self-government afterwards has to buy information from the Geodesy Administration's cadastre. So I ask you to keep this in mind and to enable local self-governments in some way if this system succeeds in establishing and if it becomes so operational that it can be entered that local self-government can see and practically use the data on its condition on the ground in an adequate way, and not to buy, and that I am not talking about a long process of solving, and probably because of certain staff deficiencies and insufficient number in the disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22069	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister. Here are the HSS and I, of course, personally support the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European directives, so if it is necessary and urgent, although we see that we have lost for a year, a year and a half, but through this harmonisation we see that in the preparation of this law we have implemented and debate with the interested public what I welcome, but on a number of issues raised by economic operators who are not satisfied with the answer, so I want to repeat their questions because it is our wish that all of us that the new legislation should not be a new barrier and a new cost to Croatia's economy, especially those affected by this law. So some gas companies have referred you to public debate issues that are not satisfied with the answer because exactly what Mr. Hrg said in his previous investments, they have collected data themselves, kept records and had certain costs. And now these data will, without compensation, be handed over to a single information point or to the State Geodetic Authority, and they disagree, and in particular disagree with that part that any new change and change must inform the single point of the State Geodetic Authority, but still have to order a new geodetic elaborate for every meter of changes. So here's if you can answer these questions because in your answer it's said that this will be regulated by a rule that will clarify the application of this law. But when there's going to be a rulebook and why it's not part of the rulebook, it's put into law, so there wouldn't be so many ambiguities and questions. I'd like to repeat this if then the local self-government unit that was obliged to keep a record of the infrastructure in its area, and only six of them did it. Why did only six units of local self-government do that? And this will, of course, make it difficult to collect data or that units of local self-government do not have to buy that data again or whether you are going to enable further co-financing, to sort out cadastras on local self-government units, which is so far done, I think should continue with that practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22071	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22072	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. So my replica goes in the same direction as the units of local self-government according to the provisions of this law. So I remember that little boy from the movie "The Train in the Snow", he says we're not the two of us lost, but these are the other ones. So do we. It's not that we're late, it's that Europe is running a little bit. This law should certainly be supported because it will probably contribute to a better one. What counterpart Lackovic has now mentioned only six units have made a cadastre of water. Careful, the cemetery catastre is difficult to build, let alone the water cadastre, for this it needs certain administrative and financial capacities. If this is going to be a unique database at the Geodetic Authority, do you think about then removing responsibility from the units of local self-government or that they only use the base as a finished base. Therefore, according to the provisions of Article 95, they are obliged to lead, units of local self-government, and only six have made them. So, in the future, you need to think that way. If the units of local self-government can't do it, the truth here is, that's what counterpart Lackovic said, this is where the water managers rebel because this is going to go to their expense. They claim they've already surrendered I don't know four, five elaborates, so now they have to make another one and translate all that data into digital form. However, I must say that many of them, when installing water, did not quite get the project documentation, and often they violated property-legal relations. So they entered the property because they weren't allowed to, without compensation, watch out! There's that, too. Often when they come to do your work, they ask where our waters are, they don't know that either. I don't say all, but one good part. However, they will certainly bear the costs, is that justly so you have decided, but I ask you to take care of the units of local self-government that their costs do not increase, that perhaps the provisions of this law change in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22073	Thank you. Now we're going to move on to representatives' clubs. I mean, excuse me, first of all, does the committee reporter want to take the floor? I don't think so, so I'm going to open the debate and on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, the HSU will take the word from the distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister Kuščević and Assistant Rezo, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Catastrophe of Real estate. This law covers three subjects roughly, so in my debate, I will hold a debate on these three topics. The first topic is really related to the record of the water catastra, i.e. about data and about importance. So there is another directive of the European Union that is extremely important and important, that is the INSPIRE Directive. Based on this directive there somewhere in 2014 the Law on the National Infrastructure of Spatial Data which says by law that spatial data must be made publicly available to all in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but also to all members of the European Union. The spatial data is all your data. Let's say how many children were born, data on how many children were enrolled in the first grade of primary school. The same information as how many waternets were created, how many drains were made, how many power grids were created, and the contact point for this is the State Geodetic Authority. Even more so, there is a body that manages the team to record all these data and equally what is important and significant, and what has already been shown in the replicas, that these data are publicly available. So, the purpose of the state administration is that the data it collects, which it records, is publicly available. You know, I'm there as a young engineer many years ago, there was one technical review and the condition for an usable permit was that you had pre-recorded all the lines and that you had to hand over the recording of all the lines and that they had to be handed over to the cadastre. You have a castle of the city of Zagreb which makes excellent records, where all the waters are recorded and when someone in the city of Zagreb is going to work he can know all about it. As much as those who remember for a little while as I do, they may remember when Inportanne was made, so that inportanne at the main station that was built in the underground, and then the theme was put up and set up the problem of the underground catastra. I think we've come to the point that apart from the ground floor catastra, there's supposed to be a catastrophe of the underworld because there's really a lot going on in the underworld. But as we have many times had opportunities to speak here and say: Croatia has 556 units of local self-government. And as we're all different here, so are the 556 units of local self-government. Someone has capacity, someone has a real number and employees, and knowledge and experience that can do it, someone unfortunately doesn't. However, no matter when you pass through Croatia, then you remain surprised, there are indeed cadastres that lead it. You have a great catastre that I'm going to use this opportunity to praise, it's a cadastre in Vukovar-Srijem County. They have an excellent cadastre, they have a perfectly recorded existing state, they have excellent record of both water cadastres, and there when someone builds they can really know with a lot of certainty what it is about. But you do have catastres that don't do it properly. Therefore, whenever we come up with such a proposal for a law that is good, which is correct, where we comply with European Union directives, we must take this opportunity regardless of the European Union directives. When it comes to spatial indicators, spatial data we have good experience and good knowledge. But really how different the state is we have different situations. What you need to know is that the water catastres, as managers and owners here say, have been driven in different ways. It was run somewhere by local self-government units. All companies, regardless of whether public, owned by the state as, I don't know, Janaf, Plinacro, have special geodetic services that record their waters. Equally, utility companies have the same thing. But then it turns out that everyone's recording, everyone's recording, but we don't have one place to unite. And this law says this way: there must be one place that unites it. I am absolutely certain that this place is as a control point of the State Geodetic Administration, but in reality the competent office for the cadastre. Now we're talking to another group, or another topic that opened here, the application of the beginning of the papers. We were all participants, I'm not going to tell the participants, but we absolutely had a chance to see and there's no one who hasn't wondered, the street is reconstructed, the water's set up, it's swindling, it's been three months, there's someone digging. And then we all ask why he digs, what he does, what he now remembers after three months to dig. It's actually your mutual non-coordination. And that's what I'm talking about, everyone records, everyone records for themselves, in their backyard in their own house, but it doesn't unite. And that's why it's a good thing we've got provisions here telling us how to start work. Not even the application of the beginning of the work, but the intention of doing something. So that when it comes to municipal infrastructure, that is, pipelines and underground infrastructure, it is to coordinate water, drain, gas, telecommunications, to know when who does what. I'm in the debate on both committees and I repeat that this time, I said and said the next one, and that would be convenient to know, some kind of, so everybody has a work plan, so maybe we should tie it to the work plan because when the application starts, it's already over. But all utility companies, so everyone who manages the pipelines, have some kind of work plan to do besides extreme situations in the next three years, of 10 years, of 4 years, so that it would be convenient to tie it up but it's obviously a subject for another time. But also when someone plans their four-year projects, when they know what they're going to do in 4 years compared to the waters. It would be really convenient to report it to the contact point then so everyone knows all about it. This is another step forward and it is that really no longer anyone keeps in their backyard, in their house what they have, that is in one place and that we all know all about it. I will return to this topic with which I started, which is the Law on national infrastructure and spatial data, i.e. INSPIRE Directive. It's relatively slow, still unrecorded. This means as well as a series of laws that we have had the opportunity to talk and talk about there is another topic, one obligation really is for people to contact the state geodetic administration, to fill in their data, to make the data really publicly available and to have all the opportunities to see them. And there is another third topic that the minister did not mention in the opening statement and I would like to mention, the third topic is your Article 2 where the commission is established. I was preparing for this debate to see if otherwise in the laws we had defined that a commission would be set up to do certain jobs and receive a certain fee. I couldn't find it in any law. That commission means parafiscal intrusion. We had opportunities from the prime minister when he was talking about the work programme, we had opportunities and yesterday was the Public Procurement Act, or the day before yesterday, I apologize, or when the Deputy Prime Minister also spoke when it came to public procurement there was no more tax when he applied and said that all parafiscal imposes would be abolished and we are now introducing a new parafiscal impose. Let me explain what this is about. It's about the next situation. I see these mayors and mayors and they'll know what I'm talking about. It is natural, so a new measure is going, a new measure is being taken, so that the new measurement can be carried out properly in the catastrus and then in the grantovnica, of course, people from the State Geodetic Authority, from the catastrophe and also from the grantonics. And now, in relation to the grants, the commissions are formed, these commissions are not defined by law, but they are commissions, and if they work outside of working hours, they generally work outside of working hours, they get a certain fee. This fee was not related to colleagues working from the catastre and there was all the time and there was a dispute why these get compensation, they don't get, the catastre goes its own way, the grantine is late. If any measure is made, and that measurement stands for a year, after a year believe me, she's out of date. After a year, this measurement is no longer valid because there have already been other situations in the space, and of course this measurement should be done differently in a particular section. And now for the first time in the law we have a commission, the commission will make colleagues who do normal work in the cataster, that is, in the state geodetic administration and for the afternoon when they will work, so outside of working hours there will be a commission and they will receive a certain fee. It's absolutely a parafiscal intrusion. So if it's decided so, and if it's concluded that there aren't enough people, that people need to work and otherwise, I don't have any problem but I have a problem when we're talking, we're going to lift parafiscal burdens, we're going to reduce everything together, and then for the first time in the law, we put one such commission, and we need to be aware that we have that. All of us who were at the head of the ministry like myself and Minister Kuščević, surely now encounter the problem of insufficient numbers of people and there is no one, there is also former ministers and mayors and mayors and you know that the problem of people is a big problem, that the problem of professional people gets in public administration, that the problem and that the wages are always less, that the problem and employment is when and you can ensure that the problem of employment is a big problem but then you should say it out loud, say that then it will be regulated in this way. And don't talk to each other and do the other. It's final. We are in line with EU directives. I absolutely have a problem with this article 2 and in that sense I will give an amendment which will probably, as usual, be rejected but I would like you to just think about it a little bit. And the law is fine, correct, absolutely in that sense it should be supported. But what's important, it's important to ensure the instruments and themes that the law is implemented, that we really don't have one place to have all the indicators we need to have. But equally, it will be extremely important for the third time, and for the third time I quote an INSPIRE directive that says spatial indicators and spatial data after they are recorded must be made publicly available and we should insist on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22075	Thank you very much. He had a few replicas. She is the rightful representative of Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I also think that this law is good and correct and that it should be adopted as such. And I think this is actually a package of laws from last week when we discussed the law on measures to reduce the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks. What prompted me to give you a replica and ask you this is the following: Article 96. The Water Cataster Act DGU will record the water supply of electricity, telecommunications, water, sewerage, hot water, gas and pipeline networks. So all the possible water we have in this country will be recorded in one information site of DGU and what we will try and with the previous law anything we can use to set optical cables and everything else. And that's something truly commendable. What I want to ask, notice and ask for your comment and then, if possible, the minister's comment given that such a set of data in one place can indeed be said that this is a wealth absolutely and these are however they turn these are public data. Data belonging to the state of the Republic of Croatia even under the State Information Infrastructure Act are the same data as the property of the Republic of Croatia. Now we know DGU collects access to data that they publish in different ways, and yet here we have a story that it is public data, we have a story about the Law on the right to access information and several European directives. In the Republic of Croatia we also have a portal of open data days.gov.hr. My question and my dilemma is whether these data will be published in some way on that open data portal or whether it will be available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in some kind of electronic form as already or exclusively and just let's just say with them work through charging and all other things interested parties. Here, thank you. I personally think they should be available to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22077	Thank you. They will answer the respected Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22078	... Now I've turned it on. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] A fellow Paric exactly like that, you know when we have a few laws then these laws must be mutually consistent. We have a law on national infrastructure of spatial data or a shortened NIP law. It's one of those laws where it would be in Parliament and absolutely I would say by acclaim and he says that all data spatially planned data must be publicly available. The information on the lines must also be made publicly available except for those who are secret. There we can discuss classified information when it comes to pipelines, so the data that's important to national security because national security can be your secret. But all long data must be publicly available, available to all citizens not only of the Republic of Croatia but of all citizens and the EU. You know very well that everything that happens in space, you have had the opportunity to see now about the Pelješki Bridge, so look who will compete, so all countries not only the EU but also outside, and they must have data when anything they intend on in the area of the Republic of Croatia is interested. That's how this information will be made publicly available. So this idea that something is being charged won't go as such, it won't, I can see that my colleague Rezo is also air-conditioned because he knows what I'm talking about, and the minister won't be able to function in a way to charge, but he'll have to be publicly available and everyone will be able to get that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22079	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, of course, that this is a matter in which you are extremely well understood but I have come to the replica in fact to clarify your position on this part, which you mentioned that Croatia has very many units of local self-government and that in principle it is not to expect all units of local self-government to be able to do this in the same way. I personally think that in this case it is not a mistake, that absolutely these units of local self-government can be a good partner to the state institutions that need to do so but that these units of local self-government, as I said earlier, provide feedback and must not happen that literally state institutions treat local institutions as if they are some enemies, as if there are no cooperation. In the past, we've had really one situation where local self-government was viewed literally as some kind of enemy of the state. So, the state administration had a hard-on for the local self-government. That's the case all the time, but here it was, and at the time of your government, it was very, very intense. I'll only mention one detail that has nothing to do with this, but it has to do with utility companies. So you know that you can't attach the water line to the business entity that built the company that made the hall in the business zone, which has all the papers until you notified the building inspection, until the construction inspection confirmed that it received the notice. So a man builds a company, invests money, and then he has to wait another 10, 15 days for some clerk there to give his opinion so he can attach it to the water supply system. So these are the things that happen to local self-government and we have to improve it, it has to be one thing to say joint activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22081	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22082	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Hrg, we don't get along very often, but there are some things we can agree on when you speak here and agree. What you mentioned about this building inspection problem I am really taking this opportunity to say that since 1.1.2014, such needs are not needed, since 1.1.2014 no. If someone's looking for something then let them just read some laws, you know. The laws change, so they need to be read in time. But I really agree with you in that part that state administrations and local self-government should be partners. We really have 556 units of local self-government. They do not have the same capacities, but also I often like to talk about the subject and it is one of my favorite topics of sustainable development. What is the meaning of sustainable development? So the meaning of sustainable development is that our citizens get the same service no matter where they live, whether they live in your Križevci, whether they live in Koprivnica, Bjelovar from where I am, Zagreb where I live or say Koprivnički Ivanec. It's an excellent community near Koprivnica that works well for me. I guess only those in the area of the second constituency know which municipality I work in. However, for some things it has capacities, and for some it does not. Where municipalities don't have the capacity really public, then the state administration should be a partner. Between the state administration and local self-government, or regional self-government, should not be the Wall of China, the Wall of China cannot be skipped but should be partners. And when it comes to one big process or one big subject, then they really need to help each other. It's the only way we can really talk about sustainable development in a few years. You know because absolutely the right to everything a child has in the city of Zagreb should have and a child I do not know in Nuštr and in Gunja and anywhere living in the area of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22083	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I welcome the Minister of Assistant, Your Honor, Mrs. Taritash. I would like to look back on this view of yours regarding what is clear and many citizens often notice, and these are constant digs. Someone digs, puts the sewers on, and then tomorrow he digs, so he puts water on. You noticed that problem. So, like everyone else, and especially this one of yours, you say we should coordinate the four-year plans, so that we know who's going to do what in four years. Perhaps you can now say this as a candidate in Zagreb, plan. You have seven and a half, eight billion budgets, so maybe you can plan something like that. But think of a mayor or mayor from some small town of Zagorje, Zagorje Zagorje, or Dalmatinska zagorje, whose budget is small and none. And what can he do? Who's he gonna deal with? You're going on a campaign right now or some mayor's going on a campaign and now he's going to plan, saying I'm going to give it up and do it. Who can he match that with? Who's listening to him? We all have to fight together to decentralize funds like yesterday when we talked here about water and water compensation problems. So we can talk about it, not say that we're going to be four-year-olds now or that some chief is going to plan well, and then he won't dig twice. That... He runs, begs the funds because his budget is zero, so he prays to one ministry, another ministry, to raise some funds, and then he gets in a position to dig it up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All those who were here, the mayors know these problems. And that's a problem that we won't be able to solve easily, and we won't be able to solve it like you say, so a four-year-old will plan it, so he'll know exactly what he's going to do, he'll get along with someone. So decentralisation of funds can be the only answer to this, not any four-year plans at least in small areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22085	The distinguished representative, Dark Taritash, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22086	Thank you very much. My colleague Sanader, I am in a campaign for the mayor of Zagreb where 7.3 billion budget is but it is not really 11 and a half billion. Well, then just like that because when you take Holding and everything else, I have to admit, I don't know that number when I'm writing it. It's a little hard to write, and the way it's managed is going to be another topic. Really different, I insist on that diversity all the time. However, in this law, they are said to have to the State Geodetic Authority regardless of the Municipality of Muč or any municipality that is in the hinterland and the city of Split. In the city of Split there is a special topic and you well know how the municipal infrastructure was recorded, that it was done by one company, so that when you need to get the information you are having a hard time getting, but that's another topic. So they will all have to report and the State Geodetic Authority will be the reference point. I did just as well as you and in my line of work I stood up for decentralisation of funds and jobs. And I think and it was an idea and I hope that's what they're thinking about and now those who run the ministry. The Ministry doesn't need to make building permits. The purpose of the ministry should be to do all of this in a way that the building permits are done where they really happen and they happen, and that the ministry just has to be extremely large when it's done highways, that's the purpose of the ministry to do building permits. I'm one of those people who really advocates decentralisation of assets and jobs because it's the only thing that makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22087	Thank you very much. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22088	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Collaterals of the cadastre of all waterways, of course, it is good that in the Republic of Croatia there is. You are calling it this law, i.e. provide for the Geodesy Authority to be that reference point where all these data will be pooled. However, when we talk about the Geodetic Authority, when we look at the example of Billy Brig's border crossing in the background of Sinj and Vrgorca Mali Prolog, they only made a 2 km mistake in drawing the border. Now I don't know if it's on Cliss for lambs while the drinks were drawing, two kilometers of Croatian territory. So you know what the severity of the border is? We're talking about the system and the people who have to do it. It's not just a directive. This is the fact I'm telling you. So our territories, our people, their property, their houses, land both in the Vrgorak area and in Sinjski, and so for the entire length of 2 km of the border. Do you know how many acres that is? How long is our limit? It's the Geodetic Authority. And as for the drawing of the lines, of course that should have been drawn. Of course, the owners of telecommunications we handed over to foreign hands like in my Sinj simply. Here you are at the Alkar racetrack, and you've all been on the pole, on those centuries-old marons hanging those cables of theirs to hang without anyone to ask, without drawing. Of course we ordinary citizens couldn't do that. Of course, the tribal would take the sycamore, and now it's a catch, but of course there wouldn't be any Internet, so the people would rebel. They do what they want, they do what they want, the state is insecure, we hand over everything in foreign hands, and when everything is settled, the question is how the Geodetic Authority will do it and in whose interest. I repeat, the Geodetic Authority was wrong to draw a 2km limit in the depths of Croatian territory without disputed BiH that the border crossing is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22089	Thank you. They will respond to the distinguished representative, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22090	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, you have opened a subject in your replica that is certainly a serious topic that is certainly a serious topic. So, what we need to know traditionally in Croatia is two cataracts. One is the Austro-Hungarian Catastre, which is for the continental part of Croatia, and the other is the Italian cadastre which is for the part along the coastal line and by the sea and by the back. And they are even different ways of leading themselves in different ways. Unlike the Austro-Hungarian cadastre that always had a particle and the building on that particle attaches particles, the Italian cadastre is guided in a way that a special cadastrian particle and building, especially the yard, and then you have it in a different way defined. The same is true of one serious business, and we all know that harmony is about 6%, or maybe now 9% of the state is already in sync and we have an excellent program called the ZIS Joint Information System that unites the cadastre and garland. I think it's a great system, but he's going to get two exact data results from accurate data, two incorrect data will result in incorrect data. I can tell my most personal example, my parents are in '67. We've made a cottage at sea, we've got a building permit and a useful permit, and every time I'd call the director of the state geodetic administration, open the laptop, and look, there's still 100 cottages on one of the cadastrian particles, it's still not solved and recorded. So certainly one of the major reforms that this country needs to be when we're talking about reform is to take down a cadastre and a garland, and it doesn't even have to be pursued by the whole country. Fix up the part that's the building area. Croatia is a 5.6% construction area and thus facilitates life not only for investors but for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22091	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22092	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleague, Dark Taritash. I want to look back on that first part of your speech. In fact, we will certainly support any amendment and addition of laws that will contribute to the construction and coordination of land books, catastra, water and ownership, but I would like to point out that as a state, we have brought in the National Programme for Land Books and Catastras, we have called it the "Organised Land" programme. It's been 13 years and every government takes certain steps, but I'm saying we're still going slow. It is precisely this discrepancies between the court and the lack of cooperation between the Office of Land Books, Catastra, the unit of local self-government that is not defined by law but simply depends on the well-willed cooperation between mayors, mayors, the head of the catastra and the court. We as units of local self-government as you mentioned some have arranged with their utility companies and introduce complete recording of all the waterways and let's say that with public companies it harmonizes, however there always comes a problem when it comes to catastra. And you, when you were a minister, when you visited counties, cities and municipalities we referred to this particular problem of lack of professional personnel and insufficient personnel in catastrian offices. So I believe that this change will be made, it will contribute but there will be still problems. What you said needed good co-operation between the state, that's what my colleague Hrg mentioned, the unit of local self-government, and in some ways unite. However, who will be co-ordinator and bearer of exactly this cooperation or will continue to depend on the well-being of the mayor and the head of the catastra.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22093	Thank you. They will respond to the distinguished representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22094	Thank you very much. I never doubted my colleague Demetlika that even the debate on the water cataster would turn into a safe and debate on the essential problem that we all have and that we should all try to solve together, which is the catastra problem, the grantovnica problem, the problem I gently said here to make a new measurement and that the new measurement is standing. And I'm sure after a year standing she's in one piece, and it's also 500 and 10 o ho hoho we've seen changes to stand longer. But it's enough to stand for a year, after a year, she's not up-to-date anymore. And now we come up with one essential problem, and what's certainly a problem, and I'm taking this opportunity to maybe all of us think about it together a little bit. The problem is in two processes. First it goes I'll use this short time just to try and explain it in perspective. You get a shot of a cadastral particle, you go first to solve it in a cadastre, it's an administrative procedure. This administrative procedure requires a solution, for this administrative procedure, all the neighbors are questioned, the solution is issued, and you have the possibility of a lawsuit again, of a lawsuit, of a lawsuit, and then of an administrative court, and then of a senior administrative court, and when you just get a solution and you think I've solved something now, you haven't. Then you come to the garland and it starts all over again. Therefore, the solution is other than to do measurements that the common cadastre and grantovnica participate, the solution is one procedure. Until there's any procedure that you'll be carrying out the cadastre and the grantovnica until then won't be an appropriate solution because what we know lasts for years. So, for any particle, you know what, I've been sorting out my property from my mom, and I don't know what not, and of course I've met with everything that's been going on for years, and I have to say that I've known a lot about it and used colleagues who knew it just as well. About how our citizens are facing what I have often heard, but indeed one solution, one procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22095	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, I almost fully sign your presentations except in one of which I absolutely disagree. You're saying that prescribing the commission's commission's fee is a matter of exposure to a new catastrian operative, and after this measure, the need for a land book is parafiscal. For me, it is a reform of all reforms in Croatia. For me, one of the most important projects of Croatian society and Croatian state is a new state measure, a new real estate cadastre and a new land book. The funds that are huge for Croatia's entire space to be measured, to create a new garnery, a new land book somewhere around 5 billion kuna. Projected 5 billion kunas. And in this process, we need to know that this is an extremely professional job both the workers of the Catastres and the workers of the land books as a rule. And we are witnessing that so far, because of these commissions that have not been followed by appropriate support from state bodies, more than 280 dimensions of catastrian municipalities in Croatia have not been formed into a land book, and funds have been invested. It takes people who work on it, and it's usually normal to work outside of hours. Because if you're exhibiting a catastrian operation then expect a citizen whose plot you've moved to see it. If we're gonna make every citizen come in the morning when he's working, then he won't be at work or spend his vacation. And on the other hand, what's necessary is to work outside of working hours should be paid. And while the Croatian state, while the Ministry of Justice, until the Ministry of Civil Engineering finds that it is necessary to do so as soon as possible, we will never do so and we will remain such an unregulated state when it comes to basic records, which is land in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22097	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22098	Thank you very much. Comrade Bacic, we really agree on a lot of things. However, there are some things that we disagree on because if we agree on everything, then we would sit together somewhere, regardless of the left, right, or center. That's why I pointed out that provision in Article 2 for one single reason. You know, today's commissions that are related to the implementation of the garter exist and they are paid for their work, but what we have recorded here, that the cadastre does its job without the grantine, or the commission, doing its job. So those who are not paid to do business, and those who are paid part-time don't work, so now I'm wondering what's gonna happen when they get paid part-time. Do we conclude from that that they will not work together? But joke aside. What we can all agree on here. The reform of all reforms is to take care of the cadastres and the gruntovnicas. They're not going to be dealt with because you and I are going to talk about whether or not the commission needs it, whether it's a parafiscal imposition or not. We'll figure it out the way someone decides. It seems to me that the best methodology and the best way is one law that regulates it, one place where it regulates itself, unites one's mind and the other and says it's a reform, and it's an absolute emphasis on building areas. Construction areas should be a priority when a methodology is found, and it is already widely known for construction areas, then it will be for everything else. And I think it's true, we can talk about both investment and investment, but when someone comes to these premises and sees that the catastro is even settled, but then they enter the grantine room and sees that someone from Australia needs to be invited and everything else, of course they leave every hope and goes away. So what we can agree on is what we need, but the experience with the committees, I told you, the commission that's being paid doesn't work, what doesn't pay, so we'll see what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22099	Thank you. So we've exhausted this, and now we're going to the next club, and that's the HDZ Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with an assistant, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this proposal to amend the State Measurement Act in the real estate cataster. After the debate that has already been held, I would not have had the need to overexplain something, so I will talk about something else that is certainly in the subject and related to the amendment of the law. In this law, which is also short and necessary, we define the State Geodetic Authority as a unique information point and prescribe a way to collect and manage data in a water cataster, and from tomorrow to tomorrow, a catastro-infrastructure. When we talk about the water cataster that will now be renamed to this law as a cadastre of infrastructure, and the infrastructure lines, then I would like to say that this squad according to which the water cadastre is handed over to management and keeping records was passed by the measure law in 1999 when the units of local self-government were obliged to download data from the cadastre and to continue keeping that record. I think it was a bad decision, and it was bad and it was proven to be a bad fact as it is today after 17 years, the condition of the catastra water in Croatia. The state geodetic administration seemed to me a year ago to study the quality of the management of the catastra infrastructure, i.e. the water catastra in the Republic of Croatia. And we've already heard here in the debate this morning, only six cities in the Republic of Croatia lead to six months ago running a water cadastre in a manner prescribed by law. And these are the cities of Zagreb, Bjelovar, Koprivnica, Osijek, Hvar and Velika Gorica. The city of Split, the management of that record, left it to a private company, and the town of Vinkovci, in Vinkovci, is run by the State Geodetic Administration on the basis of contracts between the city of Vinkovci and the State Geodetic Administration. So over 73%, or over 97% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia does not run, the water cadastre is not governed in accordance with the 1999 law, which later in the new law of 2007 and the water cadastre rule was to cover the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. So, I think the time has come if we should have done this by law, or if the Minister and Government will come to us very soon with a new law, we need what we say to bring the child back to the mother. And it is to leave that the catalog of infrastructure leads to it the only, professional, invited, competent, state administration and this is the State Geodetic Administration. And that is, after the law is implemented, we can see that it has not come to life for many reasons, and one of the most important things is that the units of local self-government are fiscally powerless to do so in quality. And on the other hand, what doesn't work out for them is a catastrophic situation in the real estate cataster, given its unsustainableness and harmony with the land book. And it's not a small business in Croatia. Otherwise, here's to our information, we're talking about the lines today, the infrastructure that's a total of 355,000 miles long. So 335 thousand kilometers must be the units of local self-government, of which we have heard that they have been financially trained to keep records of 335 thousand kilometers. That's why Mr. Minister, our suggestion is that the government thinks that this big responsible job would go back where, in the end, it didn't go, but all in several units of local self-government. When I talk about it, here's a little grudge I'd like to make to the former government of Zoran Milanovic because what we're discussing today we should have discussed a year and a half ago, because the directive makes this obligation mandatory by January 1, 2016, so here we are a little late with it, but I hope that this amendment of the law will change it. As you mentioned in Article 2 of the State Measure, you mentioned a commission that is necessarily monitoring and carrying out a state measure, forming a real estate catastra, forming a land book. I think and I said that just before in the replica that the need for the Republic of Croatia to enter the measure, into a new state measure in the creation of a catastra of real estate, in the making of a land book, is one of the most important projects of this government and this calls out to the Parliament. According to estimates of financial experts and analysts, Croatia is said to lose more than 5 billion kunas annually due to the unsettled land book and the unsettled catastra, which is around 2 Peljeska Bridges. So yearly because I mean society and states and central states, district self-government, county, cities and municipalities are losing about 5 billion kunas. We in Croatia annually for the registration of a movement that is better and for someone who is worse and those are vehicles, Croatian citizens allocate about 5 billion kunas for the registration of our vehicles, for their insurance and registration costs and real estate that cannot be measured with real estate, with property, with building, with parcels that the same citizen has. From the '90s to the present, Croatia is a year for registration of about a million and 700 thousand vehicles of about 5.6 billion and for the settlement of the most important basic records we have allocated 600 million kunas. So everything we've moved to Croatia we've moved 600 million kuna. And what we've moved over and what the state from the budget and the local self-government unit has invested 600 million kunas has not been resolved, 282 measurements of the Catastrian municipalities are still waiting for what I was talking uninterested about with Mrs. Mrak-Taritash earlier, I have to say in the first row of the judiciary, less this ministry is not functioning by the commission, the employees of the grants or judges in charge of the grants are not fully functioning by the commission. And what should have encouraged the development of units of local self-government is this new state measure and then after that a new cadastre and a new land book because as we heard just before, and that's true, after two years of moving something and not putting it into operation, after 3.4 years it should be measured again. And we do the work of unemployment, Sisif's work we do, when we do something, we invest huge money, and we don't spend it through a catastra or a land book. And I almost say that job loses its meaning. So I also spoke to the Committee about the need for the Government to come as soon as possible with a five-year plan and a programme of national measurement and a cataster of real estate, in accordance with Article 5. The fact is that the most valuable land in Croatia, the one on which 90% of tourism where the most expensive properties in Croatia are still based on the bridge, is measured from the first half of the 19th century. What does that mean? How much money was lost because of the inability to invest? That's what all those who tried to build their own house know, not to mention the serious investors who tried to build some complexes where there were larger surfaces, a much larger number of parcels, an unsettled property-law situation, etc. It would be good, therefore, that out of the 3.5 thousand catastrian municipalities in Croatia, everything is 10% measured, and 10% of which will need to be measured again because we did not exhibit, we did not create a cadastre and a land book. This should, therefore, be ours, one of our basic acts to be discussed by the Croatian Parliament. And not only that, not only because I doubt how many successful units of local self-government are in Croatia, how many skilled and successful and professional mayors and mayors have. That the year ahead of us in 2017 will not be enough to implement the Real estate tax law, it will not be, it will not be possible to be done in view of what I am telling you and it is a cadastre and a land book. I have already talked about this during the debate on tax reform, and I hope that through 2017 we will make assumptions about going into a serious project, which is making a record that will be able to solve it. Therefore, in order to be able to implement the Law on Transport of Real Estates in a quality way, one of the assumptions is that these properties or at least those parcels, those cadastrian municipalities where the measurement started to end, and we know that there are no more 219 catastrian municipalities or land book at all. Therefore, in this five-year plan and programme that I just spoke to Mr. Minister of the 500 catastrian municipalities, we should be in absolute priority. And finally, in the transitional and final provisions, it is said that it is necessary, it is planned for 15 days, Mr. Minister, in which you should adopt a regulation, i.e. Director of the State Geodetic Administration. I'm not sure, unless it's already made that it can be brought in within 15 days. It would be good for the director of the State Geodetic Authority to be able to do at least 60 days if he did, if the rule is done, it is for him to accept but if not, in any case, it is more appropriate than 60 days because I am afraid that in 15 days we will be able to pass such a rule. Finally, it was also the INSPIRE Directive on the basis of which the National Data Infrastructure Act was adopted. He's not going either, and you know it very well for the same reasons we're talking about right now. Because the basic basis for creating a national infrastructure database is a quality land book, primarily a quality catastre and quality plans in the Republic of Croatia. So we on INSPIRE Directive, which was also adopted in 2007 at European Parliament level, will wait a long, long time for this complete base to be completed. Here, in this sense, the HDZ Club supports Mr. Minister, this bill. It is important to bring it in as soon as possible, it is important that the State Geodetic Authority establish this record as soon as possible. It would be good to change the Law on State Measurement, take over data from units of local self-government because we saw that those with this torture, that they can't, are not financially trained, because professionally capacitated and needs this complete documentation back to the State Geodetic Authority that it continues to manage, collect, guide, informs what is very good, asks for information about the start of work for any, laying down any part of this infrastructure, and so that it can go into one quality construction of these waters to ensure that the wider community suffers as little as possible. Because when they're building together, they're setting up water, and then the costs are where and where they're smaller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22101	Thank you very much. We have quite a number of replicas on your exhibit. So let's take the turn. She is the first to be the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, in your presentation, you said that the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with this directive is necessary, and here I agree with you the same thing that I agree with you that for a year, a year and a half we lost that this law should have already been passed. If we'd lost a year, I'd agree with you. And I also agree with you that it is necessary to build a grantovnica and a cadastre on the ground and that units of local self-government with their fiscal capacities cannot bear that burden alone, that it was a good practice that you gave the emphasis that more than 600 million kuna of the joint State Geodetic Administration, units of local and regional self-government were invested in resolving this situation. So I ask you whether this practice will continue and in the future, or I would like to see it in the 2017 and 2018 budget of those 600 million kunas again in the plan of the State Geodetic Administration to move in this direction together with the local self-government units to sort out the situation because long-term planning and handling the state without money is not going to work. And I agree with Mr Sanader's comment that fiscal decentralisation should also be, or I would like to hear your opinion about it too, going that way so that some of the money being paid back to the state budget is returned to local self-government units in order to be fiscally stronger so that they can carry and build their infrastructures, i.e. that I can plan 5.6 years or so. which the state body will coordinate these activities as Mr Sponza said. I think that along with the State Geodetic Authority, it should be the Ministry of Economy or any other competent state body and there should be close cooperation between the units of local self-government, catastra and the State Geodetic Administration. I would also like to commend the co-operation of the State Geodetic Administration and Catastra with units of local, regional self-government on the ground especially in Brod-Posavina County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22103	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I'm glad you agree with me. I believe that taking care of land-booking records is both the mission of the state and one of the country's strategic projects. But in the cost of taking care of that record, the state must not participate alone. In fact, I think that in the Republic of Croatia there is about a quarter of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia on those land. The remaining 75 are either private property or companies, corporations, associations, units of local self-government etc. Therefore, in order to secure the funds, I think the cost of the measurements should fall on me as the owner of the property. Because according to the surfaces that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has and according to the increase in value that its property receives after the measurement, only the data that the units of local self-government on which a new cadastre and a new land book were created have increased their revenue in the budget by more than 50%. So much for how many units of local self-government today have quality records of collecting municipal fees. And not to say that with the basis of the sales tax, income increases in local self-government units, because the arranged property where the property is entered is generally more expensive by 15% to 20%. In this way, the overall value increases, and in transporting this property from now on, under the new law, the units of local self-government will significantly increase revenues. Therefore, this must not only fall on the burden of the state, but must fall on the burden of the unit of local self-government, which will also benefit the citizens who are fully settling the property-law situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22105	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22106	Dear colleague Bačić, you mentioned the '99 law. and the obligation of the local self-government units to run the water cadastre. I agree with you, it was a bad decision and it is no wonder that 97% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is an unfettered team more than even the operators themselves, and even today 16, 17 years later, they don't even know where these same waters are. You said one word in your debate about the lack of interest of the judiciary. I would point out this as a key problem, but not in terms of the lack of interest of the judiciary but inconsistencies, and all of the general discrepancies between the Ministry of Justice, the judicial structures of the Municipal Courts, the Geodesy Administration, the local self-government unit. It is absurd that cities and municipalities in the resolution of their catastras except that they must provide an office for judges and notaries and all other equipment with which they will be served we come into a situation that we must secure salaries for the court's employee who will keep that record. We've got this situation in Opatija, we've got it at my place in Bakra. We have such a situation throughout Croatia where local self-government units are eager to speed up all this process to meet the courts, providing funds for the salaries of their employees. And then we come to this conclusion of yours that only 600 million kunas have been spent on the construction of a disaster that is crucial to the functioning, normal functioning and development of the state and economy. And when we look at those 60 percent contracts, 40% of local self-government units, I wonder who's gonna pay for it. And in the end, it's not only the paying of all these problems, it's the problem then at all to get the court to expose and spend time for a few years when it has to be re-worked and re-recorded in order to get into the situation, and already to do the work by the end. So it's not indifference, it's inconsistencies and lack of resources to solve something like that at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22107	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Klaric, you are an extremely successful mayor. I know how much effort and knowledge your unit of local self-government has solved, invested in solving the Bakar problem, both in the business zone and in the new measurements that have been made. So you're right and you're speaking from your own experience. I wouldn't even, I must say, blame the judges and employees of municipal courts. The fact is, they have a huge number of unsolved items of their originals. The fact that this job is not adequately paid. The fact is, it's just that this job doesn't go as planned and that it takes what the minister here has a different approach to the work of those. More people are needed, people need to be employed both in the cataster and people need to be employed in municipal courts if we care. If we don't care about that then we'll still have a large number of municipalities that are measured, huge money that's being invested and which, if we don't do what the minister is proposing now, I'm afraid it's still going to be a job that will need to be re-excessively repeated and we won't have any effect on what we've done with that measurement that's been planned and that's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22109	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must confess to my dear colleague Bačić that I agree with you in every word you have spoken at the pay phone. Because the foundation of an orderly state is the orderly data definitely. And I think that in the Western European states and all the developed countries of this world about this topic that we're talking about today, they don't talk about it for a long time because they've done it a long time ago. I also agree with you that all data that are nationally relevant in any aspect must be held in one place, collected in one place, processed in one place just as the profession and all together ordered. I got the impression that the point of your presentation was in the end that people's saying, "A lot of grandmas, a kilo diet," I think that's what happens today with everything that we have. We in the Republic of Croatia have very good examples of good data management that the state has through the Ministry of Administration, and through the Ministry of Finance, if you want through the IRS everything else, through the Ministry of Science, but this is one of the best examples of how we do something disastrously bad. And a lot of reforms that we're talking about are very difficult technically, at all, that we can ever implement if we don't do a job like this. I think this is a great moment when both HDZ and as far as I can tell, everyone in this House agrees that something like this should be done. We have experience behind us at the end and colleagues Mrak Taritash when, in a certain period of time, it seems to me that for two years, we have drawn the line and solved decades before that the problem of illegal construction and legalization. Maybe it's one way or another so we can draw a line here on this issue, make some kind of action plan and agree that together just to do one project like this. I don't even think that the resources that would be needed for such a thing are too important, this is much more important national, security, and however you want the question to finally be resolved. Because if this keeps happening, I'm sorry, we'll never do, many things and reforms that the right and left-hand sides of the Parliament and the centre of the Parliament talk about, however you like. Because a lot of reforms are based on this particular data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22111	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague... I agree with you, this isn't even an ideological question, this isn't a question that needs to be shared here at all. I said and that's my position I think it's the minister and heard, that one of his future arrivals in the Parliament should be a proposal for a five-year plan of state measure. And we should discuss it here in the Parliament. I said to me that this, which unit of local self-government or catastrian municipalities should contain this plan in any case those measured and not fully realised. It's not an action plan, as you said. It's a plan envisaged by law. Many times we say that Croatia seems to me in 56th or 45th place by competitiveness, I'm not sure, I don't know, but believe that what she is in that high place is largely wrong and such a situation with basic records. We can both this minister and my heiress, we can try to shorten the time of the building permit, but it will always be as long if this doesn't work out. Because you can tell a man he'll get a permit in two days, and if it takes him two years before that to sign up for his plot, it takes him two years for a building permit. What we're going to formally say is that we cut time short so now the office gives him permission after two days when he collects all the paperwork and he's got really formal two days, but it took him a year, two years while he's working out ownership relations while he's working it out together. So with the stability of the tax system, with the reduction of administrative barriers, this is a fundamental prerequisite for Croatia to be competitive and then we can be if we do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22113	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, so I think that the state of local self-government is not as black as it is said about the cadastra of water because municipal companies that are and distributors generally have at least those cadasres of water and I think that we should allow laws that would be enforceable to be used more and to generally get to such real water cadasars as quickly as possible that local self-government would use and have and that would eventually be handed over to the Geodetic Authority and all of this would be improved together. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about an example from practice. So my Komunal company in the Križevci has catastre lines and drains all neatly built, we even formed the Geodetic Department in the municipal enterprise. And then the municipal company suggested that for the city and surrounding municipalities where the distributor led the water catastres. And it's been rejected from state level for one reason, because we don't have an authorized person from a graduate geodesy engineer but an authorized person from a geodesy engineer. So the water cadastre exists in a municipal enterprise, but it is not formally a cadastre of the waterways of the town of Križevci for one banal reason, in my opinion a truly banal reason. I'm not that professional, and I can't get into it, but if we already have something, if it's done, let's take advantage of it. And I think that such certain shifts in the law can very quickly put these percentages and the number of units of local self-government in an entirely different ratio because we definitely have a lot of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22115	Thank you. The esteemed Branko Bacic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrg, I agree with you that today, a platoon can rarely be laid down, and for a long time and there are no data about it. I agree with you that the responsible director of the municipal company has been collecting data since he was, but is trying to collect information about the lines and infrastructure he inherited. But you know what, the difference is when you have to go to one utility company, to another, to HEP, so maybe to Telecom, then to Janaf, or I don't know where to have a full picture and records of all these lines. If it's not all in one place, if it's not managed by a person who knows, who gives you information that you can very easily use when you go into pre-projection, into new construction works, then it's not that. So, I think what's going on and on it needs to continue, to continue, my proposal is that the entire water cadastre is returned to the area offices, their facilities, to put it in one place, which doesn't mean that the local self-government unit is still not going to run for its own needs. You know it well as mayor why your city wouldn't have all the information about it, but let's give it to the one who best knows how to run it. And why make you extra costs, why you have to hire a geodesy engineer was he authorized, graduated, has him in a cataster, let him serve both for you and for all the municipalities in your county, and the cities, which must keep that record. It's my right path, and the proof that I'm right is the fact that for 17 years we've been doing it and that only five, six cities, or seven, eight, even though there are fifty, that's only 10 percent of the 556 units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22117	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22118	Comrade Bačić, you mentioned Austro-Hungarian. Fortunately for us it was Austro-Hungarian, we have at least some cadastrian records that are based unfortunately on what the Geodetic Authority must be, and before I replicated it, which must be the central body that will collect all this data. Unfortunately, as I said in the background of Sinj, Bill Brig, and Vrgorec, I repeat for the hundredth time on Little Prologus, two kilometers, they misspelled the border. I repeat again, once again to you, Minister, remember very well, and you must remove this problem. It is 2 kilometers deep the Croatian border is damaged, in the depths of the territory. Mr. Bacic, you were also talking about the cataster of all the waters. Of course, many are now, many of us have copied laws and directives, but in reality it has not been realized. Of course, with the budget of the City of Zagreb 7.5 billion kuna and 12 billion from Holding, it is much simpler than the local environments, e.g. A lens or a Nazel in which they have nothing to draw, because they simply don't have a plumbing. Therefore, these are forgotten areas where no investment has been made at all. The key problem is, it's very simple to say the telecommunications of ours, i.e. Telecommunication lines in private hands, foreign teleoperator and, of course, the citizens paid for it and now someone else owns it. He is not in the interest of drawing this up at all because he will not pay the right to serve as that private owner or local self-government. What's the cost of telecommunications, the owners of these telecommunications lines? Not at all. They're going to pay for that local self-government again, they're going to pay for the state again, and they got those muppets, for nothing, that our citizens paid for. So this law should also target this group that has become the owner of what our citizens have paid for, and by privatising without any laws and directives of the European Union, our political elites have allowed them to privatise. So please, you have experience, answer the costs of those who privatized the telecommunications lines from our citizens who paid for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22119	Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, first of all a few words about Austro-Hungarian. You have rightly said, so our two most important records in most of Croatia's territory are being conducted on the basis of the measurement performed by Fran Josip 200 years ago, slightly less. But the evil languages you know what they say? That it saved us because we had arranged records to sell out all the property like Spain. And the fact that a large part of the unsettled property-law relations was on the property. Many who had intended to sell could not because the buyers refused to buy them because they had an unsettled property-law situation. So someone says there's something good in every evil. I'm kidding. Today it is simply unacceptable for a country like Croatia to still base its basic records on a measure very modest and very primitive since 180 years ago, and the other Member States and Austro-Hungarian and how they have already made and can be an example of us in Croatia what the right measurement, the right land book, the right state of things on real estate looks like. I think as far as this other part and the teleoperator and the utility companies are concerned, I think it's prescribed. It's an obligation for all of them to deliver that information. That's why we need a water cadastre to force the operator to draw it, to do it, to record it, so if you want and pay for it, and to have someone keep it there and keep it. I think on that trail and I see this law that there's an obligation for the infrastructure owner to draw, record, deliver, have someone run it later, have information about it to serve someone else when he's near his water doing certain works. And on that trail, I see this law, and it should be continued and formed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22121	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bacic, therefore, and through your debate, we see that we all agree. We agree on a lot of things, I also agree with parts of your debate, so maybe we're here to start a club of reasonable people who all agree on interesting topics. In the debate you mentioned part of the Law on Local Taxes and part of the Real estate Act, and indeed through the debate when we discussed this law, I even prayed for the understanding of everyone and said: My people, let us see, 2017 is the year in which we can't realize it, we can't make a good preparation. So I'm extremely glad that you from this pay phone said that one more time. We all know that, in May 2017, local elections, we all know that it is the responsibility to settle the situation in order to introduce that part of the law with 1.1.2018, to sort out the situation in space, and we all know that we need a terrible amount of time to do so. It is evident from your presentation that there are really some units of local self-government that will be able to do so simply but will have to make solutions and those solutions will certainly be terribly many complaints but there are those who will not be prepared for it. Even those who today have the communal compensation as much as solved but who will not be able to adapt to that part of the local tax code when it comes to real estate. So here's what I'm using once more of an opportunity to say through this replica that I'm glad you said the same thing from this pay phone. And the appeal to all that the voice of reason prevails, that in 2017 we really use but this role of the state must be important and significant to address the situation with respect to real estate maximum because we will not have a tax on what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22123	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, what I said earlier, that's what I said in the presence of the minister, you can look at it in a phonogram when I spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, when I was talking about local taxes. And that's when I said I'd like to be wrong, but if I didn't, we won't or won't, we'll have a hard time reaching the deadline on December 31st, 2017, and that local self-government units in the election year will be able to form that record by the end. There are those who will do so, there are units of local self-government that have a catastre of buildings that keep it up, that have made it, and those units of local self-government from my conversation with a number of local self-government leaders say that after giving not a large amount of geodetic companies, I do not advertise that they are doing very well in Croatia, they are, these units of local self-government through the budget already next year, with an increase in the communal compensation of the return of the investment. I wish such units were still in Croatia, but they will, believe that numerous units of local self-government when they see which bonuses they get from such records they will get into it very quickly. And that the day is long enough, quite so demanding, if you extend 5, 6 months or a year won't be the first law that didn't come into force when it was scheduled, you know that very well. Well, here I mentioned to you, as Minister, you had an obligation to propose to the Croatian Parliament that on December 31st 2015, so you didn't do anything to get the crown out of your head and I don't think everything has to be held exactly as planned and we should strive for it to be as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22125	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you spoke of cadastrian measurements that have not been carried out and this has already been mentioned several times by Austria in the catastro. However, there is another problem that is also important. You're... With illegal construction when you passed those first laws and that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's one problem, and that's this, our dry walls on parts that aren't catastrian at all, where we have many vineyards and many areas on the inside of the island, and also in the Dalmatian Zagora that are now creating a problem for people because that's what the OPGs are, people would like to do, how much poverty they've never introduced, over 150 years no one introduces but simply worked, used. But today when we're in times, when people are looking for European funds, when they're trying to report it, they have big problems. And the same problem is the book of the Croatian Forests. Because in all of our rural areas one particle of land extends that whole hill and all around people's houses so-called. As they say in Dalmatia, everything is under one cadastrian particle and now the construction area inside the site belongs to the Croatian forests because it is like the same particle connected to the one in the hill. And it can't even be solved because you can't do the plot within that great congratulatory Croatian forest, and so people have some kind of barn, something they have there within the meaning of the inhabited area, within the building area, and it can't legalize and create huge problems. So I think here's maybe another minister of the island could deny what we've been doing with the lawless structure that we're working with these areas now that aren't recorded because it's a de facto big problem for the citizens and if we want the demographic restoration and the most powerful one in the countryside, if we want people to stay there, then I think we should try and find a way here, maybe through this ministry that's most relevant to try to solve this problem and help our population in the rural area.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22127	They'll answer from a colleague, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've opened two topics for your colleague Sanader. The first topic is on the trail of what we are saying, it is not only a problem for the owners of the OPGs, it is a problem for every investor in Croatia to do anything, especially clearly if it expects its running and proposing its EU funding project to be one of the assumptions is proof of the property rights that the project is developing in a certain way. And this other problem that you have cited is a really serious problem for local self-government units. The large construction land of prevention was registered by the state attorney's office, parcels that are partly under the forest, which are part of the building land as you said were registered to the Republic of Croatia today and it is very difficult for local self-government units today to resolve the issue of opening a new project because it is registered with the Republic of Croatia and with the DORH it is going very hard, I think that the solution should be found that the real ownership of the local self-government unit should be determined as soon as possible. That's what a number of local self-government units came to me with that problem and he did. I understand the DORH, we have a very significant event on a Croatian island where the chief sold state land. And it was that light that offered the DORH. to enter preventive and ban sales until the local self-government and the Republic of Croatia are delimited. That's why I understand that DORH, but we can't become hostages right now, we need to move on as soon as possible and establish the boundaries of ownership of any private, state, local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22129	Thank you very much. And the last replica is that of the esteemed Ivan Šipić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. A colleague of Bacic's is really a big problem that's being talked about today, but it's a good thing to come forward and talk and put and analyze it right in front of the minister because he's the promoter of one of the most important laws I'd say. What our leaders from the local self-government are most distressed are precisely what they were referring to between land and land and this work that you have just now answered, so between what is state and what is under public well-being, etc. Most often, when we come to the minister, the question arises whether you put a particular investment, a potential investment, into a spatial plan? So when we target the spatial plan or put it or whatever you want, we plan very important projects for our local units, then we open up a sea of questions, just one of what your colleague Sanader said. So one of the most crucial issues and life-threatening issues is this particular topic that we are discussing here today is how to solve real estate, how to satisfy space, how to reconcile it all together with the wishes and needs of local self-government and leaders and also many investors who are calling for many investments. What we should certainly try to do is to take off the fam that all of them are thieves and criminals who make quality proposals and make quality laws. In the first place, I think of many investors who encounter barriers and mayors and mayors who want to do something quality with their investors for their own self-government and for society and for the state but come across, and there are many problems. That's why we're proposing a lot of things but certainly Mr. Minister and colleague Bačić is a list, so especially this about getting a contract with the State Geodetic Administration we didn't have the capacity, we're very ill-capacitated, and many local self-governments, we don't have that kind of budgets, and that's why we need to go on changing that rule to help people on the ground. For every commendation is your exposure, Mr. Bacic, because the agreement here that has been reached suggests that you just hit the right topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22131	Thank you, fellow Shipic. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Šipić, you have opened another topic that is not exactly a question of the law, but which I will gladly answer to you. In fact, I think we need to change the Law on State Property Management right from this point on. If the Republic of Croatia has left the local self-government and the district self-government and left for itself a very large cake of one piece, and this is the most valuable part of Croatia and this is a maritime good on such a project to manage the entire state property. Local self-government units, cities and municipalities give concessions, have a maritime good up to a certain limit, then a county and when the biggest projects are Croatia. Is it normal for you as the mayor of Trilja for the plot, a state plot owned by the Republic of Croatia that has 50, 60, 100, 200, 300, 800 square meters to solve in Zagreb? I think that you and I agree with you there are no local sheriffs, I think that units of local self-government and especially their leaders when they solve these matters need to solve state property to a certain level of surface value or I don't know what. Through that county and when the real projects are big surface, the great values of this property then it needs to be in that... ministry or people, that's what you rightly opened the topic about. In this way we would speed up investment so much, we would help so much that smaller projects at local community level are resolved faster that we are not even aware of it and I say we have an example in managing maritime good. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22133	Thank you. I skipped the false replica of the esteemed Josip Boric, and now he will say the last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22134	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your debate, you gave very good instructions so that we could discuss the proposal of this law really well today. Because the fact itself, 335 thousand kilometers of various waterways, electricity infrastructures, public lighting, gas pipelines, water supply, etc. clearly suggests that almost every local self-government on average manages or should have recorded nearly 600km of water in its area. Zagreb cannot compare itself with a small municipality and, of course, it may be easier to do so than to do environments such as small municipalities. We're losing 5 billion kuna, I think there's only enough of those two instructions that we can have this conclusion that you said the infrastructure cadastre should be returned to the state geodetic administration. Because what are we doing? Today we spend billions on rebuilding or building new state roads, new local self-government hundreds of millions for local roads. We dig the same roads several times to meet the needs or the economics or end-users and we can solve everything with good compliance records and save the money that you've been talking about. Because we think it's no longer an acceptable solution, that you have in utility companies, say an individual who only knows where a water pipe is buried. When he retires, no one has a record anymore, and all the places or settlements are left without water, because someone accidentally buried something wrong with the bugger. So, after legalisation, we must also add the issue of maritime goods as something we must also address in future times. You don't need to save money for measurements, you really don't need to, because only a decorated cadastre saves and creates new money. We have 3 Ministers, Minister of Spatial Planning, this Minister who manages state property and the Minister of Maritime Affairs who, in the next period, really have a difficult and demanding task of doing so and that it is a focus where the state will really give the greatest effort to create the basis for normal functioning in the part when we talk about the arrangements of the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22135	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Boric, you mentioned two things, which is 5 billion kuna, which analysts, economists in Croatia say is being lost due to unsettled records. And on the other hand, you mentioned legalization. In that first law of 2011, legalisation implies that the state, through the compensation paid by the owners of the illegally built building, goes to the settlement, the part goes to the money planned by the state to invest for the new state measure. For this five-year plan I spoke about earlier, the government later amended that provision and the funds were partly re-scheduled. In particular, it seems to me that they were invested in a large part of the reconstruction of houses after the flood of Gunja and that part of Posavina there. So here's the law he made possible, gave the state significant financial resources to rebuild it there and it was a welcome one. But originally, these funds were meant for what I said, that the funds from illegally built objects and many objects were illegally built and for the reason that no property-legislative condition was resolved, so the building permit could not be obtained so that we, as we are, are built in a line of less resistance without a building permit on a plot that was not arranged and the 800 thousand objects that were in the legalisation process were largely illegal and because no property-legislative relations were resolved. So it would also be normal for their legalisation and the funds that are collected in them to go into setting up property-legal relations so as not to encourage others, that others, for that same reason, build illegal, or illegal objects. But that's over, you don't have to cry too much for it, but we have to learn that if we're going to make it legal in Croatia, then one of the assumptions aside from the spatial plans, besides what we're doing here today is a big part of this morning we've lost to it, which is to sort out these records.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22137	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Orsat Milenic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Assistant. So, I'll be very brief because most of the things that are here before me are actually covered by the part that I thought I'd talk about. So of course it is important to comply with the directive and of course it is important that DGU becomes a unique information point for us. It is something that will actually enable in the future, especially these planned works when they are implemented to simply know who is doing what, to avoid discrepancies and to eventually go into synchronising in fact at all our cadastre, the cadastre of the water, the infrastructure here that is of immense, or of too much importance. What I see as a problem, and I'd like to highlight two or three things. First, DGU will be a unique information point. However, we have situations now that we don't actually have the data. And if no solution is found for that DGU will have nothing, it will have nothing to manage and will have nothing to do with it. And I see and I'm afraid we'll meet here very soon in that situation that DGU won't have anything to collect from the field. Because if we're only here on the six local self-government that solved the matter, then it's obvious that the system that is now not well solved and that the DGU won't be able to actually have anything to give. At this point, he can give us information for only those six local self-governments. Operators are also one thing to put here and which is good and to move towards. I'm not sure that in the future this solution with local self-government as it is now resolved should be kept. You might want to think about really moving to the DGU, having a unique system, not gathering a piece of information on one level, and then uniting it on the other. I'd say two more things about that. One's about the rule book. It says here he'll be brought by the principal. I think it'd be much better to get it up, actually let's go first. First, it would be better if most of the things were dealt with by law than it is now, and then what goes to be solved by the rule of law at the minister's level because this is why we now have a solution that only six self-government has done something about it. So, that's where if the law prescribes obligations more precisely then you can, the minister can work out the obligations by his rules. And I think we'll have an important step in the implementation then. The next thing you know, there's a commission, and there's a bill. I don't think we should run from it. So, the commissions are here and the commissions need to be paid. One of the problems facing the state administration is that it can't afford to pay. Therefore, it cannot ensure that local self-government or here operators, i.e. those who have, who are interested participate in salaries. And that's something that can't be solved only by this law, but it also needs to be considered because these are the jobs that need to be done in as short a time as possible, which will not be done only by the additional work of the employees. It's gonna take new people for a while. And I think that we should generally consider these and all other laws to enable and direct pay for those who are interested in it, so those who will benefit directly. It's something where you can actually, within a very short time, lift the system to make it do things for, set a deadline of a year, two. So these are two things that seem important to me right now. Of course, this is just one little segment. What we're doing here and what's going to be the biggest job of all is making that cadastre, and that's the cost that we can't predict right now. Unfortunately, a large part of the infrastructure is built ominously, nor does anyone know where it is or what it is. The part will probably have to be dug up to find out what it is and where it is. So I think, again, I'm going back to this payment as much as possible to transfer operators to those who are directly interested in it, to prescribe things by law, to regulate obligations, to raise to a higher level, because if this is left part of the level of local self-government now, I'm afraid we won't have the right result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22139	Thank you very much. At your presentation, we have one replica, the esteemed representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22140	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. Here's a colleague of yours who mentioned expenses and wages, so here I am going to look back on that. Costs will really exist, costs are hard to predict, but simply in this job you have to go. And wages are what's the problem. I'm going to look back here a little bit on the even functioning of the cadastres. When we talk today about catastres to get an emborate for an unclassified road in general, today local self-government is waiting a year. It's a little better when we talk about geodetic projects in the process of starting building permits, these things are going a lot spotty right now, that's where it progressed, but we're all talking about investments today, and investment can't go. And you know for yourself that an unclassified road lobby is a prerequisite for a house for sale, for even carrying out a real-estate property over real estate. Especially in my Sibenik today, we have a situation that the cadastre is extremely, extremely sub-capacitated. A few people went into maternity care, a few got sick, went further, today they're dealing with twice as much capacity as they used to. We're still in business here, and we're not thinking about the capacity of the people who are going to do it, and this is very, very important. And the other thing, it's about people who are extremely underpaid. So no matter how weird it sounds right now, it's about wages below average, people who are overworked, and they just don't have enough. And when we talk about investment, we have to keep in mind that a cadastre is necessary to work promptly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22141	Thank you. The honourable representative Orsat Milenić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22142	Well, my colleague, what you said, I usually agree, that's why I said that. Because too often our problem is just like this, I'd say temporary jobs that need to be done now within a certain time limit, whether we should leave three or five years. And after that, we probably won't need those people in the state administration anymore. And here I think it is necessary to open up the possibility wherever funding is possible by those who are benefiting directly. Here, when we talk about the harmonisation of land books and catastras, on the one hand, it's local self-government. Some have money, those who have money to make funding possible, then the budget will be more for those they don't have, so we'll raise the total system. It is somewhere that public companies that are very interested and who can and should pay should participate. So it's not about this law, it's a problem and the Civil Service Act, where there's no such possibility. I've met with it, we haven't been able to solve it, but it's something that if it's solved systematically we should work on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22143	Thank you very much. The final word will now be given by the Honorable Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Mr Lovro Kuščević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's how happy I am with the debate. I thank, in the first place, all the ladies, the MPs and the gentlemen of the Assembly for a good, quality debate, and I am pleased. Here we heard from the left over the center to the right everyone agrees, everyone is in line to work on the principle of a good law that should be released as soon as possible into the procedure. Here we even had here and twice read by colleagues from the SDP these arguments, so everyone together I believe established the material. As for some concrete answers like this, the time limit for the adoption of the rules as set by Mr. Bačić, we must bring it in within 15 days because it enters into force 1.1. so we must bring it in so urgently. And that's the immediate answer that the minister can't bring in what you said to a colleague but has to be brought by the director. As for the exchange of data towards local self-government units, I am pleased to see that this need has established for better cooperation between local and regional self-government units and state administrations and ministries and all bodies. Yeah, that's necessary, that's a prerequisite for development. I always say that it is not as strong as the city of Zagreb or our four regional centres, but as strong as the smallest village, municipalities and city in our country. All these data will be publicly available, transparent on the official pages and all will be able to use them without compensation, of course with a fence for those military secrets as Mrs. Mrak Taritash said, which can of course be protected. As for the observation that some gas companies, operators object that it would cost them, why would they give their data, that they had given them before, that they had given them before. Those who worked their projects of pipelines and similar to building permits were also given parcels, but this was done several decades earlier to date. Data are sometimes given in paper, sometimes in digital form, sometimes in formats like this and such, and it is simply not possible to combine it all into one useful file and database. And I don't mind that all the operators for what they don't have, and what they're doing legally means they have videos and they can hand over without a problem, and what they have illegally to choose to record and give us that data, I don't think it's going to burden them, and it's certainly about a useful base that's of greater social interest to the Republic of Croatia than it's going to hurt their budget a little bit. My colleague Taritash says it's a parafiscal imposition, my colleague Branko Bacic responded well, of course it's not a parafiscal impose. This is about the fact that if a local self-government unit wants to rush something that can establish a commission that will speed up the whole procedure, it will depend on goodwill, and it is not an obligation and it is not a parafiscal imposition. Mr. Demetlika says, and we've heard from more of you, slow implementation, measurements are done and they can't be spent. Yeah, we now have 100 and something to eat that 130, 140 of those measurements that went through the whole procedure, and they can't be spent in the land book. We've got 100 of them now, and they're up to nine, ten, even eleven years old. Well, it's a disaster, it's a shame, it's a mess, and there's dozens, no, hundreds of millions of wastes that are now lying somewhere in drawers. And you've all noticed, colleague Branko Bačić in particular, that even the moment it was spent in a year, two, three or five, those data are no longer valid because in the meantime there was a new construction, a division, two brothers split between themselves, and those data that were recorded five years ago no longer correspond to the real state. Now, here it is, I'm so glad that you all supported this need together to reform the catasters and the land books. As you have met the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the previous term, so during the President, Mr. Oreshkovic adopted a package of reform measures, and this government continues in this plan. One of these reform measures is the merger of the catasters and land books into a single institution. Today, we have a situation to keep records of the properties in two institutions, so in the cataster that keeps records of the shape, surface, purpose and owner of the property, then in the land book which keeps records of the property and other real rights on those properties, and often, very often, we have a situation that is quite third. It's not cataster or land book, it's something quite third. We are in Croatia's democratic community, and the government has taken this into consideration the way we think it is best to resolve it and a reform measure has been adopted to bring together the land book and the catastra into a single institution. What we're about to gain from this, Mrs. Taritash said well by the very management of the CIS which I can also praise that, here it is in the last ten months we have introduced 50 percent of the Republic of Croatia into the ZIS, a common information system. For those who don't know, it's a pooling of data from the land book and from the catastra to that one common information unit. Here we are done with all of Croatia, thank God and the City of Zagreb is near the end, so we will have this job very quickly and it will be finished by the end of this year. And that's, well said here, the exact sum of incorrect data. In 2007, however, according to our reform plan, we will spend our time working together with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, together with the State Geodetic Administration, working on amending the legislation, adopting new laws that will allow the integration of the two institutions into one institution in 2008. Then we will get what we heard here in the Croatian Parliament many times today, which is that these two procedures are being conducted in one institution and when that one solution is made, it will be implemented immediately and in the cataster as we have said, and in the land book. So, in that one body and there's no more doubt. And that's when the measurements start. There's nothing without new measurements. So, you need to do an emergency new measurements. Of course set priorities, however, these measurements will be quick and easy to implement because they will be carried out in one institution because all over six months to make a change is a waste of money. Here we believe that when it comes to one institution, we will achieve that goal. I look forward to your debate, we have written down some amendments here that will officially be answered, I can announce that most of them will be believed accepted at a session of the Croatian Government. I call on you to continue to follow this issue, to continue to give better suggestions and suggestions, and I am convinced that, given the support I have heard here today, this law will receive unanimous support in this House, with my guarantee that next year it will come before you as counterpart Bacic requested, new laws regarding this process of taking care of the cataster and the land book. And even at the end of the measurement, we are really going to see this on Saturday in the proposal for the Croatian budget, we have significantly, significantly increased the funds for new measurements so that this is the measure that we continue to take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22145	Thank you very much. With that I would conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22146	The next item is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Real estate, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 40. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, MP Peja Grbin, representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. I would like the representative of the motion of the Minister of Construction and the spatial arrangement of Lovre Kushčević to show about the amendments submitted. Amendment one and it's from the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22147	Mr. President. The amendment is accepted because it is a nomotechnical addition of this sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22148	This amendment becomes an integral part of the final draft law and does not vote on it. The second amendment was submitted by a representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22149	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, this proposal does not have a foothold in legal and technical terms. Since today the fixed points of geodetic measurements are done literally for one second through the CROPOS system, and this article that we deleted used to make sense while old geodetic techniques were measured and determined for days. So we think that the owner of a particle of a country that didn't notice that someone moved that geodetic tag doesn't make sense to punish in this way or that would have any effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22150	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Representative Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22151	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. This argument that you have now given me is completely different from that of your ministry's representatives at the committee's session and which has caused this amendment to be written. Therefore, I am explicitly told that the amendment to the law is related to the request of the Justice Committee because the offence overlaps with the criminal part of the damage to other people's matters referred to in Article 235. Penalty law. However, I remind you of the constant point of measurement is not the only mark to be placed on the particle. There are other labels that are placed especially in those situations where you especially there and you know as well as I that in many places we still use map 1:2.880 which is from the Austro-Hungarian era, that it cannot be directly measured through GPS or other system to determine where the border is or where the mark is already can be done exclusively and only in relation to other particles on the ground. So, given that our country has not yet fully moved on to new systems that would allow such a determination of the situation, we still need markings on the ground. When the owner of the property removes the tag placed by the official or in cases where we cannot determine that he has been removed, so we use this provision because he has not reported moving, we question the determination of the relationship between particles in future situations. This is not a political but practical remark coming from the fact that as a lawyer, I was in situations where art was impossible. precisely because the markings couldn't be found on the ground. [[Invader President: Time.]] That's why I'm asking for the vote and retaining this provision in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22152	I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote on the proposed amendment. The vote is over. The proposed amendment did not receive the required majority. The next 3rd amendment was submitted by Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22153	We also do not accept this amendment. It is not true that the introduction of such a commission and compensation would constitute a parafiscal imposition and additional burden for the Croatian budget. It is only an option, so the possibility and the introduction of such a provision will accelerate the process and implementation of these processes through the cadastre and through the land book. So we don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22154	The representative of the amendment, or the proposing amendment, wishes to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22155	Thank you very much. To begin with, I ask that the vote be voted on on this amendment, and this is the only law that we have that will stand for us to have a commission that will be paid for our work. In the debate and on the committees, and also here, we have opened this topic, we have concluded that we already have the commission, that when it comes to the judiciary there are, that they are being paid, and part of the judiciary is not working, and now we are going to introduce a cadastre-related commission, so I guess it's not going to work all over. So please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22156	I thank the MPs of the Dark-Taritash. I ask esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote. The vote is over. I find that the proposed amendment has not received the required majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Real Estate. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 120 votes for, without abstentions, and with one vote against, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates was adopted, together with the previous amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22157	And now we will move to the next point, which is: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Accounting Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 51. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204, 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were also submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22158	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. So we have before us the law on amendments and additions to the Accounting Act. The basic intensity of these amendments is administrative and financial redundancies, and the simplification of individual procedures for applicants to apply this law, which are entrepreneurs. What I would like to stress is that, when the amendments to the amendments to the law were made, very intensively communicated and consulted with the entrepreneurs themselves, so that their suggestions and their comments were largely included in these amendments. These amendments are also implemented and the relevant Directive is implemented in the Croatian legal system. In short, I will give a review of the fundamental changes that are implemented by this law. The first is the abolition of the mandatory application of the single indicative plan, thus making it possible to discharging entrepreneurs with regard to the costs incurred by the introduction of a single indicative indicative plan of the request, and ultimately contributes to creating a better business environment. It is also put out of force to make decisions on the publication of a single indicative continuum plan. Therefore, the existing Accounting Act has introduced an obligation to introduce this single framework control plan in order to ensure a more quality and efficient exercise of supervision for the authorised persons carrying out surveillance. It was also prescribed to draw up a single framework plan of the Financial Reporting Standards Committee and to publish it in the National Journal. In addition to requiring time to adapt the information systems of entrepreneurs, especially entrepreneurs with vertically integrated management systems, or advanced accounting processes, since the final plan is an integral part of the system with the specified books. This would also require significant financial resources and additional human resources. This law therefore proposes to abolish the obligation to apply a single continual plan, which, as we have said, achieves the disbursement of entrepreneurs in terms of costs as well as the introduction of this final request plan and ultimately contributes to a better business environment. In fact, entrepreneurs themselves have indicated that the costs of implementing this final plan would lead to interruptions and slowdowns in individual investments and projects and thus potential new jobs. What is important to say is that the main book will still have to contain pre-prepared contingents that provide data for annual financial reports in line with the needs of entrepreneurs. It follows that there will be no obligation only to apply a single continual plan, but that entrepreneurs will apply continual plans that are not standardised, or that they will be able to draw on their own to meet their needs. The second amendment is to amend the definition of public-interest entities in the sense of the Accounting Act in such a way that large entrepreneurs are not public-interest entities unless they are financial institutions or if their securities are included in a regulated market. This allows for a significant reduction of legal obligations for entrepreneurs in relation to reporting and audit and the number of public-interest entities and the obligor of application to be reduced from around 545 to slightly over 300 entrepreneurs. The third is the creation of a non-financial report, a consolidated non-financial report and information on diversity policy. So this is the directive I was talking about, the draft law transposes Directive 95 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 amending Directive 34 from 2013 on the publication of non-financial information and information on the diversity of certain large enterprises and groups. Therefore, not financial reporting bonds are first large entrepreneurs who are public-interest entities and others who cross the benchmark of the average number of 500 employees during the financial year. A non-financial report shall be made by the entrepreneur under the management report, together with the management report, in a way that he or she shall submit it to the public publication as an attachment to the management report or as a separate report and publish it on the website referred to in the management report within a reasonable period not exceeding 6 months after the balance date. The non-financial report covers environmental issues, social and human rights issues, human rights issues in the fight against corruption, etc. According to data collected from FINA in July 2016, around 70 entrepreneurs will be bonds to produce a non-financial report in the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, it is important to point out that the entrepreneur who is the daughter company will be able to exempt from the obligation to draw up a non-financial report if that entrepreneur and its subsidiaries are included in a consolidated management report or a separate report from another entrepreneur. It is also amended to return the deadline for the submission of the financial reports for the public publication again on 30 June in order for entrepreneurs to have enough time to make notes and auditors to carry out audit operations. The deadline for the submission of financial reports for statistical and other needs and deadlines for the submission of profit tax returns for those entrepreneurs whose business year is equal to the calendar year remains on 30 April. In addition to those amendments, the provisions concerning accounting documents are clarified and after compliance with professional associations and other stakeholders. So these are the basic changes proposed by these amendments and amendments to the laws, the entry into force is scheduled for 1.1.2017. The proposer has adopted amendments to the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament and we hereby declare that we accept the proposed amendments. In most cases, they actually refer to the nomotechnical arrangement of certain articles. So here, in line with all the above, I think that this bill, as I said, is going in the direction of simplification, discharge of entrepreneurs, and that it should certainly be accepted as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22159	Thank you very much. Now, will the committee's reporters take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ representative club will speak to the distinguished representative Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, Tufekcic, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We have just heard from the proposings that this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, more specifically the Non-financial Information Directive. However, the key amendment introduced by this law introduces the abolition of the obligation to apply a single indicative control plan. The Accounting Act, which was published in the National Journal in July 2015, introduced, among other things, the obligation to introduce a single framework final plan. A Standard Financial Reporting Committee has drawn up and published a decision on the publication of a single framework plan in the National Journal which should enter into force on 1 January 2017. This legislative proposal shall repeal that decision. The intensity of the then Government of the Republic of Croatia was certainly not bad and would make business easier for the authorised persons performing supervision. But I must note that when applying this proposal, more care was taken of by persons who exercise supervision than by entrepreneurs themselves. Entrepreneurs need a certain time to adapt information systems. The application would also require significant costs due to the development of new IT solutions and we are all familiar with the fact that in the Republic of Croatia we have a lack of information-educated entrepreneurs who have knowledge and resources to implement new legal provisions in their accounting systems. In its programme, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made it clear that, in 2016 and 2020, its economic and development policy will be based on the construction of a stimulating, simple and secure business environment with the aim of reducing the share of administrative costs in the economy. According to many experts in the economy. In the opinion of many experts, the single framework plan certainly does not contribute to increasing concreteness or transparency in the Croatian economy, and also because of all the costs that could have been caused by its implementation would inevitably lead to a reduction in the scope of investment in development and would certainly lead to certain project delays of importance for entrepreneurs. Therefore, by abolishing this obligation and allowing entrepreneurs to continue to use the existing continual plans that meet their needs, they come out to meet entrepreneurs in such a way as to relieve them of the costs necessary for its introduction, also creating conditions for easier and better quality business for entrepreneurs, which certainly contributed to a better business environment in the Republic of Croatia. In the application of the Accounting Act, practice has shown that there is also a series of indetermination, ambiguity and doubts about the control of credibility and accounting documents, and of entrepreneurs or persons designated as responsible for the same. This law lays down provisions of the applicable Accounting Act in order to avoid any irregularities. This proposal also changes the definition of public-interest entities in such a way that large entrepreneurs are excluded from the definition unless financial institutions or are included in a regulated market and legal persons of strategic and special interest to the Republic of Croatia are excluded from the definition. The aim is to reduce the cost of administrative burden, more specifically to reduce legal provisions for entrepreneurs in relation to reporting and audit. By this law, the deadline for the submission of financial reports, as we have heard of the public announcement, was returned on 30 June to leave enough time for entrepreneurs to make notes and was given to them by the auditor to carry out audit operations. It is also more detailed that the financial agency has access to the initiation and conduct of infringements. For entrepreneurs who have not fulfilled the obligations of public publication of FINA financial reports, they will publish a list of entrepreneurs on their website who have not submitted the documents for public publication and, within 3 months of the expiry of the legal deadlines, a list of entrepreneurs and persons who are obliged to submit financial data for statistical and other purposes in accordance with the law. The old Accounting Act complies with the standards of financial reporting, principles and rules are the placing of financial reports between the Republic of Croatia and the EU and our aim is to ensure that all entrepreneurs operating in the Republic of Croatia comply with these rules as they would respect doing business in any other EU country. This law adopts legal property or a directive on non-financial information whose time limit for transposition into national legislation is 6 December 2016. We therefore supported the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. In this regard, the proposal is for non-financial reporting bonds to be large entrepreneurs who are public-interest entities and who, on the balance sheet date, cross the criterion of an average number of 500 employees over the financial years. In this context, it is important to point out that the obligation to draw up a non-financial report will be exempt from the company's subsidiaries, if that entrepreneur and his company are involved in a consolidated employment report or a separate report by another entrepreneur. The entrepreneur will be obliged to draw up a non-financial report for the financial year starting on 1 January 2017. Following that club, HDZ will accept this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22161	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22162	Dear Vice President, my colleague Balic, so we had a heated discussion on the committee itself about this very law. We wanted to show one indetermination in our own regulations, which is the responsibility of bookkeeping services according to the law or to the responsibility of the entrepreneurs themselves. We are aware that in the case of frequent tax administration controls in our business practice we come to a situation that it is precisely our entrepreneurs who always get the fatter tail out of what is said in paying the fine. There may be a situation where the bookkeeping service does its job badly, and eventually the whole story is paid by the entrepreneur. It seems to me, therefore, that it is time for accounting services or for those who, in the case of smaller companies, primarily provide their services outside, so that they also carry part of the responsibilities they should bear or carry a part of the financial burden if that is the case. To pay certain penalties, not only for our entrepreneurs to have that burden on themselves. In this regard, we have considered several proposals, which is to introduce a single insurance of therefore accounting services that will defend this accounting service in the sense that damages to entrepreneurs which we think is a very good proposal, and also that the penalties in the Tax Law, so that the general Tax Act is divided right into the same way as we predicted on the profit tax on those less than 3 million kunas that pay the tax on profits up to 12% and the larger ones that pay up to 18%. Because we're aware that 90% of government budget payments just pay those big to 18% who pay profits and those small to 12% to 3 million kuna have a situation to pay less And just some sizeable amount of 10, 20, 30 thousand euros in fines can lead to an interruption of absolutely business activity. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22163	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22164	Thank you very much, colleague Kleman, for your intervention. All I can say is that I agree with your conclusion and I am convinced that both the Ministry of Finance and various associations will approach the problem which is currently visible and will go with the aim of protecting entrepreneurs. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22165	HNS's representative club, HSU, has applied for participation in the debate and on behalf of the representative Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22166	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished fellow representatives of the ministry. Well, here's a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Accounting Act. I don't know if in the past year anyone's law has been talked about so much amongst the professional public, i.e. accounting workers and entrepreneurs as this law. In fact, the fact is that this continuum plan that was planned should already be applied on 1.1.2016 in order to make a final account for it. What does this unique framework plan mean? I don't think he'd get much of it. It would be easier to control and do some reports, but he wouldn't change much. I am therefore particularly pleased that this decision has been abolished and that it has given up the application of this single framework plan. It stands as the promoters said would be a very, very high cost of implementation, that a lot of people should be eulogized to this introduction. Because all those who face that problem know it's not that simple. Of course it remains still in the smaller scope of the obligation to adapt this final plan and that's fine. But it's also okay that no longer requires accounting monitoring of production costs by type, but by connection. So, according to the nature of the costs that have been so far and which is good to keep it that way. The second important change is to extend the deadline for the submission of annual reports. That's where we've heard the arguments, which is why I think they're standing and it's good that it's done. Because we all know that statistics are taught by 31.3 and that it's actually already done in that part. That tax returns will be submitted from 30.4. But to leave that until 30.6., to make audits, but to make certain controls, to make notes, and to make it all right when surrenders are made and when it comes to public announcement that everything is properly controlled. And here we have a reduction in the number of entities of public interest where large entrepreneurs are excluded and special persons of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia are involved, and these are companies and other legal entities in which the Republic of Croatia has less than 50%. I believe that it is also well accepted from the professional public, and we will also support that decision. Furthermore, we have a lot of changes, and this has led to a debate where the updated provisions are related to the content and the collection of accounting documents. I think it's good enough that now, it can only stand for an operator's label on an account that's being issued and fiscalized in real estate traffic, because so far we've always had to have the name and name of the person who issued the account, and now it's enough to be regulated by a decision that's the number of operators. There is a name and that not every customer should know the name and last name of the seller, or cashier, who served it. Here we have one important explanation which is to control the credibility of the accounting document. I believe that it must continue to be the entrepreneur who is responsible for the bookkeeping process or for the person who has the authority to liquidate that correction, and on it or the person who has the authority to make sure that it is the same as it should be with all the elements. And that there really was this business event that was recorded by that business ID. First of all, the entrepreneur must be responsible for this, that it is an instrument that monitors the event. And it's just writing down such documents in business books as this document is being written, which regulations must be met, whether it has to be in the main book, whether in any additional records that are being drawn out, it's the bookkeeping service's business, we need to distinguish it, and I think this clarification has come in handy. Furthermore, we have a change where there is a reduction in the number of taxpayers making statements on the application of the corporate governance code. It is limited only to those entities of public interest whose securities are included in the regulated markets of Member States as well as financial institutions and this is consistent with the directives and we believe that it is ok. And the sixth we've got here. Non-financial reporting shall be introduced in accordance with Directive 2014/95 of the EU where large entrepreneurs who are public-interest entities where the average number of employees is at the annual level of 500 workers are required to provide information that is not of a financial nature but can be unequivocally understood from it the development of that entrepreneur, its business results and the position of entrepreneurs. It's a good thing that there's no daughter companies working on a consolidated report because they already have that report. This report may also be included together with a business report published on public publication or may be on the website of entrepreneurs. So all of this allows us to get a better, right, wider picture of entrepreneurs. Therefore, the Club of HNS Representatives, HSU, will support these amendments to the Accounting Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22167	I thank the MPs, Macar. The next Club of Representatives who reported for participation in the debate is SDP's Club of Representatives and their representative Siniša Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22168	President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Amendments and additions to the Accounting Act are good and the SDP club will therefore accept amendments and additions to the Accounting Act, although there are no illogicalities to which I will draw attention in this presentation. However, the law is generally good and that is why the SDP Club will support it. First of all, these amendments and amendments to the law into national legislation are introduced a directive introducing an obligation for entrepreneurs to include a non-financial report in their management report. These obligations relate to entrepreneurs who are a public-interest entity and entrepreneurs who have an average number of 500 and more employees on the balance date. This report, which is otherwise binding on all EU countries since 1.1.2017, also shows how the development and business results of entrepreneurs and a number of other activities affecting the protection of the environment of human and social policy, the fight against corruption and bribery. The EU Directive on the obligation to draw up a non-financial report gave Member States the freedom to allow entrepreneurs, in its legislation, to submit this non-financial report as a separate report or as a consolidated management report included. The independent auditors or audit firms shall only be required to determine whether the report has been drawn up and publicly published and, if it is drawn up as a separate report. So for now, they're not going into the same content itself. When signing the report, it is legally regulated in the same way as when signing the employer's report to sign and correspond to all members of the administration, the Supervisory Board, the Executive Director and the Administrative Board if any. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, At the same time as the introduction of a new non-financial report, the introduction of a single indicative control plan and all provisions relating to it shall be abolished. This obligation was to take effect from 1.1.2017, and the objective was to facilitate the achievement of the supervisory authorities in carrying out the tasks of the supervision itself. As a reason for the abolition of the single continuum plan, the costs and burdens of entrepreneurs by amending the IT programmes are also listed, although this obligation has not yet taken effect. Perhaps it was necessary to make this provision and obligation so that the assessment should take the same effect after the change, although the assessment is very arbitrary and can often be very arbitrational. Therefore, this measure will not liven up so that entrepreneurs will be able to continue to apply their plans so far. In particular, we note that the current continual plans need to be brought into line with the new regulation on the structure and content of the annual financial reports, the '95 National Journal. which has prescribed different positions of the financial statements themselves. The current Legislative Act on Accounting has classified entrepreneurs as micro-small, medium and large criteria for this is a total activity of net income and, of course, the number of workers where each entrepreneur must meet two of the three proposed criteria in order to be classified into a particular group. So micro entrepreneurs are active up to 2.6 million kuna, net income is 5.2 million kuna and the number of workers is up to 10. Small entrepreneurs who do not cross two of these three conditions, so 30 million assets, 60 million kuna income and up to 50 workers and medium-sized entrepreneurs who do not cross two of the three conditions, are active 150 million kuna, 300 million kuna income and up to 250 workers. Large entrepreneurs meeting two of the above criteria plus banks and plus housing savings, Leasing companies, insurance companies and, of course, other financial institutions. The aim of the demarcation of entrepreneurs under the above criteria was to reduce the administrative burden on small entrepreneurs in the part of the submission of financial reports. The bonds are thus divided into micro and small taxpayers who, with the application of Croatian financial reporting standards, are a somewhat simplified version and medium-sized entrepreneurs to taxpayers are also Croatian financial reporting standarts, which are international standards of financial reporting. This law can also say that one step further goes forward, so Article 3 of this law therefore falls for public-interest entities that are no longer listed by all large entrepreneurs, and thus further reduces the obligation for entrepreneurs to submit reports and audits. It also excludes legal persons who keep business books and draw up financial reports in accordance with the rules governing budgetary accounting and accounting of non-profit organisations. It is precisely by reducing the number of large entrepreneurs considered public-interest entities that are freed from the large number of entrepreneurs and from submitting a non-financial report that we listed at the very beginning of this presentation. As regards public publication, the deadline of Article 30(5) shall be extended to which all entrepreneurs who are obliged to non-consolidated reports and audit reports shall submit to the FINAs now have a period of six months from the last day of the financial year, instead of the four months from the last day of the financial year. The deadline for the consolidated report remains nine months from the last day of the financial year. However, the deadline in the ZTD and the deadlines for the submission of the financial report remained inconsistencies. According to the ZTD, financial reports may be presented to members of companies no later than 31.8 next year, while the statistical reports of the FINA are submitted by 30.4. rather than consolidated audit reports by 30.6., so there is one discrepancy between these dates. The revision of Article 20 of the statistical deadlines has led to an inconclusive conclusion when companies are required to carry out an audit. In particular, in the previous legal form for the stock company, there was a replacement after which the remaining companies and the conditions they had to meet were indicated and they would be mandatory to carry out the audit. It is now actually corrected so that, instead of the allies, a decimal has been placed and it is clear that the conditions are laid down for statutory audits referred to in Article 20(3) relating to all commercial companies and so on and on d.d. This law further clarified and simplified the fact that it is an accounting document compared to the current text of the law. Article 9(3) provides that a verifiable accounting document is a written document and an electronic record of which the content is independently or linked to the contents of other verifiable accounting documents listed in that document, which is accurate and fully maintained by the fact that it is relevant for a particular business event which has a consequence of the accounting change, and if it contains all of the elements of course prescribed. Furthermore, an accounting document instead of a name may now have a unique identification mark. This law addresses the question of whether the accounting document is i.e. Does it have to be signed by a person like... assembly. As a rule, each accounting document must be signed, the exception shall only apply to the account and the correctness drawn up as an electronic record. In the case of cash accounts, instead of the name of the person responsible for assembly, it may have the operator’s mark on the device itself. This law postpones the application of Article 7(4) to 1.1.2019 and regulates the licensing of persons providing accounting services. Since the legislator still does not regulate the necessary knowledge and qualifications of legal and natural persons providing accounting services in practice, many difficulties arise both on the side of those who provide them and those who receive accounting services. Specific problems are the pattern structure of accounting service providers from trained low-skilled accountants to highly sophisticated experts providing quality services. It is obvious that this is about one unfair competition because highly qualified experts cannot ask for an adequate price for their services. Furthermore, we should aim at using accounting agencies by entrepreneurs not only to produce financial documentation but also to collect information and make important decisions that are important for their further business. It also neglects the profession and detimises further improvement and monitoring of legal regulations by accounting staff. It is therefore necessary to resolve this issue in a way that the terms of the qualification to be met by a person who provides accounting services and not only the accounting service provider but also the person who does those tasks within the accounting firm with the ultimate objective of providing as high-quality accounting services as possible. Although there exists as I have said several of our important remarks the SDP Club will vote for and accept the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22169	I thank Representative Doncic. Representative Branko Grcic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22170	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I'm a colleague of Doncic's. I would once again like to underline this as you last said, I think it's one of the very important questions for all entrepreneurs, especially those who use outsourcing accounting and other services, so the question of responsibility. We talked about this a lot on the Finance Committee. I think it's very important to introduce order here and to necessarily write and define criteria for all those accounting services and people, responsible people in those job services that work. Why? Because according to the legal decisions at this point, responsibility is exclusively on company administrations. Therefore, if certain irregularities in the accounting of a company are identified, the management of that company is responsible, not the one who manages the books, and these can often be external services, accounting services. That thing needs to be changed. And that responsibility has to be on whoever's doing the job. And it is very important, and there we have also asked the representatives of the ministry to certainly take this important step, step up and find a solution that responsibility for the accounting part of the story is borne by the one who runs this accounting and these are accounting companies that provide that service. This section is very important to determine, there is also a very charming market that you said yourself, so from accounting services paid 100, 200, 300 kuna per month to very professional accounting services where this service and more expensive stands but also reliability is much higher in such services. Here, in that sense, it seems to me that we should continue to insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22171	Thank you. Replication response by representative Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22172	You are absolutely right, it was an emphasis on the SDP's Club of Representatives on further, I will say not only education but putting into some frames, responsibilities and obligation of accounting services because many companies, therefore, especially small companies, medium-sized companies, are outsettling the whole process, so they are looking for an external service. And I know personally, so maybe in the last year of 30, 40 cases like that, where just because I'm careless, I'm going to say, or maybe the lack of education, the entrepreneur was punished, because of some of the problems that were most common in the tax administration. And without responsibility, so accounting services, let's call them those words, there's no full functionality of this law and there's no responsibility, and that's what we're all going to be working on. So, absolutely speaking, I support your well-intentioned advice to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I think this should be resolved as soon as possible in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22173	Thank you. Representative Branimir Bunjac has applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22174	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. What have we been discussing here all morning? It's about a soft discussion where there's not a lot of people involved. We are discussing EU directives, so all these legislative proposals, and this Accounting Act therefore represents the implementation of the EU directive into Croatian legislation. And what we now see here during this debate, that HDZ will vote for, that SDP will vote for, they are reportedly different, here's counterpart Boris said they are very different. And I'd like to ask and what if we voted no? Here we vote no. What have we done with that? Absolutely nothing. Because the EU directive is a predetermined law with clear effects in which we can only change certain words, e.g. We can write maybe or possibly, we can write a neck or neck, blue or blue, but the content doesn't change anything. The EU directive is therefore a directive that is commanded by all Croatian legislation. And I don't know if you know any MPs, and I want them to know Croatian citizens, she's in charge of the Croatian Constitution. So even if this EU directive is contrary to the Croatian Constitution, it has a direct application and I want to say here now that here at half 10, it means we've actually been in the full 3.5 hours of a puppet show, in a farce, to play some sovereign government in the Republic of Croatia and we don't have it de facto and de jure at all. I would like to point out, during this debate, that Croatia lost its sovereignty and independence in 2013 and entered into a colonization association the same as it was in the days of the Ottoman Empire or in Yugoslavia. Croatia received nothing but ruined domestic production, demographic disasters, toxic food on its shelves and non-refundable debts by entering the EU. For this reason, I would also like to take this opportunity to raise awareness of all MPs and all Croatian voters that this adoption of the EU directive is nothing more than just another unnecessary humiliation of the Croatian people. This is the responsibility of all those who unanimously raised their hands to join the EU in 2013 and I want to invite them to open their eyes, especially to see beneath the cloak of media manipulation and to realize that Croatia is not a free country at the moment. For this reason, I hope and believe that the time will come very soon when we will no longer have to discuss such nonsense over which we have no influence and that we will also bring this flag, which is currently right of God Petrov, out of the Croatian Parliament, because it has no place and is no use for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22175	I'd like to thank Mr. Bunjec. Representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22176	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Bunjac, you said that we basically haven't been doing anything here all morning and that this is all nonsense and that you don't know what we're getting by voting this law. So I would only touch on one topic, i.e. the amendment to this law, which is to abolish the obligation to apply a single final, indicative control plan to entrepreneurs. I'm wondering if you've ever had your own company and if you've ever been a micro-entrepreneur, because if you did, then if you were interested in how it ended, and if you didn't, then you should know that these micro-entrepreneurs are the only ones who can bring healthy development to this economy, and they're the ones who're the ones who have a single indicative plan that would create significant costs. So if one entrepreneur, a micro-entrepreneur due to 2,000 kuna tax on behalf of the company, is here morning in the Split case where the enterprise is precisely due to a tax on the name of the company 2000 kuna which could not pay the commission, it is very likely you will have to close your company. Now you tell me that one of these entrepreneurs would pay about 30, 40 thousand kuna an information solution to introduce a single indicative plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22177	Thank you, representatives of Ninčević-Lesandric. The answer to the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22178	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So at no point did I claim that we should not discuss accounting, nor should I argue that we should not discuss these alternative consumer measures or public notation, means these topics that are on the agenda today. I merely claimed that we do not need an import mind, that we have enough intelligent and capable people in Croatia who can do it on their own. I believe that you yourself could write a good bill along with your colleagues from MOST. I just wanted to say that it doesn't matter whether we vote in favour today or whether we vote in favour today. We can vote all 151 in favour and all 151 votes against but this law will change regardless of our vote. That's why I don't see the point. And if it's predetermined what the effect of this law is then let's not report for this debate, waste time, let's vote on Friday, and that's it. But my opinion is also that these bureaucrats from Europe do not have enough hearing for Croatian specificities, and as far as I think we have the right to suspect that they are very often working against the interest of the Croatian people, and in fact here they impose legislation on us to keep Croatia in a permanent position, so that Croatia is not the one who decides in the EU but that Croatia is the one who implements EU decisions without protecting its own interests. Therefore, we are not against the law, we are against the EU Directive and EU regulation, so we are looking for a thorough change in what is called co-operation with the EU, and if this does not work, then we are also in favour of leaving the EU of course through the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22179	I'd like to thank Mr. Bunjec. Before I go any further, I'd have to warn you to stick to the subject preferably. I will not deny your right to speak and to plead but we can do an opinion on the EU with a thematic session. There is a debate here on the concrete Accounting Act, and I would like to warn you that the Croatian public is not deluded at the time when it is said that voting here is absolutely nothing and that it will still be carried out because then there is no logic that is happening here at all. So it could be very simple to ask why we've been here all day today? Which means that if, formally, 76 hands should be raised here, or 76 people, they should be representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In other words, it cannot be said in such a way as you have stated, I must defend my position and the institution cannot be said in such a way that the laws apply regardless of the opinion or lack of the opinion of the Croatian Parliament. And I'd like you to appreciate it, that you don't use such an argument because it's not true. The representative who also applied for individual participation in the debate is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22180	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Petrov. So here's the theme today is this Accounting Act. And what, in essence, is changing for an average entrepreneur? It is a small change in the context of the form, but the basic content, or what is underlying by entrepreneurs, is actually imposed, or in the case of the host, say VAT growth to 25%. And here we are now dealing with how this accounting will be done, and we are not dealing with the amount of tax burden itself. This law first goes into emergency procedure, and in Croatia there must be laws that have passed us by the law, since the harmonisation of the Accounting Act with the legal property of the EU. But those laws that are urgent to us about them are not discussed as you can see. And we're having a debate now, and we're going to have this debate for days where we're going to have all these laws coming in and you see how many of us are here. You know that none of us are likely to read all these laws. If he reads just one, I'm taking my hat off. And what's going on? There are no, 90%, or let's say 80% of the MPs are not present. When the vote comes, people will come to you, you famous handlifters, and what? They will raise their hands, this law will pass. And to get them out of the hall, to ask them gentlemen if you know what you voted for, to know what changes are the result of these amendments to the Accounting Act. I'm a skeptic about the fact that every tenth will actually say what he voted for. For this reason, I believe that we should point out to the public that we are not actually engaged here in Parliament by improving their standards, we are not dealing with how to facilitate their life, how to protect them legally. Say you have a situation to dig people's water out of electricity. Why? Because the law does not speak clearly and loudly enough that water and electricity must not be excavated. Then distributors interpret it in a way that everything can and people live part in the dark, part even without water precisely because of our negligence, or by not protecting it. Let's say it's more important for our society for water to be a fundamental human right and that no one should be denied water. Thank you, Chairman. [[Incursion President: Representative Pernar, I would ask you to direct your presentation on the topic discussed today in the Assembly.]] So we can talk too here I can talk about the Accounting Act, but I am aware that simply this law will solve nothing and we will continue to vote on these laws coming from the EU. But it's interesting when you said earlier on the subject of the process of voting those laws to discuss them. But it's just a matter of form. In essence, all of these laws go on the track, and we can't change the key things, we can't change the role of the Central Bank, we can't, let's just say, lift the sanctions on Russia, we can't stop the visas for Russian tourists. So we have some sort of apparent freedom to make decisions, but basically our options are limited, and key details cannot be affected. That's all I could think of to point out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22181	The representative who responded for the replica is representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22182	Thank you, Mr. President. Agent Pernar, I would really ask you not to say that anything is done especially for entrepreneurs. Because if anything was done, it's been done in the last two months just for entrepreneurship, so I'll repeat since you obviously slept through this part or I don't know if Russia was a more important topic. So for entrepreneurs, we cut the profit tax to 12% to those who have up to 3 million kuna incomes from 20% otherwise. For entrepreneurs, we abolished the tax on the name of the company which, as I mentioned earlier, affected the closure of the company. And now we're just preventing micro and small entrepreneurs from having even higher costs that will lead to a negative business again, so if these three things in not two months are enough for entrepreneurs, then I think maybe we should really start talking about Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22183	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22184	Thank you. Well, I'd like to say exactly on the subject of what you just mentioned about profit tax. There are very few business entities in Croatia that show profits. A large number of business entities operate with a minus, a large part of them revolve around zero, and essentially when they look at the structure and get it, they would see that large entities, meaning banks, telecoms and insurance that have one-off profits, are actually exclusively profit-making entities, and that all other small entities actually don't have any real profit. And that even if they have it they don't show. So, I don't think there's gonna be any positive effect on this law. Because if you had a positive effect, or you wanted to reduce the tax burden on this as you said to small entrepreneurs, it must have been the caterers that we can call small entrepreneurs. And you could then, instead of cutting the profit tax to those who make up to three million kunas, reduce or leave the VAT to 13% for the caterers. But the key thing is how effective this reduction is. So when you raise VAT to 25% of your hosts, you actually get a billion kuna out of your pocket, and with this profit tax reduction, it's questionable how real that will be for them. I think it's really about a negligible amount in those absolute numbers. Keep in mind, then, that after raising VAT, I believe that both taxes and profits will be lower for all these people, so that in the end it is again a question of what they will prove to be some profit, because in this society only banks, tycoons and people are known from which party, and we are all left with one salary or two of the blockades of accounts and acquisitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22185	Thank you, Agent Pernar. Will the proposaler's representative be the final word? Mr. Željko Tufkečić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank everyone for the debate, thank you for supporting the supported support of this law of all clubs, so I would say all the speakers. What I would like to stress is that this support stems from the fact that something concrete is happening to this law, that it is making business easier for entrepreneurs, especially small, medium-sized ones, and I would say it is also large because it facilitates and reduces their reporting obligations, audits, etc. During the debate, the problem of setting up an accounting profession has been highlighted. By this law, we have moved the deadline for the adoption of a specific regulation that will regulate this area. We are aware of the problems and needs of solving this area, however, given its really high complexity and the fact that this matter in the Member States has been solved in very different ways, and in order to truly analyse well together with the professional associations and the academic community in order to prepare and bring optimally and I would say the best solution, we are taking an additional deadline to solve this area. As I said at the outset amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Committee on Legislatives, the Proposer accepts and I thank everyone once again for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22187	I would like to thank the applicant's representative. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The following is the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.51. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representatives accepted the amendments and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. In accordance with Article 202. I give the Rules of Procedure the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 121 for, 3 abstentions and no votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. Therefore, this law confirms the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the improvement of the fulfilment of tax obligations at international level and the implementation of the so-called ‘U.S. Government’. FATCA. Therefore, in order to promote economic cooperation and deepen relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States on 20 March 2015, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the improvement of the fulfilment of tax obligations at international level and the implementation of the FATCA. The Agreement shall regulate the automatic exchange of information on the accounts of the residents of one State in the financial institutions of another State. The objective of the agreement is to detect and avoid tax evasion, and to improve the enforcement of tax obligations at international level, mutual assistance in tax matters on the basis of effective infrastructure for the automatic exchange of information. The Republic of Croatia signed an agreement with the United States on the basis of a model 1A agreement between the two governments which, unlike the other models of the FACTA implementation agreement, provides for a reciprocal exchange of information on accounts, which means that the US will also provide information on accounts owned by Croatian tax residents in US financial institutions. The term FATCA stands for the US Tax Obligations Act, which was adopted in 2010 by foreign financial institutions in order to prevent US taxpayers from using accounts in foreign financial institutions to pay taxes. FACTA requires foreign financial institutions to report to the US competent authority on the accounts held by US taxpayers. It is also required to report from foreign entities in which US taxpayers have a significant ownership stake. What is important to stress is that the sanctions for non-compliance under this law are the collection of 30% of taxes on certain payments from US sources or US residents. This 30 % deduction and the practical exclusion of financial institutions and their clients on the US market would be irreparable damage to financial institutions and their clients. So far, some forms of FACTA implementation agreement have come into effect either in the process between the United States and 113 world states. The process of adopting these multinational rules for the automatic exchange of information, for tax purposes creates a new transparent atmosphere for the business of banks and other financial institutions and significantly narrows down the possibility that individuals, companies and other legal persons may hide their financial assets in order to avoid paying tax obligations or to conceal criminal activities as a source or financial assets. The obligations of financial institutions relating to deep analysis and reporting prescribed by the agreement will contribute to the standardisation of these processes at global level, thereby facilitating the implementation of these processes by financial institutions. Such standardisation will also make it easier for the competent authorities to monitor the work of the financial institution and thus raise transparency of their business to a higher level. The agreement itself consists of three parts, a basic contract which defines the basic concepts used in the agreement, defines the accounts to be reported, the deadlines and the way information is exchanged, and cooperation on enforcement and implementation. In order to establish the reporting of accounts reported and payments to certain non-participating financial institutions, Appendix 1. Annex 2 to the Financial Institution and other actual users excluded from FACTA’s obligations. The information provided to the US by the Republic of Croatia is general information, name, address and American tax number, account number, name, identification number of the Croatian Reporting Financial Institution, account status or value. In the case of a custodian account, the account is therefore an account in favour of any other person who contains any financial instrument or investment contract, total gross amount of interest, total amount of dividends, total gross amount of other income obtained in relation to the assets on the account, total gross receipts from the sale or purchase of real estate, paid or credited to the account. In the case of each deposit account, the total gross amount of interest paid or credited to the account shall be reported. In the case of any other account other than a custody or deposit total gross amount paid or credited to the account holder. The information the US delivers is also that general information on the gross amount of interest paid to the deposit account, the gross amount of dividends with a source in the US paid or credited to the account, the gross amount of the remaining income with the source in the US paid or credited to the account. The Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, has developed an information application for the collection of information from financial institutions in the Republic of Croatia for compliance with the obligations laid down in the agreement and to refer that information to the safe internet channel of the United States. A system has also been developed to safely receive information that will be delivered by the US to the Republic of Croatia. The system is also being developed to make the most of information obtained in accordance with the agreement as well as from other sources. We therefore believe that such an active use of information obtained from abroad under this and other international agreements will significantly reduce the possibility of tax evasion as well as other criminal offences that are trying to cover up the use of accounts abroad. We also believe that the increasingly widespread automatic exchange of information in tax matters will significantly contribute to the reduction of red tape and the need for Croatian residents to prove the heights and sources of their incomes achieved abroad. This is the content of the agreement itself and given the fact that the agreement itself is signed and that there is essentially no possibility of its amendment at this stage, we propose that ratification or adoption of the law take place by emergency procedure. And another important reason is that tax, a possible deduction tax that the US could charge on financial transactions if this law did not come into force by the end of 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22191	Thank you, Proposer. Representative Gordan Maras, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22192	... Tufekčić, when you talk about this law that regulates certain things and confirms certain agreements between Croatia and the United States, I would warn you of one of the biggest problems that exist in the business of our US companies, this is still the lack of a Double Taxation Agreement, meaning avoiding double taxation. [[Specially enabled.]] Or all of our companies that work and make most of the income in the US, and here I think of the information companies that grow annually by 50%, and now they already employ 500, 600 people, several hundred million revenues, and that will go on more and more every year. And unfortunately, they have to start companies in England, Hungary and other countries that they have an agreement with the United States. So our entrepreneurs here hire people, which is good, pay them wages, contributions, etc., but unfortunately added value, or income most often recorded in their companies registered in other countries. I'd like to see instead of this law that you've proposed here today, we see the Law on Avoiding Double Taxation between the United States and the Republic of Croatia. This is what our economy needs most, especially the IT industry which is the fastest growing industry in the Republic of Croatia where we recognize the world and where I think we have a very big chance of showing great progress in the future. So give us that law, show us the success of diplomacy and the Ministry of Finance in agreement with the United States of America on avoidance of double taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22193	Thank you, Agent Maras. Representative Miro Bulj, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your presentation, you said at the end of the exhibition that there was no longer any effect on any change to this proposal, that this agreement had been ratified and that it was going into an emergency procedure. We really mean MPs now can only vote on it. It means no change. Can you explain what it means when it comes to parliamentary deputies a done act and that we can only vote on it without having any other changes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22195	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22196	This is the nature of international agreements, so the international agreements between the Republic of Croatia and other countries with international financial institutions etc. It's basically signed by the government and ratified by the Parliament. So legal solutions predict such a procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22197	Thank you for your response. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club for Participation in the debate, representatives Dragica Roscic also applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22198	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government or the Ministry of Finance, the Secretary of State, the distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say something on behalf of the HDZ Club on this occasion about FACTA, means an agreement that we are still confirming by law this way in the House. It would refer to the chronology of the very signing of the agreement and then the addition to the agreement that preceded the adoption of this law which tells us why this law is adopted by an urgent procedure but has highlighted some other facts which make it important to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. Of course, if we didn't bring it all down to that level, this is something we have to do, this is just a formality that would clearly point out here which is the purpose of this agreement because I think that's what we're all trying to do so so that we would like to highlight this opportunity and stress what possible problems are in the implementation of this law and what we have to look forward to in the future is not all about this agreement. Enough of this on the Republic of Croatia how to deal with certain issues related to this law. So she originally signed a convention for mutual administrative assistance in tax matters. So we signed it in 2013 on 11 October and it took effect in June 2014. The convention itself is a prerequisite that we could even negotiate with the United States and we have started negotiating since the entry into force of the Convention and we have signed, then Minister Lalovac signed in March 2015. A framework for the exchange of information for the purpose of taxation, including the automatic exchange of information, has been set up to enable competent authorities, means a party to reach agreement on how to apply the Convention and taking into account existing laws in the United States. Why is it important that we have this agreement? Of course, we could discover some tax evasions and we definitely want to discover them, we have to cooperate with countries where our citizens' accounts are, or where they are with us, and we have to cooperate and exchange information, because there is no other way to get any information about tax evasion at all if we do not cooperate with the state in which these accounts are located. The objective of this Agreement is to detect tax evasion avoidance and improve enforcement of tax obligations at international level of mutual assistance in tax matters on the basis of effective infrastructure for the automatic exchange of information. It is therefore necessary to set up the entire infrastructure and some sanctions in order to also have an obligation to exchange such information and to implement this agreement properly. So in the first agreement, it was said that it ceased on 30 September 2015 but what happened when the agreement was signed that translated version in Croatian was not yet recognised by the US government as equally valuable, the deadline extended and then it was necessary to sign an addendum to the agreement in order to extend the original meaning of the agreement at all, or the whole content that was in the agreement itself. And it just happened, so the translation of the agreement to Croatia was confirmed in June of this year because it only comes to our agenda now and if we don't get it by the end of 2016, it's possible that the US government means without that law that we have confirmed the agreement on financial transactions, as our secretary of state said, means that they even have a 30% tax on these transactions. In order for us to prevent this, this law is required by an emergency procedure to confirm. What else would I say about the agreement itself? It consists of three works, so in the first part we have basic concepts that are used in the agreement, which are reported to accounts, deadlines, how information is exchanged, and cooperation on enforcement and implementation. So he had an addition of one di to the depth analysis procedures to determine and report accounts reported and payments to certain non-participating financial institutions. So the agreement does not prescribe everything and does not mean everything for the application of the same thing is left to each State, the parties separately, meaning that it adopts certain regulations also in domestic tax legislation, and this refers to the authorisation of the implementation of the deep analysis and the identification of the accounts to be reported, as well as the provision of information in accordance with the agreement means Croatian financial institutions of the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration which then provides that information to the US competent authority. So that's the part we're sorting out for ourselves. This also applies to the regulation of infringement provisions for non-compliance with the agreement and those provisions will be prescribed by other laws, the Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of tax. What is more important to stress is that there is no need to provide additional resources to enforce this law. And here we have already pointed out why this law is being passed by emergency procedure. What are possible problems is the scope of personal data collection, here's a year ago when my bank asked me to deliver the data to them according to this signed agreement. They asked me for a lot of information. And I asked them if I had to give you all this information, because there was a lot of personal data, and it's important to protect the personal data after all. And they answered me then, so no, some you can answer, some you don't have to deliver to us, and maybe other citizens won't ask that, and then they'll give the bank all that data, and the banks on the ground as we see them know how to collect for their own needs as part of collecting this data. They can collect some additional data, so it's important that clearly citizens know the extent of the collection of personal data. Banks do not use this law, or agreement to collect any additional information, and it is important that we form and inform as many citizens as possible about this. So I can finally say that this club will support, meaning the adoption of this law. I would also point out that Article 1 means the final draft of the law is determined that the Croatian Parliament is signing the agreed agreement. Article 2 means we have in this law and the original in English, and in the Croatian language which is equally credible, the exchange of notes in Article 3 has been established so that we have an additional agreement in this original and in English and in Croatian, and it is determined that the implementation of the law on the deliriousness of the central authority of the State Administration is responsible for financial affairs. From the above, I believe that I have given the factors that require the Croatian Parliament to confirm this law. There you go, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22199	Thank you, Agent Roscic. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22200	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of Roscic, your personal data, the way banks collect them, and for what purposes, prompted me to do so. Namely, I would like to draw attention to your attention, but also to the Croatian public. I think that a lot of work needs to be done to raise awareness of the protection of personal data, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a Personal Data Protection Agency that is dealing with this problem right now, so that all citizens who have possible objections, or ask whether any personal data can be collected, how, why, to whom, or if you have any doubts personal or any of our colleagues and colleagues, please contact the Agency. So they're also the ones who are responsible for monitoring, so they're also monitoring how to collect personal data, but also their use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22201	Reply to the replica of Representative Rosčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22202	I thank my colleague. It is precisely through cooperation with the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data that such information has also taken place on the ground and is gathering the scope of the data rather than necessary, meaning it is given by this Agreement. So here I am also stressing that in all other ways informing on the pages means institutions that collect data, on the pages of our government which our citizens need to give, and what data is, means those that they decide whether to give or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22203	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're gonna take a break. We continue at 15.00 hours with the final draft law amending the law on public records, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 43. Thank you. It's 13,24 hours. The following is the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the improvement of the fulfilment of tax obligations at international level and the implementation of the FATCA, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.44. Proposer of the Act Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the improvement of the fulfilment of tax obligations at international level and the implementation of the FATCA. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 122 for, 1 abstention and 3 against the adoption of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the improvement of the fulfilment of tax obligations at international level and the implementation of the FATCA.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22205	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. There are two more points of the agenda for today. The first is, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Registration and thereafter, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. We're counting on two points to do in the next few hours, hopefully, maybe less. So, the first next item is: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Public Literature, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 43 The act promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You've received reports in the shadows. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Please, this is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, the distinguished Mrs Sanja Misevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22206	The Law on Public Literature concerns the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union which prohibits discrimination against business origin. Therefore, the condition in the current law for a person to be appointed public notary is citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. We are supplementing this intervention in a way that the appointed citizens of other EU member states will be able to be, of course, assuming they satisfy other conditions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22207	Thank you very much. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If they don't want us to have only one debate so far reported, it's the HDZ Representatives' Club and distinguished counterpart Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22208	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected State Secretary. We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Registration, which requires the adoption of an emergency procedure. It is, in fact, an amendment to one of the articles of the Law on Public Registration due to commitments made by the Republic of Croatia or the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. Therefore, Article 13(1) of the Public Note Act amends the discriminatory provisions of the Public Note Act which, as a condition for the appointment of a public notary, prescribes the nationality of the Republic of Croatia, contrary to the current practice and legal understanding of the EU Court of Justice, which restricts the conditions of nationality for the appointment of public notaries to be discriminatory and contrary to Article 49. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU as a primary source of EU law. Therefore, this proposed amendment to the Public Note Act now allows all EU citizens to be appointed a public notary in the Republic of Croatia after fulfilling all other conditions. In view of the above, it is clear that the proposed names are on the trail of commitments made by the Republic of Croatia to join the EU and the commitments made to respect EU legal practice. I believe that, regardless of the proposed amendments, it is questionable whether someone from EU member states will be appointed as a public notary in the Republic of Croatia despite the proposed amendment to the provisions of the Law on Public Literature because there are a number of other restrictive conditions laid down in Article 13. Law on public records for the appointment of a public notary that will be difficult to overcome by someone who is not a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, there is no concern that citizens from EU member states will take over our public notaries or be competitive with them when appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22209	Thank you very much. Any replicas? There isn't. Then we actually exhausted the debate about this wheel, and then I'm just gonna lock it up and we'll vote when we get the conditions. It was a replica? ... I mean, the procedure is procedure, but come on, I'll be broad-handed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22210	I didn't expect to be so brief then... so I would like to ask a question in this we see by law that European public notebooks can compete with us, so I ask if they are obliged to know the Croatian language as well as our people who go out there even the workers have to respect it, so by the way, one question that is not explained in this question, so I don't know. Well, I guess the Croatian Parliament should know about those who would come under a questionnaire from outside, whether they should know Croatian. Here, I didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22211	What form was this now? It was not a replica, this was a question addressed to the applicant, and the applicant has the opportunity to address it at the end of the debate, and here we are going to allow the secretary of state to answer this question. But I'm asking you to stick to the procedure and not do things like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22212	So I pointed out that it is complemented provided that such a person meets the other provisions that are the condition that they would be appointed as a public notary, and that is the case with regard to the question that you asked in this same article under paragraph 8 which is actively ruling in Croatian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22213	So here's where we closed this debate, and we'll vote when we get the conditions. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22214	The following is the final proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Literature, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.43. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Public Registration. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. Most of the vote 120 for, without abstentions and 4 votes against, was passed the Law amending the Law on Public Registration.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22215	We now move on to: The final draft law on alternative consumer dispute resolution, not sorry, that's tomorrow. - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No 47. Proposal for a Act of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and you received reports at the session. I would now again like to ask the representative of the proposal to the distinguished Mrs Sanja Misevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice to explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22216	The Honored Vice-President, Honored Representatives and Representatives, interventions in this law relate to additions to salaries prescribed by the same law for the Vice-Presidents of the Courts or other judicial principals. And so this law determined that these persons were entitled to an addendum. Such a provision was already incorporated into the law itself when it was voted. However, given the state budgets as they were from year to year, the provision of this article is, or its application has been, derogated every year and for the last time in 2014, when it is said not to apply in 2015 and 2016. In view of this practice, the Constitutional Court pointed out that it is not appropriate to the democratic state, so it is not appropriate to continuously derogate the application of certain provisions of the law for several years. In view of the projection of the budget for 2017, it is proposed, and I say in view of this outstanding objection by the Constitutional Court, this provision is completely deleted from the law, especially bearing in mind the fact that, in 2017, the amount and scope of individual material rights of judicial officials is once again particularly regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22217	I thank State Secretary Misevic, we are correcting a mistake, I apologize on behalf of everyone who has done it, and we are going to the debate because only if the chairman of the Justice Committee Mr. Bauk wants to. He doesn't want to. Then we move on to the debate. The first came to the floor by distinguished counterpart Marko Šimic on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22218	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, however, it is true that the amendment of the Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officials, a small amendment, as well as a small correction, was made in the opening statement. The important moments for amending this law are as follows. I'll only list a few. Salaries and other material rights of judicial officials in the Republic of Croatia are governed by the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. This law has been amended and complemented several times. In 2014, it was one of the major amendments to this law. The Constitutional Court therefore found by its decision and by its decision that all elements of the salaries of judicial officials must be based on the law or by a certain law. Article 5 of the applicable law lays down the right to supplement the salary of officials assigned to the Vice-Presidents of the courts or of the Deputy Head of the Other Judicial Authorities or Judges who carry out the duties of the Head of the Department or of the Head of Department. After that, the next important moment took place in 2014 when the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in its report on the legislative practice of successive multiannual derogation of recognised rights determines that the legislative practice of consecutive multi-annual derogation of rights does not correspond to a democratic state based on the rule of law. The third moment to amend this law is actually common, 14 times the application of this law has been delayed so that since 1999 it has been postponed 14 times, so we believe in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community that all the conditions for this article to be deleted. It is important to note that the budget of the Republic of Croatia, as the Government submitted to us on the benches in its proposal, is not intended for the 2017 budget, so the funds provided for to achieve these material rights and the Government notes in this proposal that all the material rights of judges will be governed by the new law in 2017, which we in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community are warmly hoping because we believe that the time has really matured for this issue to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22219	Thank you. There's no replica. We have another club of representatives, it's MOST independent lists and distinguished colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22220	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a very short proposal for a law that applies to only one legal article, however, it is worth showing about. The MOST representative club will, of course, support the proposed bill, but it is important for us to stress in the debate for a few moments. First of all, the first moment stemming from the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia that all elements for the calculation of the salaries of judges and judicial officials must be based on the law passed by the Croatian Parliament and not on the decision of the Government. Before the Constitutional Court decision, the coefficient for judges and other judicial officials established the Croatian Assembly and the basis for the salary, the government determined by a special decision. It is now in the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers and one and the other element for the determination of pay is established by the Law of the Croatian Parliament, and such a situation is currently not in that other law which speaks of the obligations and rights of civil servants, and we in MOST believe that this other law, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, should also be amended in the same direction. The second thing that is relevant to us is the fact that the Constitutional Court also pointed out that there is one multiannual practice of derogating certain recognised rights in certain legal texts and one of the equative examples, it is precisely delegated rights in that law where, as already stated 14 times, the application of an article that speaks of additions to the salary of certain judicial officials when you have delayed the application of a certain right for so many years is also a matter of the very existence of a certain right. And in this respect, in a situation where no funds are provided for in the Republic of Croatia's budget for this to be better and better-quality, a normative solution is now to abolish this right and indicate, as the Government here indicates, that the whole issue of material rights, judges and judicial officials will be regulated in the following year by a new regulation. In this regard, we support the proposed law to repeal Article 5 and in accordance with the decisions, opinions and views of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22221	Thank you, too. There's no replica again, then we move on to an individual debate, distinguished colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22222	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. It is difficult to list all the laws that regulate the salaries of those who receive salaries from the state budget. I will try to list some of those in such a hurry, the Law on the Rights of State Officials, the Law on State Officials, the Law on the Payments of Legal Officers, then a bunch of special laws where some of the institutions in which these heads of institutions are listed as having a salary etc.. So one such general, I won't call a mess but one creative, general creative mess in the way of determining the salaries of all those who receive salaries from the state budget. Of course, in 2008, it was still so arranged. Then when the crisis came, they began to establish different bases, so the coefficients changed, and institutions were set up and wages were defined in different ways. So we now actually have what a Croatian politician of the 21st century and then many resented it, knowingly distorting it by the fact that he said it, so we have this typical case, the random state. So the one who forgot to take off her salary because of the crisis remained bigger and the one who was the first to hit remained smaller. Judicial officials have come to one situation that something worse has gone than civil servants, but still something better has passed than state officials. What was originally intended to be some sort of al-major, so the President of the Supreme Court probably with the Prime Minister or something like that, we came to an entirely inexplicable and unnecessary distinction that could increase further with some proposals. That is why, of course, it is not possible in this law because you are passing this law, but you have already said why and because the state budget is being passed, so it is good to know how to plan the expenditures for the next period. However, I think that the whole state, i.e. the state and public administration, is crying out for one law that would equally define the salaries of all those who receive salaries from the state budget. This is one of the parts of the Strategy for the Development of Public Administration, so I appeal, here is the State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice but certainly as a representative of the Government to move into the project and be sufficiently politically willing to complete the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22223	Thank you. No more interested in the debate. I call even if there is a need for the State Secretary, the distinguished Mrs. Sanja Misevic still to give a final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22224	The only thing I can say is that we have to go with something, and here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22225	Okay. Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. This was the last item planned for today's work day, so we'll finish it, we'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 votes, we'll put some new points on the agenda, so I invite you to meet me at 9.30 tomorrow. On Saturday, as you also know, it is a working day and we will discuss the budget for 2017. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-08-0.u22226	The following is the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.47. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that with 118 votes for, 5 abstentions and no votes against the Law amending the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the Representative Aleksic, go ahead.
