ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18035	/Intruder: Microphone turn on./ 10 minutes break to talk about truths, half-truths and manipulations of truth that generate in the short and long term as a model that generates political instability in Croatia in the short and long term. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18036	Representative Pernar. Please just wait a minute. Mr. Skoric, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18037	Here's your respect, Mr. President. I am also looking for a break because of the great Serb insult of the Croatian state and the Croatian people in the past days.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18038	Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18039	I'd like to take 10 minutes to discuss the problem that marijuana is not yet legalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18040	Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18041	Dear President, 10 minutes of rest to look back on the untruths spoken yesterday in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18042	If there are no other requests, I'll grant a 10-minute break. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first representative to report for the break is representative Goran Dodig, asking to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18044	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have actually been invited by yesterday's presentation of Professor Nazor on storage and truth and documents that are important for every society and state I have come to the conclusion that it would be convenient to say the following Parliament is not only that, there is not only a function to pass laws although it is a basic function for him but to send messages. We live in a society where the truth is to deny, distort, ultimately manipulate the public with half-truths, all leading to serious problems in society that we have which manifest instability and political and people and individuals, people and individuals, have unspeakable consequences for the individual. Individuals in terms of their uncertainty to groups, families, etc. In this truth, a picture is formed of itself and the environment in which an individual lives and pictures of others. Today we have more truths that we hardly can, that we can deal with. It is often manifested about these different truths in this House. For this opportunity, I will give 3 examples, an example of how to manipulate the truth or how the truth is not knowing that truth is the fact that we started today at the week of 71, when the arrest of Zagreb students began. That's when my dear friends were arrested in a week, over 2,000 students were estimated. These are the first victims of Croatian Spring. More than 2,000 students in a week later, a group came along as a professor then was Franjo Tudjman, Vlado Gotovina, in January but I will only mention these students now. It wouldn't have been in itself scary if those students hadn't been deprived of their civil rights, couldn't have gone to elections, had their families not been killed, couldn't have gotten passports, couldn't have gotten jobs and so forth. And I'll just tell you why, why were we in jail? Here, for example. What we said on 27.3.1971, we are a generation that is not burdened with history, nor will they allow anyone to be attributed to the sins of the past. We have the right to a political act regardless of what a large part of us outside the communist alliance we must not remain, listen to this 71st we must not remain passive observers of social readings at the moment when most of our biological and intellectual potential lies across the countries of Western Europe and Australia. When our blood-earned dinar floats on the river without returning, it was thought of Sava of course. Can we be silent when we are in a situation where our entire areas remain desolate, for example, islands? When we know that much of our beautiful Adriatic is in subjugated relations with powerful and privileged... Aren't we the investment of our working man, isn't he sick of schooling for Western Europe, staff for Western Europe? Isn't it our duty to pay that worker back after that debt? We are bound by history and the future to ring the alarm when we know that we are more dying than we are born, can we remain silent and when our man begins to lose his most important features like language and national culture? Are we going to let our fate continue to be designed by the terrible remains of the past that there is still plenty left. So that's said 71. That's why we were dear friends in prison, and today our prisons are being spoken of by those who arrested us. Another way to talk about the truth in different ways is what 20 years after 71 years of arrest during the Homeland War was one big exchange of prisoners in which all of Croatia participated both in the northern part and in the southern part. Then it was, it was the biggest exchange. Read the book of Stjepan Adanic so you will see how much huma, it is one humanitarian action as many humanitarian elements and humanitarian events were in this action. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] That's not what you're talking about anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18045	Thank you, Agent Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18046	I'm sorry I still had a third, only if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18047	A representative of the Living Wall, Ivan Pernar, called for a break. I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18048	... Thank you all, Your Honor. [[Specially enabled.]] In this House, I am a representative of mostly younger people, or young generations, and those generations do not torment the subjects that plague most of the people sitting here. In fact, many young people would like marijuana legalized because of what they consume, they are actually exposed to political persecution. I say politically because it's policy that decides whether marijuana will be legal or not. Since she is not many of them have to go through the Criminal Courts, they get fines etc. If Croatia legalized marijuana, it would become a capital of tourism as well as the Netherlands. Tourists would come here all year, have more foreign exchanges, the deficit would be smaller. People say they sell mandarins for kuna in Metkovic, for Kuna. And he says if the hemp were legalized, we'd all move on to profitable cultures. Also in Slavonia, which now grow corn and wheat with losses tomorrow could also be successful farmers. I think the legalisation of marijuana would lead to the renaissance of our agriculture, to the Renaissance of tourism, and I think many people would be happier in this otherwise dark country. And if young people were to ask if they would move out of our country, I believe that many would say so there's at least one reason why they could stay here. I hope this House accepts our proposal to legalize marijuana that we will refer to in the procedure and have hearts for all these young people, because it is not right for them to live in fear. The other day I was with a group of them who were smoking marijuana and they were all shaking. They say Ivan, what if we get caught? And I told them young people, gentlemen of the HDZ, the whole state has been stolen, none of them shaking in the Parliament. And that's why...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18049	I'd like to ask you to stick to the subject and not insult others.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18050	Okay. Excuse me, Mr. Petrov. And I just want to say that young people need to be freed, and there is no freedom in this country. And I say many of them are exposed to this political persecution. So imagine you going to the courts because you had one joint? Isn't that a shame? They have done no harm to anyone, and it is too much to talk about all the beneficial effects of marijuana at all. Let's say the oil that's made of it cures cancer. Many are cured. Rick Simpson made a movie about it, and we're often heard from the Living Wall by people who know where to get that oil? How do you get to that? And we can only say until the Living Wall comes to power that oil will be illegal, you will have to pay it dearly and will actually be denied your right to a natural cure. The living wall stands up against, so to speak, against the interest of pharmaceutical lobbies. The pharmaceutical lobbys want us to side by side, let's say when Tim Oreshkovic came from Canada, he said you wouldn't be the Croats here to produce. No, no, we're gonna import it from Canada, that marijuana. So we advocate that it is produced here and that it can be consumed at a relatively low price. There are also many other products such as textiles that can be made from marijuana, or hemp. And that's also an entire broad spectrum actually of its application. All this wide spectrum, so hundreds of products can't be done right now because of this prohibition policy that both HDZ and SDP are doing, because the restrictions are large. They're just, someone's gonna say she's been decriminalized, that something's been made possible. But in essence, these are all letters on paper, and the greatest evidence for this is the fact that hemp, i.e. marijuana in Croatia, is not produced in large quantities, although there is a great demand for it. And that's why we have to import marijuana from, say, Albania and where, and who's the only one profiting from it? Profits by foreign producers, these dealers profit from it, and our citizens actually pay the price. And instead of meaning, citizens are currently paying the price of making these mounted court proceedings, which through fines, which through the high price of marijuana, on the other hand is profited by dealers. And I think that should be the end of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18051	Thank you. The representative of the Most Independent Lists, Nikola Grumoja, reported for a break. I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18052	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Here yesterday our colleague Zmajlović is here in his presentation, i.e. at a stop he sought to present a series of lies. He shamelessly called on Minister Dobrovic, a man who seeks to resolve the riot he left behind to resign. And now I'm going to count all the false claims here, and there are a lot of them that he made yesterday in his presentation. So it is a false claim that the European Commission approved the Waste Management Plan that Zmajlovic and Milanovic's government prepared and did not adopt. The European Commission's official comments on the legal and sub-legislative acts are only made after their adoption by the Government, so that the European Commission could not even approve the Dragons' plan since they did not bring it in one year after the deadline for the adoption of the document. Therefore, as early as September last year, the European Commission launched an infringement of law against Croatia. The quality of the SDP plan is at least questionable. It is enough to look at the European Commission's remarks on their plan, which the Ministry of Environment and Nature received in January 2016. These comments were incorporated into the plan. Here are a few comments on the Dragon's plan. It has been completely missed by an assessment of the fulfilment of the Depositor Directive's obligations, page 12. The waste management system has been developed upside down, with which it is continued and planned. There is no separate collection of biowaste, a poor waste prevention system, general non-ambitiousness in achieving the objectives of separate waste collection. There's plenty of meddling. Therefore, the plan and claims, at the very least, should make former Minister Zmajlovic ashamed, not proud of them and ask for the resignation of Minister Dobrovic. Minister Zmajlovic and everyone in Kukurik should also be ashamed of the coalition or the People's Coalition for the fact that they have not withdrawn any euro funds to develop a separate waste collection system. There is primarily construction of sortery and composts, half a million kunas of national resources spent not buying inadequate vehicles for the transport of waste and buckets without any strategy or vision. The EU funds are spent only on the realisation of re-accumulated waste management centres that cannot possibly allow Croatia to collect 50% of paper, glass, plastics and metal by 2020. Local self-government units that wanted to prevent citizens from funding overpaid waste management centres are systematically chicanated. All these remarks were incorporated in the Proposal for a Waste Management Plan 2016-2022, and this document brings hope that Croatia could finally move in the right direction when it comes to waste management. The question arises, are they in the so-called Have you ever heard of the circulatory economy to the people's coalition? Former Minister Zmajlovic calls not only Minister Dobrovic but also the entire government of the Republic of Croatia for delaying the adoption of the Waste Management Plan, and forgets to say that he is responsible for the delay and that the government is now correcting the mistakes of his missed policies and labour. So former Minister Zmajlovic did not bring a waste management plan in time. The plan was to be adopted as early as 31 December 2014 and was missed throughout 2015, which is why the European Commission launched this violation of the rights I mentioned. The only question here is if he's so much in favour of the concept that he advocated why didn't he bring in the plan while he was a minister and why did he let the commission start a violation of rights? That says enough for herself. Because the concept he advocated at the time was the only one that corresponded to the waste mafia, with which he was likely to be connected, not in line with eu policies, but in 2005 he took over an outdated model in which waste management rests at waste management centres. Instead of inciting the introduction of such a system, the ministry refused to finance or reject project funding requirements for Zmajlovic's mandate. So Minister Zmajlovic did not have the strength to change the concept in line with new European policies. Minister Dobrovic has the strength and will not be stopped by those associated with the waste mafia, he will not be stopped by former Minister Zmajlovic and Croatia will finally move towards a circulatory economy. So, Mr. Dragons? He's not here, but you'd better be ashamed to keep your mouth shut. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] to fit your ears and let people who know they're doing their job. [[Subject Petrov: Representative Nikola Grmoja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u18053	Mr. Grmoy's representative, Representative Miro Bulj, I'd like to ask for your order. The first item on the agenda today is: - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of a deputy and deputy attorney for persons with disabilities. The proposer shall be the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities pursuant to Article 4. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. The material was delivered to the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Anka Slonjšak's attorney for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24030	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. In accordance with Articles 3, 4, 21 and 22. I published a public call for candidates and candidates to appoint two deputies and a deputy lawyer for disabled persons, on the website and in the newspaper Vecernji list and in the National Journal. A total of 37 applications have arrived for a public call. One application was rejected because it arrived after the date of publication, while one person did not meet the formal requirement. With 34 people, an interview was published. They were held on 25th, 26th, 28, 29th and 30th November in the rooms of the attorney's office. On 30 November, a ranking of candidates and candidates for the job in question was established following an examination of the documentation received. As for persons with disabilities and other groups under special rules on a public call, two persons with disabilities, one defender of the legal profession, and two persons with disabilities and one... other profession. In view of the eight-year experience so far, the procedure has been carried out in a way that, with a review of the documentation, I have conducted a direct interview with all 34 candidates in order to select the best candidate who will satisfy the post of deputy or deputy attorney for persons with disabilities in the exercise of duties from simple to most complex tasks. After the first round of talks, four candidates were selected to hold an additional second round of talks. After the procedure, a decision was made to propose to the Croatian Parliament candidates Mr Dari Jurisic and Mira Pekic Knezevic. Although the Advocate's Law, on the basis of which the Advocates and his deputies are elected, gives the Advocate's Office the power to choose the closest associates, I would like to further clarify the criteria that I have led in the selection of candidates that I have proposed to you. The Ombudsman's law states that when a lawyer is appointed for persons with disabilities or one of his deputies has a person with disabilities, if he meets all the conditions required by the competition. Since in this case I was elected as a lawyer, and the person I am with disability, the requirement to take advantage of that person with disabilities is satisfied. An extremely large number of candidates, including persons with disabilities and Croatian wartime wartime disability from the Homeland War, have shown truly enviable results, but also quality. However, in the selection of one of the candidates of the legal profession, we should have decided on a person who meets most of the required criteria. Under the legal profession and experience of working to protect and promote human rights of persons with disabilities, but also in general, as well as the specificity of discrimination procedures, I also sought a person with experience of management and presentation skills and excellent knowledge of English. That is because one of the important roles of the Ombudsman is the area of international cooperation and the presentation of offices and participation in expert discussions on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and at various international forums in Europe and the world. The Ombudsman's office is also a member of international bodies, participates in the work of numerous international conferences presenting the work of offices and Croatian experiences, and reports the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We also share international experiences and present good foreign practices in Croatia. Because I am also the most disabled person who, because of his lack of accessibility as well as the adaptability of air transport, very often cannot personally represent an office in such situations, it is of utmost importance to me whether one of the deputies can represent an office on those occasions. Since I have asked all candidates the same questions concerning their competences, but also previous experience in working to protect and promote the rights of persons with disabilities especially on the subject of visions of work as future deputies, two candidates have defined the strategic objectives and concrete activities of this office from the position of a potential deputy. So I continue to explain the candidates. Mr. Dario Jurisic graduated from the Faculty of Law in Osijek, a postgraduate specialist in the management and development of local and regional self-government at the Faculty of Law in Osijek, and since 2012, he has been a doctorate of postgraduate interdisciplinary doctoral studies, a European study in Osijek. The applicant has been further trained professionally from 2010 to 2016. He passed a state professional exam in 2010 and gained work experience from the Office of State Administration in Zagreb County, through the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Ministry of Labour and Pensions, and today he is employed by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure as Head of the Road Safety Service. The appointed candidate is a member of the Committee of the Government for Persons with Disabilities since 2013, a member of the delegation of Croatia for the defence of the initial report of Croatia on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, before the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Geneva, a member of the Committee of the Ministry of Appeals against Decisions brought by inspectors, co-ordinator of the Ministry concerning the implementation of the National Strategy for Equality of Persons with Disabilities, as well as a representative of the new National Strategy in its Working Group. He was involved in making regulations regarding the position of persons with disabilities. He actively participated in expert meetings and discussions on the subject of the rights of persons with disabilities. Over the past eight years, the lawyer's office has successfully collaborated with Mr. Dario Jurisic during his employment as senior management adviser at the ministry. He also worked on the evidence and application of recommendations related to the resolution of individual complaints by parties, and related to children with disabilities and persons with disabilities, and informed the Ombudsman about the rights changes as well as annual reports, provided annual reports on the Ministry's data relating to persons using the rights of payment of toll and other rights. He participated as a representative of the ministry in a series of accessibility and mobility meetings and contributed to proposals to improve the application of existing rules. With regard to the documentation of candidates and after talks, Mr Jurisic was found responsible and a professional person of developed communication skills, ready to face challenges, and what distinguishes him from other candidates is knowledge and an exceptional interest in improving the situation of people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, which shows concrete proposals and initiatives. During the talks, he stressed his participation in international discussions, conferences in English, and related to the problem of disabled people. The gentleman is informatively educated, has diplomas of certified and advanced informational knowledge and knowledge of English C2 level excellent, and German B2 level well. He's not a member of any political party. Ms. Mira Pekić Knezevic graduated from the secondary school in Slunj, the Higher School for Social Workers in Zagreb and the Joint Study for Social Work where she graduated and obtained a professional title as a graduate social worker. Work experience was gained in 1977 at the Centre for Child and Youth Education in Dugava, then at the Centre for Social Work at the Department of Protection of Persons with Disabilities Zagreb, and since 2001 she has worked as co-ordinator in the first-degree body of the Social Care Centre of Zagreb. From 17 October 2008 until the end of the eight-year term, she served as Deputy Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. As a lecturer or active participant of the debate, she participated in numerous expert meetings, conferences and symposiums in the country and abroad on protection and monitoring and promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities. In addition, it has been trained by attending different courses and educational workshops. Mrs. Mira Pekić Knezevic has a distinct capacity of complexity, patience and concentrated communication, she is a professional, responsible and entrepreneurship person. It is highly motivated to continue to carry out the duties of Deputy Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and considers that it can further improve the situation of persons with disabilities on individual complaints, propose amendments to relevant legislation and initiatives to improve the situation of persons with disabilities. As deputy attorney, Mrs. Pekić Knezevic has been selflessly sharing her knowledge and experience with her younger associates and associates for the past eight years and has been their daily support. It is tolerated, honest and sensitive to solving the problems and specificities of children with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities. All tasks have always been fulfilled in a committed, responsible and professional manner. What is different from other candidates is the knowledge of the overall issues related to the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities including legislation, public policy and international obligations of Croatia, with the ability to apply a multidisciplinary approach to the resolution of individual cases as well as to find complete solutions. It is actively used in English and is trained in information. He is also not a member of any political party. Here's a thank you for giving me the proposal of future deputies and deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24031	Thank you, Attorney General, for the disabled. Replica was reported by MP Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24032	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here we are today witnessing the final completion of the attorney general's office for people with disabilities. I think it was inadmissible what happened in the past term that we should have chosen a lawyer for over four months even though we knew that Ms. Attorney's office was the best candidate for this, so eventually we ended up being both the deputy attorney and she's out of office. So thank God that we have finally solved that part and that the Ombudsman can continue with his full work that is extremely good and good. And I hope that it will further work on the employment of persons with disabilities, the quota employment of persons with disabilities is implemented even more in Croatia, that as many employers in Croatia employ persons with disabilities because they are people who are committed to their work, they are good workers, people who give everything they can within their abilities. And I hope that the Ombudsman will continue to work on the work of both employers, especially the Croatian Employers' Association as a better partner and the Ombudsman's office as well as the employment office for persons with disabilities, and I hope that this institution will continue to work even better than it has done so far. There was a sign that he was supposed to be destroyed, shut down, but here, in the end, the Bureau stayed and thanks to the attorney general, and I'm glad he's finally got a team in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24033	Thank you, Agent Mrsic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Ines Strenja-Linić, chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24034	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives, the Honorable Advocates. I would just like to say that yesterday the Committee held its session, where it is urgent, after we received a proposal a few days ago for the deputy attorney and deputy attorney, unanimously adopted the proposal for a decision to appoint a deputy and deputy attorney for persons with disabilities. I'd also like to inform you, today you've all got on benches and these CDs, two words about what the intensity of this committee and these governments is really like. On 3 December, the Prime Minister, 1st meeting of the Government just to repeat, 1st session of the Parliament has already been dedicated and has been immediately put on the agenda and decision to appoint the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, the Prime Minister gathered all roof associations and representatives of persons with disabilities and the Ombudsman on 3 December the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and yesterday was held a thematic session on the subject, namely on the 10th anniversary of the adoption of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. So the Convention that was of great importance to persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. So yesterday we gathered at the the thematic session of numerous representatives of associations, educational and rehabilitation schools, the Faculty of Medicine, alliances, roof associations, persons with disabilities, all the lawyers were present, representatives of all the ministries that had to implement the UN Convention in their regulations, laws, etc. So let me remind you that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 13 December 2006 and yesterday was the 10th anniversary of which the Republic of Croatia signed among the first countries in the world and the Croatian Parliament ratified it immediately among the first in June 2007 and thus this Parliament made a commitment to the full achievement of all fundamental human rights and the achievement of equality of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. In 2015, the UN Committee discussed the initial report on the first 5 years of the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and was delivered to you today. The report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the parallel reports were submitted by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and the Association of the Alliance of persons with disabilities in Croatia. On the basis of these reports, the UN Committee addressed recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which provide further guidance for the implementation of the Convention and the next report will be in 2021. The understanding of the disability that the Convention promotes is revolutionary because it emphasises that the society that makes a person disabled is the result of the failure of society, to include all persons and to accept differences between individuals in order for the entire Croatian society to become familiar with this newspaper and to turn towards people with disabilities is necessary to conduct discussions from the lowest to the highest levels. Since the entry into force of this Convention 10 years ago, great efforts have been made in the Republic of Croatia to comply with this international document during the adoption of laws and regulations affecting the lives of persons with disabilities. It is therefore the task of all of us parliamentary representatives and, above all, those who will prepare for our recommendations and laws to contribute and often call for the importance of understanding people with disabilities as well as promoting equality. So yesterday's thematic sessions were held to point out once again the need to look at all aspects before the adoption of the National Equality Strategy for Persons with Disabilities, which should have been adopted in 2016, will obviously be in the early spring of 2017 and which plans to implement these UN recommendations that have not been implemented so far. So, I would just like to say once again, on 28.11. in Croatia there were 511 thousand 906 people with disabilities, which is 12% of our population and of that, as many as 40,000 children from 0-19 years of age. So for the purpose of raising awareness and implementing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, you have been shared today and this text, as I have said, with the CD. In the manual you will see examples from different countries explain the basic principles of a new approach to people with disabilities, such as the principle of reasonable adaptation, which is a whole new term that we can actually meet now in all documents, so reasonable adaptation and they make extremely valuable recommendations on the ways in which we Assembly representatives can contribute to its implementation and thus achieve what is our common goal to all and that is to improve the rights of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24035	Thank you to Ines Strenja-Linić, presidents of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I'm opening a debate. The discussion was first reported by the HDZ Representatives' Club on their behalf, Ljubica Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24036	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Attorneys, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, it is my special honor and pleasure that today, here in this House, the Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities represents his/her deputy and deputy. How important this was for people with disabilities to see in last year's term. I'm saying this because the D.A. herself can't handle all the work he has to do for people with disabilities, so her deputies are just as busy as she is. Of course, with all her colleagues and colleagues in the office. As far as the candidate is concerned, you heard the Ombudsman describe one and another candidate very closely, I will say on this occasion that Mrs. Mira Pekic Knezevic has known all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia for a very long time. So back 8 years in which she acted as deputy attorney as well as before when she was employed at the welfare center. So people with disabilities have had a lot of experience with her before. In the past 8 years, Ms. Mira Pekic Knezevic has shown that she can act as a deputy extremely well and quality, so we believe that in a further period of 8 years, she will equally exercise her duty as fair and conscientiously. As for the deputy, the proposal for Deputy Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities concerns only what I must note that Mr. Dario Jurisic has all the qualifications needed to act as deputy attorney. What is extremely important is that Mr. Jurisic is the Master of Law and you know for yourself that the right people with disabilities are something that is extremely important, therefore here are colleagues of the Committee on Health and Social Policy who have pointed out these conventions, so these CDs that you have today on benches and on these proposals delivered by the UN Committee of the Republic of Croatia. So, Mr. Jurisic, as a lawyer, will have an extremely busy job at the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities. That he will succeed in doing this to me personally and I believe he gives it to everyone and that he has already participated in making rules that are related to persons with disabilities, that he is a member of the Committee for Persons with Disabilities and I will not now list all his qualifications since the Ombudsman explained it very closely. I would also like to say about these recommendations that you have all received on benches today, and by which both the deputy and the deputy deputy, together with the attorney, will work very hard to express a great deal of satisfaction at this time that all these recommendations are already included in the development of a new strategy for equalising opportunities for people with disabilities. A new strategy will be adopted soon. On this occasion, I would like to really thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Registrar Ms. Nadi Murganic for giving another opportunity to persons with disabilities, the community of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the Ombudsman to really review the strategy in detail. And if we think that something in that strategy is not good to fix and that's when the strategy goes to the adoption. At this point, we are less interested in whether the strategy will be adopted a month sooner or later, but it is extremely important that all recommendations of the UN Committee on Persons with Disabilities be included in the Convention. I believe that it will also be given this extremely important document we all work together and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already shown and provided people with an extraordinary partnership in the first days of their work. I believe that all persons with disabilities will accept this, and as far as the Ombudsman's proposal for persons with disabilities is concerned, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24037	Thank you. The replica was reported by Agent Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24038	Your Honor, this is an apology for the vote, but you'll understand. I didn't answer for the replica, but here's to point out in a way that's urgent and urgent. Mrs. Ana Slonjšak knows very well, here we were just talking here. Namely, Mr Ante Raos is the president of the Association of Disabilities Networks Dalmatia has launched one action for 8 months or a year and more thanks to the EU fund, which is the recycling of hotel small soaps. That's what he was doing in the town of Solin because we found some kind of space and paid the rent. However, if we don't do something right now in this area, it's going to run out of space, and it's a shame that a valuable project will fail, because it's simply a local community itself, and not how much effort he's put into it that he can in any way finance it himself. Well, here's the D.A.'s on it, and I know it's not a topic. It's not an opportunity. [[Adversity President: Representative Boban.]] Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24039	It's all right. You apologized and said in advance that it wouldn't be. And because of the sensitivity of the subject I've released, but I'd like to ask you to really refrain in this way from the replica if you have something special to say to the D.A. or if you have something to do with the subject, then please report to the individual debate. But here's what I see is that the MP raised her response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24040	Thank you. Very short. I highly appreciate the work of all persons with disabilities if any person with disabilities has any problem can contact the Ombudsman for people with disabilities and any problem will be resolved in the Republic of Croatia and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24041	Representative Zeljko Reiner responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24042	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Lukačić, the esteemed attorney. You mentioned in your presentation, of course, the problem that the Ombudsman herself can hardly do all the work and that it is good to choose her deputies and, of course, we all agree. And reminded of a problem that came up a while ago when we didn't have a elected attorney. Since political amnesia is an endemic disease in Croats, then I just want to remind you why it happened. So it was then proposed at the Parliament's Presidency to hold one session after the government's disbandation, which would have two points of common interest, which should not and should not be politicised, which was, therefore, ratification of Montenegro's NATO entry, of interest to Croatia. And secondly, the attorney general's choice. Unfortunately, the SDP club absolutely rejected it, and that's why we haven't had a lawyer, unfortunately for quite a long time, which was not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24043	Thank you, Agent Reiner. Representative Lukačić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24044	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for reminding you of that moment. I just want to say that at a time when the D.A. wasn't appointed her job they said I'd almost perfected her deputies at the time. And at no point did the office question. It didn't happen to the deputies that the term of office ended without the attorney's appointment. So, this Croatian Parliament, this convocation of this House of Highs, has appointed the Ombudsman. And I must also say that by any chance nothing would happen again, because all the hardworking people working at the Attorney's Office would still be doing their job and the government would appoint a commissioner until a new election and the office would normally do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24045	Thank you, Representative Lukacic. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24046	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Attorney, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before I start my debate, I have to react again to what my esteemed colleague Reiner said because he keeps repeating it, I guess, at the back of those statements from his colleague Hebrang who says he never lies, just sometimes tells the truth. So it's incorrect that the lawyer's election was delayed because of the SDP club. He was late because all those who needed to make the necessary advances in order to get to the agenda did not do so and therefore all deadlines were extended. Madam Attorney-General, I'm glad you finally have elected deputies. I wish you a lot of success in your work. I want to thank you and all your associates for everything you do to improve the position of persons with disabilities, and I want to say that we Parliamentarians have to use every one of your arrivals in the Croatian Parliament building to tell us how much support you have on our part, because in fact your success in the work depends to a good extent on how much support MPs will have and in the adoption of quality laws stemming from all those obligations related to us and with this convention whose 10th anniversary we marked yesterday when we heard in particular how important it is to focus on all the problems, to raise awareness of the public about the problems of persons with disabilities, but to offer solutions. So if we're just talking about problems, we're not offering quality solutions, then it's all for nothing. There was especially talk yesterday about education, about health, about the right to work, so I'm going to quote the part about education because I know how much you're dealing with this problem and how much you want to provide people with disabilities with proper education. Therefore, it is recommended that this UN committee follow the implementation of the Convention to "state the signatories take direct steps to ensure that all persons with disabilities have access to inclusive, primary, secondary and tertiary education, and to ensure reasonable adaptation for them within regular education. Furthermore, it is recommended to adopt the principle that exclusive and separate education is discriminatory. It is recommended that teachers and extensions, as well as all other experts, be provided with education on inclusive education, and that all facilities of secondary education be accessible to persons with disabilities." So this short quote also speaks to what extent we should condemn today in the Croatian Parliament the shameful statement by Secretary of State Glunčić, who accused national minorities and children with special needs for the bad results of the PISA test. It is such a discriminatory, unprofessional, unrecognizable and embarrassing statement that we today must condemn it in the Croatian Parliament. Here's what happened yesterday on this round table. So Croatia needs to focus on a new curricula for all children in Croatia to get a better education. The argumentation of Mr. Gluncic's State Secretary for the poor achievement of our students on PISA tests other than it is offensive, concerns precisely because the responsibility of the now-dated system that is crying for reform is relatively undivided by both the profession and the citizens of this country's undivided attitude. Such a statement shifts responsibility for the failure of the system to children who are actually its victims. Students with developmental difficulties should be part of a general education system that will allow them and their other children to learn better and learn better. The attitude expressed in Mr Gluncic's statement calls into question his focus on changes, which certainly raises the question of his position's justification, and from this place today I ask that Mr Gluncic, along with his boss, resign the plagiarist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24047	Representative Jovanovic... warn me I would ask you to stick to the topic, even if it is in an individual debate. And I won't warn again. I'll just take the word away. The first to reply was the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24048	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Jovanovic, of course, I do not intend to comment on your rudeness, which you actually called me a liar or a liar. If you do not know then choose to take a look at the minutes of the Croatian Parliament Presidency where I have suggested that this session be convened from those two points and that they are indisputable and that we can all agree on such a matter, on the matter of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, cannot, should not and should not be politicised and that we can all agree on that other point. If you don't even trust the transcript because maybe it's part of the conspiracy at all, then you can ask your party party colleague, the distinguished Vice President Opačić is here and she knows that I asked for such a session and she knows that SDP refused to hold such a session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24049	Thank you, Agent Reiner. Representative Jovanovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24050	My friend Reiner, I don't argue with that at all. I know you suggested it, but it wasn't supposed to happen at all that pre-work was done before and that the object didn't stand in someone's drawer for three months. That's the problem, dear academic, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Rainer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24051	Thank you. Representative Lukačić responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24052	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Jovanovic, you've perfectly passed on here what happened at the the thematic session yesterday. It seems to me that you have potentiated education and indeed it is, education is one of the most important if not the most important segments. Persons with disabilities must be educated so that they can be quality and employed. We just need to take this opportunity to express our regret that you have had the opportunity to do so, education as well as quality. You were the minister, and at the time you were the minister, the convention was in effect at the same time. And then we could take big steps, but unfortunately we didn't. So this government is going to have a lot of work to do, but I'm glad we're going at a fast pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24053	Representative Jovanovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24054	Dear Mrs Lukacic, obviously you are not well aware of what was done in the mandate in which I was led by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports when through a series of decisions, projects increased the availability of education to all persons with disabilities in Croatia about which there are written documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24055	Thank you. Representative Ana Comparić Devčić, responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24056	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Jovanovic, I just want to back up what you brought out in your replica, and it's about choosing a lawyer for people with disabilities. So according to Article 22. The government is due within a month of the end of the term of office to propose a new prosecutor, and the deadline was 30.6. A public call was issued on 1.4.2016. seven candidates were reported, three interviews were conducted with three persons on 24.5.2016. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth sent an opinion to the government, and that's where the story actually stopped. So that the government then did its job as it should have done we wouldn't have come to that vacuum that we came to where we were, among other things, this High House was discussing the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities for 2015, and that there wasn't a deadline for an existing attorney and she was sitting there behind the pillar if we all remembered well, and we're here in this high house, regardless of what the SDP Club warned us not to do, we had a debate. Just so you know what procedure it was and that today in this high house we're not telling the truth that the SDP is guilty that we didn't have a lawyer at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24057	Representative Jovanovic came in for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24058	Here, thank you, colleague Comparico Devcic. I hope that we have resolved this dilemma that the SDP is not guilty and that, colleague Reiner, that we will no longer look back at it but turn to the future as someone has said and help our attorney and her deputies to make the rights of the person with disabilities come true as best possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24059	Representative Miranda Mrsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24060	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jovanovic, in your debate, you have touched on one question which everyone in the Republic of Croatia is asking these days, whether ignorance is an excuse for discrimination. Secretary of State Gluncic is in his debate...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24061	I'd like to beg...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24062	That's the thing, Mr. President, you could have taken the Grmoji word when he muddled a man who wasn't there. Let me finish my replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24063	I'm sorry. Then Mr. Grumoja took a break and has the right to announce and speak at the stop. I would ask you, no matter what I let go, and I think I've given sufficient freedom to the person who volunteered for the individual debate that we don't have to waste time warning you now and then answer the line again for the same thing that's not about the subject today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24064	... /Intruder Mrssic: It's about the topic, Mr. President. /...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24065	It's not about the subject, so you can, I'm sorry, so feel free to take a break and spend five minutes on it, but I'd like to ask you to really spend this on the subject right now. After this point, feel free to take a break and speak again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24066	Mr. President, as a parliamentary representative, I have the right to a replica and you cannot take away my replica. This is about the subject we're talking about. An application was filed to the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities where Mr. Gluncic was wrong about the Law on Discrimination, therefore.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24067	I understand, you're talking about the field, and I'm going to read you today's topic: Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a deputy and deputy attorney for disabled persons. This is the point of today's agenda I ask you to stick to this topic and immediately after this topic if you want to talk about this new topic take a break, it will be approved. [[Intruder Mrssic: That is correct.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24068	Mr. President, you have nothing to say to me about what I'm going to do as a parliamentary representative. So, I have a real replica. In addition, the attorney general's application for persons with disabilities Mr. Glunčić is in the D.A.'s office and therefore have...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24069	Representative Mrsic, you have no right to speak. I'm taking away that part of your replica now. I give you a warning. You don't have to talk about it. I tried to warn you in a nice way. In this part, we'll stick to the subject. Advocate General Anka Slunjšak has the right to the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24070	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear deputies and MPs, I thank you for the debate, and I believe that my future deputies will indeed carry out their duties as well as the former deputies, if not better, but in this they will not be able to carry out anything if you, as Parliamentarians and MPs, do not do everything in your positions both in the Assembly and in your other bodies where it is our responsibility to make legislation really more quality and better, and in this way support us not as an office but persons with disabilities who are citizens of equal order in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24071	I'd like to thank the D.A.'s attorney. There's only one thing I'd like to warn you before we go to the next point, because this is the final debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. I'd really like to ask. I think these topics that are sensitive are very important to our society. We shouldn't be exploiting for other needs and bickering. I think it's better to focus on the subject and warn through the break and any other mechanisms you have available. Thank you, Agent Panenic. Dear MPs and MPs are moving on to the vote on the debated points. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum, and that we can make a valid decision. The first item is the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Deputy Advocate-General for Persons with Disabilities. He's a lawyer for people with disabilities. The debate is closed. First, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision to appoint Dari Jurisic as Deputy Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, with 112 votes for, 1 abstention and no vote against, we have reached a decision to appoint a deputy attorney for disabled persons. Secondly, I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision to appoint Mira Pekeč Knezevic, Deputy Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously, with 116 votes, we have reached a decision to appoint the Deputy Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. This Regulation shall enter The Attorney General's Law on Persons with Disabilities has been laid down to be the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and her deputies before taking office to swear before the Croatian Parliament. After reading the text of the oath, the Deputy Vice-President and the Deputy Attorney-General shall pronounce the word ‘I swear’. The text of the oath reads: I swear that in my work I will abide by the Constitution and the law, respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will exercise my duty in a fair, honorable, conscientious and impartial way in the best interests of persons with disabilities. Daria Jurisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24073	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24074	Mira Pekech Princeevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24075	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24076	Congratulations to the Deputy Attorney General. And I want success in carrying out this honorable duty. [[Applause.]] The next item is: - Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2015, summary. The applicant is the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts on the basis of Article 7. Law on Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Due to the size of the report is not multiplied but is located on the Croatian Assembly website. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the report at the session. The applicant wishes to give an additional explanation. Academic Paul Rudan, chief secretary of the HAZU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24078	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam MPs, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. When it was April 29th in 1861, understanding the message of enlightenment that only the enlightened people were free people, Josip Juraj Strossmayer was in that loud sentence – Enlightenment to freedom! – asked members of the Croatian Parliament to establish an institution called Academia sciencarum et acium Slavorum medionarium. Since then, our academy has always developed scientific, artistic, cultural activities, takes care of Croatian cultural heritage and its affirmation in the world, publishes the results of scientific research and artistic creation, that the proposals and opinions for improving science and art in areas that are of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia. All of you members of the Croatian Parliament received a report on our activities in 2015 and asked by your distinguished colleague, dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Academywoman Željko Reiner, to be very brief and not as long as I was on the Assembly Committee, I will only tell you, ladies and gentlemen something in the conclusion of my report. The Croatian Academy has been one of the main institutions since the day of its establishment, and has been the temple of the culture of the Croatian people and of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the temple of science, art, rhetoric and creativity. Our Academy carried out the work of the Croatian Assembly in 1861, knowingly, seriously and responsibly, in 1861, which we clearly showed the results achieved during 2015. The Academy held 89 meetings of academic classes, 32 meetings of scientific councils, 34 committee sessions, commissions and editorials, 123 scientific meetings, symposiums, consultations and round tables, 3 assembly sessions, 23 formal sessions, awards and concerts, visits of 42 delegations and events from the field of interinstitutional and international cooperation, 38 work lectures, 50 book presentations, conferences for journalists, presentations of programs and film presentations, 30 exhibitions and 7 commemorations of the deceased members. This totals 471 events, even a few during the same day. During 2015, a total of 2066 publications were published thanks to the activities of the Croatian Academy and its members and the HAZU Foundation. We are rightly proud of our joint work, and thanks to the efforts of all the members of the academy, we opened our institution to the public at the time of the open door, our institution has dedicated more than 10,000 citizens. With our work we represented the highest criteria of quality and freedom of scientific and artistic creation, we encouraged and promoted scientific, cultural and economic progress, relying primarily on the recognition of the creative and moral authority of our members. That's why in 2015, as I like to say, our Academy used to cry out sometimes with a pure flame of intellectual and moral conscience. Thanks to this report, allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, to thank all the employees of the special class secretary, the members of the Presidency, the heads of scientific and museum-gallery units, the presidents of the scientific councils and committees, all the members of the academy, all the officials and tenants in the units and professional services, all the scientists and scientific money at the pawnage and activities, because we have only made it possible for our joint work in difficult financial conditions to carry out the numerous and diverse tasks that I have yet to mention in this report and are detailed in the book 119, so 119 years old, the Academy has printed its Chronicles. The book is distributed to all MPs in the Assembly and according to the open work of our most scientific and artistic institution in the Republic of Croatia is also available via the Academy's website. So you can get all the reports on the Academy's web pages. Based on the information provided in the 119th book of Letopis, I propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the HAZU in 2015 and the report on financial operations and the final account for 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24079	I thank the distinguished academic Paul Rudan for this explanation. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ for the debate, the Honorable colleague of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Zeljko Reiner, applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary General of the HAZU. Let me start by saying right away, that of course the HDZ Club will support this report and I believe that all other clubs will also support this report. But the reason I'm reporting is actually to point out some details about HAZU's work that may not be so widely known. The first is perception, so perception is not rarely simplified such that HAZU is a beautiful, unrelenting palace on Zrinjevac and that is HAZU. It's not HAZU. HAZU has 25 scientific research units, 12 places in Zagreb and 13 outside and in Bjelovar and in Križevci and Osijek and in Požega, Split, Varazdin and Pula. There are 7 museum gallery units except Strossmayer's gallery, of course, located in the palace of the Academy. There's a Arboratum in Trieste, there's a library, etc., etc. Therefore, the HAZU is far more than I say that one building that is usually our concept of the Academy. On the other hand, the Academy has experienced recent years, and I would say a new approach to the public because much more than what it was earlier opened to the public has opened up to the public in a variety of ways and more happily the media is monitoring the work of the Academy and getting to know the general public through what the Academy is doing. Once the Academy seemed a little distanced and it may have seemed that at the Academy, I once said in this place a few years ago that some think that the Academy is a set of such very wise and very well-deserved older people who now do not work very much. Here's proof, this fat book is proof that members of the academy are doing very well and that they are still very much publicizing, they published a large number of publications, 2728 scientific papers from various fields of socio-humanist, natural, technical to bio-medical. Of course, they published a large number of books, and as the secretary general said literally every day, and some days and a half of what is artistic, which is scientificly organized by the academy. There is something else important to note, the Academy has been able to suggest in its own time that it does not respond to some current dares to say political events and, first of all, I want to say the role of the Academy and it is not that it responds, it should and should not be subject to daily policy. It should consider strategic matters important for Croatian people and Croatian citizens at all and not in fact individual cases, individual things that happen every day, etc. And indeed she does so, and from various aspects. When you look at the proposals from the Academy for the Organization of State Administration in Croatia, for example, for the modernisation of rights in Croatia, for migration as a major problem that is current but not daily political, about the situation of Roma in Croatia, minorities etc. The academy organized round tables, publications, etc. However, it should be said that the academy has responded to events that may even be subject to the current political but which had wider implications for the Croatian people and Croatian citizens in general with their statements. These statements did not always receive adequate attention in the media, and meant I personally think a lot and could actually support a lot of why we advocated, and here in this place, for example, from a statement of inadmissibility of the first-degree verdict of the Hague court against General Ante Gotovina and Young Markac, who later proved himself to be just right and the Hague court did exactly what the Academy had scientifically and on the basis of evidence at that time. In addition, the academy, when entering the EU, then made a statement on the call for citizens to come to a referendum on Croatia's EU accession because it was an important event in Croatian history. When some events took place that could potentially endanger the survival of the Croatian people in other countries and then the academy advertised, so just to remind myself of a statement by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts about the Croatian identity of the Bunjevacs because you remember that these attempts were and each one is being revived so much that they try to convince themselves that there are Bunjeci and Croats in Srijem, Banat and Backo. However, there are also current statements concerning some things that are about to happen or are happening, for example, to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, under the International Criminal Tribunal for the former SFRY in the case of Prlic and others, where a very important segment that may have serious consequences is again being touched, we also discussed it yesterday in this High House for the Survival of Croatian People not only in the BIH but also in the Croatian state. Thus, the Academy referred to a series of events which they had and, let's say, the current character but not daily political character, and I think that this is the way it should continue to work, it should be a temple of science, culture and art that will unite everything that we have in science, culture and art, of course we have very high quality people and outside the academy but it has a limited number of members and unfortunately many who deserve to enter the academy are not at the academy, but it should continue to give strategic directions for the development of therefore generally Croatian culture, Croatian folk being, Croatian art and Croatian science. And so it's worked so far, I'm sure it'll work that way and from now on, and it shows exactly this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24081	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Zeljko Reiner, for this debate. The next meeting was held on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives by distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary General Rudan, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's hard to say something new, quality, essentially after the presentation of two academics. What I can say at first is that the SDP club will support this report. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts as a conscience of Croatian society, as a temple of culture, science and art as he spoke Strossmayer encourages and organises scientific work, advocates the application of the results achieved, develops artistic and cultural activities and takes care of Croatian cultural heritage and its affirmation in the world, publishes the results of scientific research and artistic creation, and gives suggestions and opinions to improve science and art in areas of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia. So, from the report that we all received from Letopis, which I hope we have at least shed, from what the academic Rudan said in the introduction and on behalf of the HDZ Club, it is clear that the Academy in the year to which this report was addressed in 2015 has fulfilled all its tasks which it has set before it. So I'm not going to repeat everything that's written, which is said. Maybe just a few important data. It should be reiterated that during 2015 the academy organised 471 events, which is indeed an impressive figure. Of all the events I would especially like to do today I would like to single out the event "The Night of the Book" and "The Night of the Museum" because these events were visited by more than 10,000 visitors, which only shows how important the project is, the project of open doors of the Academy. It is important to note that under the auspices of the Croatian Academy, preparations were started to mark the 450th anniversary of the Siget battle and the death of Nikola Šubić Zrinski. It is also important to point out that the academy published 266 publications. If we take 51 and with 5 working days, it means practically every working day to publish at least one publication thanks to the Academy of Science and Arts. I therefore think that we can really praise the work of the Academy, of all people gathered around the Academy, of everything they do and of the positive assessment of the efforts of the Academy to continuously promote the scientific, economic and cultural progress of the Republic of Croatia. What is particularly worthy of attention and what was said last year when we discussed in the report and the Committee on Education, which is a meeting organised in the Academy, so the first International Scientific Conference to deal with the position of Roma in Croatia titled "The position of Roma in the Republic of Croatia, language, culture and literature". So this is one event that should certainly be highlighted here in the Croatian Parliament today. I have already said that these open-door projects are certainly due to the current leadership of the academy, academics Kusic and his right-handed secretary Rudan as well as other members of the academy. Because the academy had really been closed down before, and infrequently what Academyman Reiner said was all about thinking that it was a beautiful building, not what happens not only in that building but throughout Croatia. I especially look forward to some new projects that are not in this report, but I believe we will talk about them next year, and perhaps in some way, here is my recommendation to the Academy of Rudan that some of this might happen in this assembly or we all go to the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, which is the Croatian Natural Economy project. So, I think it's a great project that started in 2013 and ended in 2017 where all natural resources of the Republic of Croatia were listed in one place. And I believe that this would be another way to get acquainted with the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Let's say for example the especially cheerful museum of medicine and pharmacies that I expect will be available to everyone. I especially want to commend the work of the Academy's institutions and not because I come from Rijeka, because I speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the youngest Institute, the Institute of Transplantation and Clinical Medicine and Molecular Medicine in Rijeka under the leadership of the Academy of Rukavina, who does everything that the Academy should actually serve. So, almost once a month he gathers students, doctors, businessmen and discusses some important issues concerning this area covered by this institution, but in fact all social topics in that part of Croatia. I will end up commending and thanks to the secretary-general and the academy for everything it does with a single sentence that if I'm not mistaken, and academic Rudan spoke last year, so that the academy is the flame of a moral intellectual conscience. I want that flame to be as big as possible, and I hope that the place at the academy will find some responsible other people who deserve the Nobel Prize with their rich relax. However, they have not yet found a place in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24083	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24084	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Kola Jovanovic, as you comment on the recent report by prominent scientist Josip Stjepandić to the Ethics Commission that you were in conflict of interest during the time you were Minister of Government when you published six scientific papers that were helped by Mr Rudan's present secretary, Mr Rudan, who knew very well about it, and he made it possible for you to publish these papers on alleged co-authorship. And I'm also interested in whether the President of the Science Foundation's sister was elected as well in your term as your mentor in the preparation of doctoral dissertation? Are these the reasons why you give such praises to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts or perhaps there are other motives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24085	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc. I would really ask you to stick to the topic of debate and do not descend to this level, but since I have given you the possibility of replication, the reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24086	Thank you, pal Bunjac. So all this stuff you said, I'm assessing it as one simple pamphlet of a frustrated Mr. Stepndic if I've heard you say it right. And as for my conflict of interest in the period when I was a minister, the competent authority, the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest, which did not initiate the procedure because it concluded that there was no basis for my conflict of interest. As for the papers I published, so here I am going to invite you to the American Nobel Prize, unfortunately I am nowhere near the Nobel Prize that he was during his time as State Secretary, which is, for example, in the rank of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, he was the Secretary of State for Energy, he published 50 ccs of papers. Well, I wish I was so successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24087	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply to the replica. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most esteemed colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24088	Thank you. I will try to be as brief as possible for the simple reason that we often witness the debates in this assembly, and it seems to me that this replica was the last one at the level of anthropological regression, that we are constantly going back to something that someone has done to get away from the topic of debate. We have a report in front of us, and it's that report based on the principles of progress and hope. So the exact opposite of all these regressions, especially anthropological regressions. The report on HAZU's work for 2015, this report has an unsecured information package in which we learn about the many activities of this institution, but at the same time it contains one hidden hermeneutical potential which could best best show the simplestness of the words of Secretary of the Academy Rudan who said this is the report on the activities of HAZU, but that the report is not the activity of the HAZU. So, through this distinction, we shouldn't go so easily into the manner of some kind of misunderstanding of reality is the reality that we face and the reality that this report has given us is really the reality of an extraordinary activity, and this activity is called the logoization of the world. The world is trying to make sense, and this sense of the world seems visible only by universal speech. The only universal speech in our cosmos is the speech of science and speech of art. HAZU Thanks to its scientific discourse, thanks to its demand for the legality of the mind anywhere or on the other hand, if this artistic genius is trying to esthetize this world of ours and thus make this space and this time valuable, that man finally comes to a new dimension, that there may not be a being that has been cut down and humiliated by various forces of regression rather than actually be a living being, that he may be a living being, and that we should try it even as long as this debate and debate on this report is seen as a being that has life potentials. In a report that is extremely significant, there is no such normative combination as to say who is the most responsible. The entire work of the HAZU is also monitored and the achievements achieved by this institution are seen as a result of the work and the activity of all employees. For the first time, we also meet with this unity that should be depicted by what is called human. HAZU we heard, we saw, we know that there are many internal organisational structures of class, committee, councils, museum units, libraries, arboretum, so all this is necessary. For what? For the sake of this universal value of scientific and universal value to be depicted in that particular possibility. This is exactly what the world needs, not a declarative possibility, but a concrete possibility. Our academics are this space to manifest a concrete possibility seen in as many as 471 events in 2015, and this is extremely commendable. So it's not an academy that's moved away from the world. It's an academy that lives in the world. The reason for this is quite simple. In order for someone to be a scientist, someone to be an artist should leave a pseudo-religious element, which is to save someone or ruin someone. It's kind of like us politicians to represent the pseudo-religious discourse that we want everything right now and now and that we want to see what our results are. And if we want everything right now and now, we often have to destroy it before. Science and art is worth a completely different legality. Someone's a scientist and someone's an artist if they accept what's traditional and continuity. Thanks to HAZU, this space, therefore in a linguistic and spatial sense, we have no opportunity for the national to get something Croatian into the continuity of this universal civilization logo, to continue and connect, to the scientific results and to this creativity of the artistic genius. If we want to observe this report again in this continuity, I would only remember Pythagoras, for example, which distinguishes the triple level, the level of occurrence, the level of what appears, the one to whom or what occurs. So if we're just looking at the phenomenon, we have this report. It's some kind of material and for people who spend their whole lives based on an intellectual savings model, they'll only settle for what they've felt. It's a phenomenon. Those who seek some depth, and so are our academics, they seek what appears in this phenomenon. And a magical world of science, law, art and creativity appears. And finally, to whom or to what this phenomenon appears, and apparently it can only appear to people who are animals or people who are sensitive to the discourse of science and the power of art. These are the shortest reasons why the MOST Club accepts this report, accepts it with joy and political human joy and thanks to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which prevents our action from being the work of the capitulants before the logo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24089	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Vučetić, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Davor Romic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24090	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you, dear academic. Mr. Vučetić, here's everything you've said so nicely about the academy that I fully join, but I would still like to say one very important sentence, and it is in a way and already shown in the words of Mr. Assembly Representative Mr. Jovanovic. In fact, we are witnessing a great work that the Academy has done, which is a Croatian natural wealth, where 46 scientists worked and published in one place, an inventory of all that we have in the Republic of Croatia. Here we also wanted to contribute to the future parliamentary committee and individual parliamentary committees have this treasure. So within our board are activities related to land, agricultural land, forests, forest land, water, and we have made a decision and we have already launched activities to organise a thematic session that is about to be dedicated to this segment. Therefore, despite the fact that the report is at this point a positive assessment from the Club of Representatives of the Most, I would like in some way that we will not stop at these activities. We know that the academy is extremely active, but the Parliament in this place must in some way contribute as an institution to the activities and connect them both, means both the Academy and the Parliament, in order to highlight all of our values that we have, and in our society and our country we have great values. Your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24091	I thank my esteemed colleague Romic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24092	I thank Professor Romic. This is exactly one example again of how these specific possibilities are created. In science and in the work of the academy there is never standing and there is a lot of perspective. And from that perspective, I also see the possibility that we can base on it and form hope. Certainly this Assembly as a legislative body and the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts as the most valuable thing we have from the field of this logic scientific and artistic, have also a certain task and this civilization, human. It consists of the shortest word: You must never stop!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24093	I thank you for your response to my distinguished colleague, Vučetic. We're moving on to individual debates. The first one came to the debate with a distinguished colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. He's not present. The following has appeared for an individual discussion by distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24094	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I volunteered for an individual debate, although most of it was all I wanted to say on behalf of the club, but this is really my personal attitude, and I'm talking about it because of the material that we've all been getting as parliamentary representatives in our boxes. Thus, through this material called Contributions for discussion in the entire curricular reform, it was signed by the President of the Scientific Council for Education and Education of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, academician Vladimir Paar. So, I must say, I regret that at all one such document that looks more like a pamphlet than a serious material was created in the University of Zagreb. It's about people who are well manipulated by a person who has been publicly lied, falsely represented, even writing plagiarists, and these plagiarists have been called up for a debate on curricula reform. So, I, colleagues and colleagues, must remind you that the strategy of education, science and technology adopted by the Croatian Parliament was created in the guidelines developed by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. So, wanting to start education in Croatia from a base that will be built by a body that is independent, supernatural, suprapolitical, this job is entrusted to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and based on these guidelines is a strategy of education, science and technology from which curricular reform has been created, a complete curricula reform, and one of the leaders of the constant attacks on both the strategy and the curricular reform is completely unfounded in the way of the pamphlet, the plagiar is Vladimir Paar. And for this reason, I am expressing disdain that we have received such material without any reason on the benches because it is a pamphlet that is not complete and which does not speak at all in a critical way how the academy normally works on one of the fundamental problems of Croatian society. So, independently, professionally, devoid of personal vanity, barrenness and plagiarism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24095	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for the debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24096	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Well, I must say, I am saddened by this finding by Mr. Jovanovic. I believe that Mr. Paar has contributed greatly to the critical review of the curricular reform itself and I have read a part of this book and the reviews of theirs, so Mr. Jovanovic, I think that, I think you need to be more open to criticism, for an open debate and not just for one brain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24097	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Marina Squiboli. I think you need to be more open to criticism, for an open debate, not just for one brain. I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Marina Squiboli, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24098	In this assembly, I also pointed out that this is my personal attitude, the attitude that comes from what I read from Mr. Paar's papers when it comes to the reform and everything he said that appeared in the competition, did not appear, from the material he had written, from the material that he had been doing in the debate in Serbia, so he plagiarized and as such unworthy of all that the HAZU of Days meant regardless of what he had previously done in his long and fruitful working life.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24099	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Vice-President of the Academy Council, Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, my colleague Jovanovic, first of all, I think it's inappropriate to talk to you again and talk about an academic who's not here yet or present that he can defend himself against the diphasmation, from the accusations, etc. What you said was fact-finding, of course we all accepted the strategy. But whether this and such curriculous reform, as it was imagined, is indeed the exact sequence of what we have accepted, is an open question and on this issue not only can they but must discuss as widely as possible people involved in education and education as possible. Of course, with some things, some people will agree, some won't agree. The Academy has again defined in its statement in 2015 what it thinks about implementing the Reform of Education, it has been included in this, but I think it is completely inappropriate to criticise different opinions from those you may have. Well, just in exchange of opinions, it is likely that what is best and most appropriate for the Croatian school system, whether high school, high school, or elementary school, will be crystallized. I don't see the need for one exclusion and for the rejection of any different thinking so she was as critical as this here that you refer to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24101	I thank my esteemed colleague Reiner for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24102	Well, my colleague Reiner, I agree with you, so we need different opinions to get the most quality solution out of these different opinions. For this reason, on several occasions through the Institute of Representative Affairs written through the last Government of Mr. Oreshkovic, I asked former Minister Sustar when we will finally get to see what happened through the Commission to monitor the implementation of the Education, Science and Technology Development Strategy. All this has been done, but there has never been an assembly bench since a simple project has been stopped. Unfortunately, the curricula reform is dead, as I said several times, I will repeat it today, and the one who strongly advocated it was just an academic pair.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24103	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24104	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Millian Brkic. Well, here's the theme today, HAZU. I thought I'd skip this subject, but while I was sitting here in the assembly benches, I received a message from a young man who asked me when there would be a debate in the House on how to get a job in this country, how to have a normal salary and how to stop moving young people out of the country. I am interested in how many papers in HAZU are made on how to solve the problem of youth unemployment, how to solve the problem of low wages or how to stop the escape of young people from the country. Ladies and gentlemen, how many such works has HAZU done? I'm afraid of none. And why is that? Because he doesn't deal with the central issues of our society. They're silent, academics are silent, they've been silent for 25 years on all this evil that's been happening to our country and they should yell first because unlike the people I can say I didn't know and who have an excuse even though ignorance isn't an excuse but at least I can get away with it I didn't know. What can the Academy say in its defense? Can he say, we don't see, we don't know that young people leave this country every day, we don't know that young people can't get to work? Then why don't they say, why don't they just say, "Let's be honest and let them say we don't care about that, that's not the problem with us." They're already silent. How long has it been, ladies and gentlemen? And why? To what end? The politics of these academics is embarrassing. They decided to go down a hairline to the regime, they got certain material rights, big pensions, and they don't care about the fate of our people. When did you hear that the Academy of Science and Art warned about the problem of digging through containers, of people digging through garbage? Well, she doesn't think it's a problem. Did you hear that they were talking about the problem of people freezing in front of soup kitchens? No, I don't. The academy doesn't care. Have you ever heard the Academy of Science and Arts say look at the problem of 360 thousand blocked citizens who are blocked at 60 billion kuna that's the problem? No, the academy doesn't think it's a problem, nor does it feel like it's a scientific approach. Why not, what's the explanation? Why don't we discuss it, why, say, some of the respected academics wouldn't be dealing with this kind of scientific work? What causes us to have low wages in Croatia? It's a problem for our citizens. What are the causes of mass blockades in the country that academics don't care? So I'm asking ladies and gentlemen what do you want to know at the Academy of Science and Art? What do you do, what do you get paid for? To write about the amphibians? Say gentlemen please from HAZU I appeal to you to tell the Croatian public the problems that bother Croatian society we are not interested in, that is not our concern. Say it openly because Croatian society pays you, the Croatian society pays you ladies and gentlemen. That you wouldn't care about him. Ladies and gentlemen, turn your brain on but don't turn it on just for yourself and your interests. What good is society if you use it for yourself? You who have the intelligence, who have the happiness of having people who don't have it, have people who don't have it, you must use it for the sake of Croatian society. So there are signs, you are not only the Academy of Science and Arts, but the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, so you should use your intellect for the benefit of Croatian society and how do you use it, when you last raised your voice for anything? What do you do, the light? What topics? People in Croatia have existential problems, we have a demographic breakdown, we have a demographic breakdown in terms of what has fallen, so Natalie is a disaster, hundreds of thousands of people are coming out of the country, we have a present, universal mortalization of society. Go to Osijek, I was there the other day I saw an empty city, I saw empty bars, I was in Mall in Osijek ladies and gentlemen every other place was empty. Osijek will soon look like a ghost town. Is that anyone interested in your gentlemen's academy? How many papers were made on the topic of mass eviction from the country and how many solutions did you propose to stop it? None, I believe neither. If I'm wrong please correct me, give me a table I'll read it if you don't want 150 other colleagues, I'll read it myself. I wonder what kind of solution you're offering. I wonder how this problem can be perceived, what are its causes? If you don't talk about it or you can't talk about it publicly, I'll talk about it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, other people can't do your job. Other people can't do what your job is. Understand that society is a mechanism in which each member of society plays a social role. I have my part, you from the Academy of Science and Arts have yours. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you remind me of the people of Jesus' day who lived on the high leg of the so-called so-called. Pharisees of scribes. They had their knowledge they kept to themselves, and they used it only for their own benefit and the people fell apart around them. Jesus shamed them all, and so will you be ashamed in front of the judgment of our people who, instead of the people who should worry about his future in you, actually see the most common parasites, parasites who live on the high foot of money while they fail, while they fail. How many of you ladies and gentlemen from the Academy of Science and Arts have made scientific papers on credit default in a single credit system with a central bank as a currency exchange office and where does this lead? Do you even see credit repayment as a social problem? No, you don't care at all. The government's borrowing next year for 35 billion kunas that you care about, so that's not my problem. So whose problem is that, then? You think Marica cares about that? I watched him there, he, it's one member of the bureaucrat, he's acting as an employee of some firm, he has no consciousness at all or national or any other about the future of his people, his country. He doesn't care at all. He's got an official driver, an official car, a high salary, which he cares about. Ladies and gentlemen of the academy, there's little time left for society to wake up from his disappearance from this space. I ask you to do something about it and as a responsible person, or as a conscientious individual who respects and any possible problems, unlike you who persistently ignore them, I have no need to raise my hand and say I accept this report, I accept your work because I do not accept it, and believe me that even most of the Croatian people do not accept it, but you will see when the vote is the same as you do, you are the same for whose interest you work, the same for which your work is appropriate, or you are reluctant to raise your hand for you. The report will be accepted. But the public doesn't accept your work. The public is disappointed by your silence, ignoring and closing their eyes in front of obvious problems. How many lines have you done on the subject of the actions of citizens who are left without anything? None, you don't care at all. You live in a parallel universe, ladies and gentlemen, at the academy there. Every good thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24105	I thank the esteemed John Pernar for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first came to the replica, the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24106	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Pernar, here we have been discussing the Immunological Institute for the past few weeks. I think there's one at the Academy of Immunology. We are getting information that there are still conditions in the Immunological Institute to make top blood preparations from the blood of Croatian citizens, and here is information that we are getting these days to give blood preparations produced in Serbia at the hospital in Vinogradska. It's supposed to be a chocolate problem, but there's no blood. However, blood preparations are also sold from Korea, and there is information that some blood products come all the way from Africa. It's a matter of course which will be as cheap as possible. I don't know, I'd also like to be answered by someone from the academy, there are indications that the number of HIV and hepatitis patients in Croatia is increasing. Is it because of the bad blood products that we import, and we should make them ourselves, or is it perhaps some trend that generally exists in Europe? So we have the world's fame, the tradition we've acquired in history, and what we do to preserve that glory and to build on it something smart further. The issue of bankruptcy of the Immunological Institute is a matter of day, and we have not noticed that it is taking any concrete step to change the situation in this one of Croatia's most valuable institutions in any way after years of agony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24107	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for his replica. Replica reply, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24108	Mr. Bunjac, I've been listening to your question. And I actually know that this problem that you've been talking about is the problem of everyone disappearing, so to speak, developed production of our academy is not at all interested. But here's an example that might interest you. The Croatian Employment Service obtains office chairs and pays them 4000 kn per piece. Keep an eye on the terms of the competition. We need a star aluminium pedestal, synchronic adjustment, antishock system lumbar support. There you go, Mr. Bunjac. That's the kind of thing that tortures people at the Employment Service. Such things, and sees the whole public that this is all a farce, that it is actually robbing the state and the people and ultimately that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts about all the social relevant problems about universal corruption is silent. Until when? To what end? Why do young people have to leave this country? Did that phenomenon ever go to study there? You've got heads, get on the cup, get as many of you out there, round the table. You're in pain, John. Yours doesn't care at all. And Mr. Bunjac, you need to shout out loud, you have 30 seconds to sign up for the debate. I think it's too late. But I think all 151 MPs here should shout at them in one voice and ask people what you're doing there or not doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24109	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24110	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Pernar. It's lucky yours doesn't take yours seriously anymore. However, as much as no one takes you seriously, you continue to try to overdo this and still cause reactions and most of all succeed. I here, you see a fundamental ignorance of the subject you're talking about, which is actually in more or less every debate obviously. But you need to speak on all topics, so you're talking about this topic. The main tasks of the Academy are otherwise laid down in Article 3(3). The law on HZZU and the Academy encourages and organises scientific work, advocates the application of the results achieved, develops artistic and cultural activities, takes care of Croatian cultural heritage, its affirmation in the world, publishes the results of scientific research and artistic creation, gives suggestions and opinions on improving science and art in areas of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia. In other words, what you're saying is it's as if you're telling the water management that it's a big TV subscription, as if you're telling some clerk in the Zagreb Holding that the American space program is wrong. So when you talk about the subject try to get in a little bit, look at the report. And I'll tell you again in the end, it's your luck that no one takes you seriously, and now you try to get attention again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24111	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24112	Well, dear sir, I can see that you think of these academics as intended good, like a washing machine that only serves laundry and has no other role. I'm trying to explain to you that the role of intellectuals, people who have a higher IQ, who are smarter than the rest of society, and probably who are gathered at the academy, that, that there is, so-called. their social responsibility. Well, it doesn't matter what's not necessary in their work. Well, you'd have to deal with it. Why? Because there's not a single institution that deals with it and nobody cares. Nobody cares, sir. Why? Because the power you represent doesn't care, because the power you represent has led to it. HDZ is the one who changed the National Bank Act in '94. And turned into a currency exchange. It is HDZ who has spent the privatisation of the social property that belonged to the people, but you have taught this property to the people close to you. You've destitute society, you've disproved it, you've brought it into a state of debt slavery, and then you've got the shame of trying to do something to me, which I point out unlike you at least to a problem, you're giving it to me, and you're doing whatever you don't know, we're smarter than you are. Yes, sir, you're smarter for your own pocket, but unfortunately for society, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24113	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24114	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, I'd be in a lot of things that you've said with you. So we know that our academics have been verticalizing society, that vertical that only deals with culture, deals with science, and doesn't see the truth of this people these 25 years, at least I haven't read anywhere, that especially you've gotten up and said that people are wrong. This people has been led to one problem, one misery, and you enjoy your offices beautifully sitting, writing and not betraying in public and not criticising any hair, both the other and the third. You should do it often, you're the people who have one status that respects you, I believe you would believe you, but you don't have that need. It's better to sit and keep quiet than to go out and say things if someone didn't like it. I think you've fallen asleep, that you should wake up and start criticizing all the authorities and try to bring this country some kind of good. As far as I know, some academics of excellent Croatian who are out there, you didn't want to take them into the Academic Community either, so I wonder whether you need the competition outside or whether you're enough yourself. I think we should go public and start criticizing everything that's wrong in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24115	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24116	Thank you, fellow Misic. Well, yes, you have pointed out in your own words what the HDZ gentleman is trying to say is visible only to me. However, the whole society sees it, except for the HDZ gentlemen whose policies are good. It's good, it suits them, I won't tell them what's good. And the people? The people are going down, and they're going down. Mr. from the Academy of Science and Arts, take a walk in the city, look at the number of beggars on the street, look at the number of people who dig through the trash and ask yourself if this problem is a social problem, or if it's an individual's problem. If it's a social problem, why don't you process it on the scientific side because sociology is also like science about society science? But you don't care. You came here with these papers, and what good do we have from your papers, and what use do we have from your science? Your science is pseudo science, it's like science but it's not. Why? Because he doesn't deal with crucial issues. You are a decorative office, cultural models and quasi intellectuals because real intellectuals would tell the truth about the topics that are important to our society today, and they would not only deal with matters or peripheral issues that have no concrete application and of which society has no benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24117	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply to the replica. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas. On behalf of the applicant, the closing statement shall be made by the Secretary-General of the HAZU, the Honorable Academyman Paul Rudan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24118	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Republic of Croatia. I heard very interesting here, I have to admit the uninteresting last debate, so I will say what was nice last, and that is from the academics Reiner, Professor Jovanovic, the esteemed colleague Vučetic and also Jovanovic. But first, I'm going to look back at what some of them rightly said might not be worth paying attention to. But I'm gonna pay attention to being a doctor who finished medicine back in 1966 and being an anthropologist so I understand everything that many people here have been saying. What is very interesting is that the question of our Jesus Christ and the Pharisee was raised, so I would have to tell the young gentleman here, that Jesus Christ had spoken a sentence that said: “Absolute yourselves lawyers because you took away knowledge of the people, those who wanted to enter into the Paradise of knowledge, you threatened, and you yourself will never enter into it. ” Why did I say that? Because I see that man doesn't have enough knowledge and now I would explain to him how the academy talks about many things, I'm going to tell him that 18 scientific councils work at the academy. These scientific councils include not only members of the HAZU regular, correspondence or co-workers, but experts from a wide range of different subjects. These are the Scientific Council for Remote Research, the Scientific Council for Oil and Gas, the Scientific Council for Transport, the Scientific Council for Maritime Affairs and the Croatian Economy, the Scientific Council for Scientific Research of the Adriatic, the Scientific Council for Technological Development, the Scientific Council for Peace and Human Rights, the Scientific Council for State Administration, the Justice and Rule of Law, the Scientific Council for Construction, Reconstruction and Development, the Scientific Council for Nature Protection, the Scientific Council for Anthropology Research, the Scientific Council for the Research of Croatian Research, the Scientific Council for the Research, the Scientific Council for the Theatre, the Scientific Council for the Theatre, the Film and the Science Society, the 17th Scientific Society, the Scientific Council for the Research, the Scientific Council for the Research, the Scientific Research, the Research and the Research, the Scientific Council for the Research of the Croatian Research, the Research, the Research, the Scientific Council for the Research, the Research, the Scientific Council for the Theatre and Technology, the Digital Society, the 17th and the Digital Society, the Science and the Science Society, the Digitality of Technology. The Scientific Council for Education and Education. I'm sorry that earlier was founded because then this book that was printed by the university paper, and it's a university edition, not from the academy, might be something different if we had taken it here. We have different people at the academy and these people suggest different things. Some people, for example. from the Academy, two, propose and propose to Mrs. Presidents of the Republic to introduce a greeting to the Croatian Army: for the House ready! And from Mrs. President's office, they answered perfectly: "It is unserious and at the border of provocation." I'd say it's really possibly a provocation because the man who suggested it was born in 1948 in the Socialist Republic of Montenegro. He finished his studies at the University of Belgrade in 1975, completed his master's degree in science at the University of Belgrade in 1977, achieved the degree of doctorate at the University of Belgrade in 1982 and then comes to us here and suggests such things. The other who had also done so was a member of the Alliance of Communists and a secretary at the Faculty of Natural History-Mathematics. As a doctor, I understand colleagues, which means identifying with an aggressor, and that some people are really scared of things. But we must not be afraid of certain things because the Academy was still in 1997 when a member of the class of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts was the most magnificent man in these premises of academics Franjo Tudjman. On the proposal of this class, where he was academician Franjo Tudjman, the book Branko Dubravica "The Army of Anti-fascist Croatia" won the Croatian Academy Award. Therefore, we colleagues have said enough about certain things. Now, given my ignorance, I must admit that a young colleague surprised me very much because I see he has no idea. Over several years, the Academy has published a publishing series called "Modernisation of Rights". And I will now read to you the titles of these books: "The Strategy for the Reform of the Judicial System", "The Reform of the Croatian State Administration", "The National Programme for Anti-Corruption of Corruption", "The Reform of Administrative Judiciary and Administrative Procedures", "The Reform of Legal Education", "Modernisation of Croatian Real Rights", "The Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union", "The Limit of sovereignty and affirmation of Statehood", "Citizenial Responsibility in Medicine", "The Croatian State and Administration of State and Perspectives", "The Croatian Administrative Court of Justice of the Lat and the Delegation of Ferent", "The New Croatian Local and Regional Self-Government", "The 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia", "The Law of the Republic of Croatia", "The Law of the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Croatia", "The European Union, the Republic of Foreign Affairs and the Home of Croatia's Law and Fundamentality of Croatia". I would ask this young gentleman representative in the Croatian Parliament, I see that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have chosen him, therefore have confidence in his intellectual abilities, and I am sure that since all these books are in the library of the Croatian Parliament, he will immediately, I see that he has fled, after this meeting and this session will go to the library of the Croatian Parliament, ask that these 30 books give him and that he will study them. I believe they'll learn, learn, learn and just learn because that's the kind of time I still see, and then come with some other results. I think he asked some questions that made me sad. I was saddened by the fact that I saw people sitting in the Croatian Parliament who don't even know what the academy is. When my son, son, was a little boy and asked me, "Dad, what is an academy?" I said, Son, my son, come with me. I took the boy by the hand and took him to two institutions, to a modern gallery on the corner of Hebrang's street, and took him to the palace, to the temple of the culture of the Croatian people and to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I showed him and said to him: "Sinčić, look, here is the tablet of the Croatian cross sheet. It's a Garden Tablet. Queen Elizabeth, when she came to the academy, was freaked out, she said, "Well, that's a hundred years before Magna Carta. Right, that's a hundred years before Magna Carta. Because we Croats and we who live in these areas are the followers of the Croatian medieval tropics of our verb, our Croatian Cyrillics or Bosnians and our Latin letters. And thanks to both the verbs and the Croatian Cyrillic and Latin, thanks to Gutenberg's galaxy we expanded our language, our three languages, our Croatian language, the Chakavian, the Cacaucan and the Gutenberg galaxy. We know what the written word is. And a gentleman should take these books and learn, learn, and just learn. On the other hand, blocked accounts and everything else, colleagues write it all there. Let the gentlemen who don't know much about it or know very little to take and learn. As for my colleague Ivica Music from the outside, and he's not there either, the man escaped, what can I do, it's a shame they don't listen to a few times and relatively good words from a few older members of the academy because there are now a lot of young members in the academy. He speaks from outside scientists. Which scientists on the outside? So my nephew Igor Rudan, a professor of global health at the University of Edinburgh, is a member of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, elected 5, 6 months ago as the only one after Ruđer Boskovic's Croat. And he never writes in the papers that he wants to be a member of the HAZU because our member can only be a man who lives and is constantly employed here. All those who invent different medicines, so we'll live for 154 years, etc., they were all once magnificent scientists and now their time has passed. But they're members of the country they live in, which is, for example, France and members of the French Academy of Science, 350 years old. We poor abandoned people, our Academy is only 155 years old. So, where do they push us from outside? Why didn't they just stay here and work here? There are a lot of people here who work and deserve to be members of our Academy. If you work outside, let them reward you. And this man that Mr. Misic says is big, etc., so he's even chosen as a correspondence member of our Academy according to this is a member of the Academy. So it doesn't take colleagues to argue at all. Here I am going to finish now, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. I'd just like to thank you very much, and thank you very much, Mr. Honorable fellow academic Rainer, who fantastically depicted what I had burdened you terribly with during that committee, it took over an hour, so I was very brief here. Kola Jovanovic, thank you very much because you have really pointed out many great things that our Academy, HAZU does and you have drawn attention to Croatian natural resources. We will certainly be able to present it to everyone and even to all members of the Croatian Parliament. I'd have to admit, as an anthropologist, I was hit terribly, terribly, says anthropological regression when someone here was talking, hit me in the heart, and I just got chilly. I got a little chilly about what he said about the Academy, our Academy living in a world in a universal, civilized human space, and thank you for that. My colleague Branimir Bunjac, what can I tell you? I have to tell you that this has been, very, very sad, I'm going to say that I don't use anything else you've said in terms of quote and publication. I see you don't know what you're talking about. Mr. Steven Chu, who was otherwise the winner of the 2007 Nobel Prize, was the minister of energy in the U.S. government. And that moment when he was the Minister of Energy in the U.S.A., he published over 40 scientific papers in various magazines. I am sorry that our Mr. Professor Jovanovic, our former minister, did not also publish 40 scientific papers, 10 would immediately announce them to him in the journal Collegium Anthropology because everything he did and what he publishes is excellent. Therefore, colleagues of Bunjac, be careful what, the information you use, you bring out and what you are trying to reduce what HAZU means to this people, to all the citizens of the Republic, and I am proud especially of the Roma in the Republic of Croatia because we are the first Academy in the world where and with our beautiful anthem Our beautiful homeland was also played by an anthem of the Roma people. So be proud of your Academy and let's not come here with any of these, I'm sorry to say, inappropriate comments. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for everything and don't worry, the Academy will continue to carry out the task Strossmayer has set up for the establishment of an institution to really bring an abandoned people in for what is needed because there is no freedom without the enlightened people. That's why curriculous reform is extremely important and then people aren't going to get out of this country. And as for all those legal issues, etc. Let the fellow who asked the question take the list upstairs right now, take those books and read them over the holidays. I wish you on behalf of all the members of the HAZU all the best. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24119	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24120	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Rudan, I'm not impressed with your exposure. You claim to have knowledge and so many academys in the world have knowledge why these accelerations haven't prevented all the horrors of this world that we've seen lately, why haven't they prevented genocide in many countries, why haven't they stopped the Holocaust, why haven't they stopped all these wars that we've seen in recent years when they have knowledge? What good is this of your knowledge? For the production of weapons, death, pollution of nature, destruction of animal species and nature? Why didn't you do something about pollution in Slavonski Brod when you already have an Environment Committee, so why didn't you do something about the Adriatic drilling? When you're protecting supposedly human rights and you have great knowledge why don't you do something about the question of detachment, about the blockage of accounts? Which is why today the President of the Parliament is saying that we here are going to discuss what happened at 2. The World War and the Homeland War? Will we then dispute beside you the living and the healthy? You think we have more knowledge of this than you do? For waiting 70 years if you hadn't told me what happened at time 2. World War I? Read the papers published in the former Yugoslavia. It was all thrown into the trash because it was written there lies and nonsense, anti-Croatian, it was done by your academy. Read it, don't hide here now, because you're doing it today. Tell us the truth, heal this company. If you already have such knowledge as you call upon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24121	... The respected academic Paul Rudan will respond. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24122	I hope you hear me, we have knowledge, we have answered a lot of questions, but you gentlemen are exactly your fellow Bunjac and all those who don't know what it is to ask questions and solve them. The Assembly is where solutions are made. We've ordered you to do this. If you are able to understand what we have told you everything is fine, if you do not believe that the Croatian people will no longer choose you for this honorable function they should perform next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24123	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. I would like to thank Croatian Academy of Science and Arts Secretary General Paul Rudan. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24124	The following is the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2015. Reporter's name is HAZU. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am voting on the next conclusion, the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2015. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote is 103 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24125	We are now going to the next point, that is: - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Interim Agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement between the Member States of East and South Africa, on the one hand, and the European Community and its Member States, on the other hand, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.50. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. Contributions to the bill are not multiplied but are found on the Croatian Assembly website. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal following the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs Mrs. Marija Pecinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me briefly present to you the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Interim Agreement establishing a framework for an Economic Partnership Agreement between the Member States of East and South Africa, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part. The interim agreement establishing a framework for an agreement in the economic partnership between the countries of East and South Africa and the European Community and its Member States is a mixed international agreement agreed before the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. On 29 August 2009, the Interim Agreement was signed by four countries in East and South Africa, Mauricios, Sejeli, Zimbabwe and Madagascar, and the European Community. Since 14 May 2012, the interim agreement has been applied provisionally between the EU and Mauricius, Sejela, Zimbabwe and Madagascar, and on 17 January 2013, the European Parliament has given its consent. Having regard to the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to access to agreements concluded by Member States and the Union with one or more third countries or with an international organisation and the fact that the Treaty of Accession of the EU Republic of Croatia does not contain that provision on the accession to the Interim Agreement, it is necessary to implement the procedure for confirming the Interim Agreement in order to meet the conditions for laying down the access documents with depositaries. The Interim Agreement shall be based on a partnership agreement between the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part. On 23 June 2000, it is a framework for the conclusion of an economic partnership agreement between those parties. The basic objective of the interim agreement is, on the one hand, to retain the duty-free and unquote approach of the EU's eastern and southern Africa until a comprehensive economic partnership agreement enters into force. On the other hand, obtaining access to the new market in the countries of East and South Africa through asymmetric and gradual market liberalisation, and establishing an effective and transparent regulatory framework for trade and investment, in line with the objectives of sustainable development. The Interim Agreement contains all the measures necessary to establish the area of free trade in accordance with the General Agreement on Customs and Trade 1994 and in this context contains provisions on the trade regime for goods, fisheries, economic and development cooperation, dispute settlement, and administrative and institutional provisions. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Taking into account the nature of the process of confirming international contracts and the fact that amendments or additions to the text of the international contract cannot be made at this stage of the procedure, it is proposed that this final proposal for a law be discussed in an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24127	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first representative of the SDP Club will speak to representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24128	I would like to say that the SDP Club will support the ratification of the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between East and South Africa and the European Community and its Member States. The objectives of the agreement are in line with the development policy of the Republic of Croatia and our obligations to implement the Millennium Development Goals as provided for by the United Nations Declaration of 2000. Development cooperation is an important component of foreign policy and should contribute to the achievement of solidarity and justice in international relations, and consequently to promotion in all societies of common values codified in the Charter of Human Rights and Fundamental Documents. The main objective of development policy is to enable citizens of all countries to manage their own present and future for their own benefit, and to enable each individual to make personal progress and development. At the heart of development policy there is man, his dignity, his rights and his needs. Today, the differences between developed and undeveloped countries as well as the inequality within the countries themselves are particularly between the rich minority and the poor majority and cause various social deviations from terrorism to non-acceptance of sustainable development, from opposition to climate change to organised crime. from corruption to deepening the digital gap. Development co-operation is an instrument for correcting these deviations in strengthening man's dignity, in order to strengthen man's dignity and stability of international relations. Unlike humanitarian aid whose primary objective is to save lives in crisis situations and to facilitate human suffering, development cooperation focuses on solving the cause of the problem, and, after identifying the source of the problem, provides proposals to promote overall political, economic and social development with the ultimate goal of achieving its sustainability and training of society and individuals to manage their own destiny. Since these objectives are intended to be achieved in the area of East and South Africa, the interim agreement in question should certainly support it. In addition, this is also our obligation from the Treaty of Accession of the EU where it is clearly said that we are obliged to join agreements concluded by Member States and the EU with other countries and international organisations. However, this opportunity must also be used to look back at the economic cooperation and diplomatic presence of the Republic of Croatia in Africa. Africa is a continent of great economic potentials and Croatia's business increasingly recognises the chance either of restoring old ties from the age of non-classification, whether our new companies are trying to make a breakthrough on the African market, and they certainly need the help of Croatian economic diplomacy. In order for diplomacy to successfully realise this task, it is necessary to be present in Africa, and in East and South Africa, which is bigger than all of Europe, we have only one embassy that is in Pretoria, South Africa, and it is only in the non-Arab part of Africa. Not enough for quality support for the Croatian economy. Croatian companies are not only trying to develop trade relations with Africa, they are investing in it. For example, Podravka has a factory in Tanzania. The closest Croatian embassy is hundreds of miles away and cannot be of greater benefit. It is also necessary in the state budget to separate some of the money for economic diplomacy because it is an instrument to help Croatian exports, thereby investing in our country's economic recovery. But what happened in the current state budget? The only ministry I've had the chance to see who's been cut by the budget is the Foreign Ministry, and that's right on the subject of economic diplomacy. It's the very activity of the ministry that's most visible to citizens, to companies, to entrepreneurs. Right there the ministry achieved the highest and the best results there were reduced budgets. So I don't know how such a policy towards the Foreign Ministry fits into the government's overall policy and the government's declared priority, which is economic recovery. Because exports take place outside the Republic of Croatia, and this is the area of competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Investment in economic diplomacy is in fact an investment in Croatian exports because the foreign ministry only has infrastructure abroad on the ground of all state bodies and can help our exporters break through international markets. And why is export so important? Well, he's one of the most important, if not the most important engine of the country's recovery. Croatia is a relatively small market, the purchasing power of our population is relatively modest, unfortunately, our capacities, products are much larger than what can absorb our market. The only chance we have to sell so we make money in international markets, the only chance we have to increase production if we can place our goods on international markets, is if we sell out and charge, then new orders will increase production. Increases in production means increased employment of people, and these are the objectives of both these governments and previous governments, and these are the objectives of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I can't figure out how the government could cut off the foreign ministry's budget, how it could cut off economic diplomacy. And I'm sorry that the foreign minister didn't fight harder for this particular item in the budget, although I know how hard it is to balance the budget, I know how hard it is to give someone, and take the others because there are many hungry mouths in terms of finance in the Republic. But this is an investment in our recovery, investment in economic diplomacy is an investment in the recovery of the Republic of Croatia's economy. In conclusion, I would like to say that the development policy of the Republic of Croatia is beginning to have an increased meaning when it is imported into the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia. This is how the overall foreign policy should be defined, and it must come from national and national interests of which one important recovery of the Croatian economy is certainly important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24129	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the next word will be taken by the distinguished representative Miro Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24130	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I also warmly welcome Madam State Secretary Pejcinovic-Buric. This morning, we voted on the Committee on Foreign Policy for the adoption of this interim agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement between the countries of East and South Africa on the one hand and the European Community and its Member States, on the other hand, and we in the HDZ are also in favour of adopting this proposal for an emergency law. The State Secretary already said the topics for this agreement from Kotonu to Benin were reached 16 years ago between the EU and African, Caribbean and Pacific countries. These countries that are covered by this temporary agreement are small relatively small countries for African concepts, there are not many inhabitants there are Mauricios million and 200 thousand inhabitants, there are Sejeli 81 thousand inhabitants, Zimbabwe 13 million inhabitants, Madagascar 17 million inhabitants. In Africa, we have a billion and 200 million inhabitants on the continent right now, the projection is in 30 years that there will be 2.5 billion inhabitants on the African continent. We currently have 60 million refugees in the world, half of them children, most of them from Syria and Afghanistan, and then we have African countries Somalia, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of Congo. Why am I saying this? Because we need to take this opportunity to realize that Africa is a continent where the population is growing and well that the EU is developing economic co-operation with the countries of the African continent. We need to be much more active, see what the Chinese are doing how active they are, how much they use their cooperation with countries in Africa and for their economic breakthroughs, I mean China. So we need to be aware of this in Croatia even though we are not big, we also need to talk about Africa and migration in Croatia in public space. It is also very important for us here in Croatia. So that's the first appeal, let's wake up and talk publicly and think about Africa. Otherwise, speaking of Africa, this institute for international relations is called the IRMO when it was founded in 1963, so 18 years after World War II was founded an institute that was then called the Institute for Study of Africa. Then he changed his name to the Institute for the Study of Development, etc., now it doesn't matter. Today's name is IRMO. So that's the first appeal. The second appeal, when it comes to this agreement and for our state institutions and institutions dealing with economic development, we need to study more and better what effects such agreements have on the Croatian economy. I was amazed when I also found my partner party colleague to warn that when it comes to CETA on an agreement between the EU and Canada, I did not see a study on the effects of the agreement on the Croatian economy. So we will agree that some major effects will not be from the application of this agreement to the Croatian economy, but it is unacceptable that we in Croatia do not analyse the effects of such agreements on the Croatian economy. We don't do this to a sufficient extent, and we have to be there a lot, we have to strengthen our abilities, or we have to create them if we don't have them enough in some segments yet. So it is another appeal to be more efficient on this plan, to better study the effects of such agreements on the Croatian economy. The third appeal concerns formulating and Croatian policies in those organisations where we are a member, both in the European Union and elsewhere, and we need to be much better prepared to formulate specific Croatian national interests, better import all those factors that depend on the implementation of these policies. This is very important, we now see the current example and negotiations by neighbouring Serbia on membership in the European Union where the Croatian government has taken one move, has warned that the neighbouring country is not fulfilling some of its obligations, and it is commendable that there is a credible position, that there is courage, only clearly that we expect the Croatian government to endure and there is no yield until that specific requirement is achieved and it is achieved. So, I repeat, the HDZ Club will be to accept this proposal of the law by emergency procedure, with these three appeals to raise awareness of the challenges we have in the area of the continent in Africa, especially in the area of migration, so that the other appeal to study better is analysed better in Croatia, which are the effects of the agreements that we sign on the Croatian economy, on the Croatian reality. And thirdly, this refers in particular to those organisations where Croatia has its place as a member, specifically in the European Union. We need to study better what are the effects of the application of certain agreements, contracts in Croatia and the Croatian economy. I thank Mr. President and welcome once again Secretary of State Pecinovic Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24131	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Kovac, you mentioned in your debate on behalf of the club that Croatia is not doing an analysis or study of the impact of trade agreements on the Croatian economy. And I have to say you're right. You're right. I'd just like to add the reason he doesn't. In fact, we have done only one study and this study of the influence of TTIP, so trade agreements with the United States of America on Croatia. Currently, the European Union has concluded 46 contracts with various countries with which Croatia also has trade relations, we have not done a study and we did not know when we agreed to these contracts, what exactly is the effect on the Croatian economy. But we didn't make them because the Foreign Ministry doesn't have the money to order such studies, and it just doesn't have the capacity and probably never will have anyone expect the ministry to have such capacities for that kind of analysis and study. And that's why I saw that in this new budget, too, there was a cut in money for the Foreign Ministry in particular for economic diplomacy, whose job was to order such studies, to submit an amendment to the budget, asking for an increase in the amount of money intended for economic diplomacy. So I ask all parliamentary representatives when this amendment comes to the agenda, to think about what we are talking about today, and to realize that much more active and quality will be a service to our exporters, our entrepreneurs on the international market if we give more money to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and economic diplomacy for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24133	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24134	I would like to thank Mr. President for his words. What Mr Klisovic said is standing, but it is not just a matter of costs. The current issue is the organisation, so very often information can be obtained if the relevant institutions that exist in Croatia, if you consult them. So, there are organizations, there are institutions in the Republic of Croatia that are on request, e.g. The foreign ministry of another state body in Croatia can provide information. So there are various institutions. There is also a Croatian Chamber of Commerce, there are associations of employers, various specialised associations which then question the authorities of the state administration, e.g. The foreign ministry, some other bodies, can provide information, can help us with information that will then allow us in Croatia to better assess what is in the Croatian interest, which is not, but in principle I agree with Mr Klisovic when it comes to better consulting those organisations in Croatia who have and the resources that can give us more information about what is important for this type of agreement, for this type of contract. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24135	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate with that, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24136	The following is the final proposal for a Law confirming the interim agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement between the Member States of East and South Africa on the one hand and the European Community and its Member States on the other hand, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.50. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a Law confirming a provisional agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement between the Member States of East and South Africa on the one hand and the European Community and its Member States on the other. Please vote. The vote is over. Please vote. I find that, by a majority of the 107 votes, one abstentioned and no vote against the adopted Law confirming the interim agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement between the Member States of East and South Africa on the one hand and the European Community and its Member States on the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24137	We will now move to: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Command of the Supreme Allied Commander for Transformation, as well as the Supreme Command of Allied Forces in Europe in connection with providing support to the host state for the implementation of NATO military activities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 60. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence Mr Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24138	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding is a useful step for the Republic of Croatia in facilitating operational operations related to the organisation and implementation of NATO-led exercises and operations. In line with NATO's concept of multinational logistics and providing support to the host country, the Memorandum of Understanding is a framework HNS agreement or host nation support agreement. This law confirms a Memorandum of Understanding in order to make its provisions in accordance with the Constitution part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Memorandum of Understanding constitutes a framework agreement which combines support from the host country, speeds up the planning process and organises support from the host country and allows for further development. The Memorandum of Consensus regulates the responsibilities of the host state, NATO Commander, i.e. the countries of the shale, financial issues, legal issues, the protection of forces and security and the disclosure of data. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funding from the State budget as it will take place through the regular activities of the Ministry of Defence. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts to which the state and formally express its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract as well as the fact that changes or additions to the text of the contract are not generally possible at this stage of the procedure, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that this draft law be discussed by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24139	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24140	Dear fellow Members, the Memorandum of Understanding with NATO, means the use of our country and for logistics purposes in the case of operations designated in this area and in the case of a country in our area. The fact that we are despite the alliance, but it is also the fact that when it was necessary to help Croatia the most, NATO and the European Union did not exactly stop at the time to protect Croatia. This should be spoken of much more and discussed because yet Croatian territory for all operations NATO forces and consent I do not know, you give me an explanation of what all this represents for the Republic of Croatia? You have generally said this here, the use of Croatian territory and for logistics i.e. when they think of it, when they decide or Croatia has certain opportunities that if this agreement supports certain possibilities where the Republic of Croatia does not correspond to the use of various operations that NATO is conducting that it can hitchhike. So can you explain in what possibilities and circumstances that can happen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24141	Here, they will respond to the replica of the esteemed secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24142	So here is the Framework Agreement as signed with the federal command by all NATO member states, and it applies primarily to the organisation of military exercises and other activities in NATO member states. Croatia is a NATO member and has assumed both obligations and responsibilities within the alliances that guarantee us, whether that is the case, security and intervention in the event of an attack on the Republic of Croatia. It was also defined by an agreement signed by the Republic of Croatia by entering the NATO alliance. You mention that '90s, '91, when you say that NATO alliance or I don't know who you mean didn't help the Republic of Croatia. I'll just remind you that the crisis in the Balkans would never have resolved if it hadn't directly involved NATO alliance and America as a key force, a military force in the world. I think that we have long concluded discussions in the Croatian Parliament about NATO membership, that there has been the support of all key political actors over whether Croatia should be a NATO member or not. Of course, as I have said, every membership implies both the right and the obligation to accept the rights we have also accepted and the obligations arising from these rights, and in this sense should also be seen as a proposal for this agreement, i.e. the Memorandum Confirmation Act, therefore as one of the obligations of all NATO member states, including, of course, the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24143	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude this part. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, will be spoken by distinguished representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I welcome the Secretary of State as well. The SDP club will support ratification of this memo. Croatia is a NATO member. Croatia as a NATO member, as well as all other NATO members, has an obligation to provide so-called host national support to NATO troops in carrying out their activities, either exercises, or military operations. This is the kind of contract all NATO member states have. And I'd like to ask that the motionor actually confirms it that way. So this is a typical and common contract that you de facto agree to the moment you decided to join NATO. So we're not offering anything new here, we're simply putting into order the full regulation that one NATO member should bring and which stems from its membership in that organisation. And the debate on whether to join NATO or not we should have had a long time ago and Croatia has decided to join NATO. The fundamental reason why we enter NATO is to ensure the safety of our citizens, the safety of our society, the security of our country. Security is the assumption of any form of one society's development. Without security, there's no company. Let us look today in Syria and ask if there is any perspective in these situations, in these circumstances in which Syria has any developments in Syria? You could ask the Vukovars in the Homeland War in 91 what they thought about security and could the city develop without security? So security is the assumption of everything. Every responsible state invests in its own safety, every responsible state knows that security is not a god of day. Security needs to be taken care of and taken care of every day. It is safe to invest and invest on a daily basis. And that is why I also supported the public promise of the Croatian Army budget because it is one insurance policy for our security. That it is activated at a time of crisis, at a time when security threats become so strong that they begin to endanger our life in this space. But aside from investing in national security in today's globalised world, in a world of new challenges, it is rare that a country that can and I don't think that there is any guarantee of its own safety and the safety of its citizens alone in isolation. No one has that ability, no one has that capacity. And what's your next step? The next step is to join forces with those countries, those societies with which you share common values. In our case, these are the primary values of freedom, the values of democracy, respect for man, respect for the dignity of a human being. And that is why we have entered the community of values we call NATO. Exactly to defend their safety and to fight and defend these values that I mentioned. We all have a very clear answer to the question of whether there would ever be aggression on the Republic of Croatia, would Croatian cities, Croatian bridges, infrastructure be destroyed, would Croatian cultural treasures be robbed from Croatia, would Croatian citizens suffer the greatest war horrors? Their human rights were violated in the most wireless way, they were killed, tortured, raped by aggressors and paramilitary formations. Would all this have happened if Croatia had been a NATO member at that time? My opinion is that no, and I believe yours, too. Did NATO help us at the time when it was the hardest time for us? We weren't members and he didn't have an obligation. The EU then dealt with our space and tried to help, afterwards the UN. But when the drop finally spilled a glass, NATO member states just joined in. And you remember very well that the moment the situation in the military field in BIH turned around was when a NATO member joined. And we know how NATO members also looked at the liberating operations "Storm", "Blash", which the Croatian military successfully and effectively implemented. Therefore, the only guarantee of stability in this area, the experience shows us was NATO's engagement whether military or political. And I hope that it will remain that way, that NATO will continue to be a community of values in which we trust together and that we will fight together at these values for them and try wherever security threats are needed to stop our security. When I say wherever it's necessary, then I don't think we can wait for security to threaten, that the danger to our lives, material goods, to our society and the state come to our backyard. God forbid they come into our house. Today in a globalised world, we must fight security threats at the very source, where they arise. There you need to deal with them and there you need to solve the problems either politically and preferably with political methods and ways, diplomatically as well, and if that is not possible then it is also necessary to engage militaryly. All sources of conflict that generate threats in the world for our safety must not be rejected, we must not ignore it because sooner or later it will knock on our door. In order for this to happen, we are actively working with a group of very high-quality influential, capable, large-scale states, the most effective states in the world that have been gathered in NATO. It is precisely at the promotion of these values and to the protection of our security and security of the entire Euro-Atlantic area. But Croatia must also know that this is not a one-way street, that it can expect NATO to stand in defense of its state territory, its citizens, but also Croatia has an obligation to make its contribution to the activities of the alliance to ensure the security of the entire Euro-Atlantic area. Well, this memorandum is one of our contributions to make such a contribution because we do not know what the future holds for us, and we do not know what contribution Croatia will have to make to the defence of its security and defence of the security of Euro-Atlantic space. And that's why we need to be prepared and ready for the field in this legal sense. Speak and define the conditions under which NATO troops come to Croatia, NATO Member States' troops come to Croatia, practice on our national territory but also carry out military activities that are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and its security and independence. Recently, he came out, came up with information whether it's true or not I don't know, but that a NATO document a few weeks ago says that NATO is ready if there's a need for such an intervention in the area of Southeast Europe. Now that's where we live. As a threat, they are mentioned if this is true according to the unverified, so the information that was in the media is mentioned the arrival of foreign fighters from Syria who can radicalise individual countries in Southeast Europe to the extent that they are likely to become dysfunctional, but also mention interethnic conflicts that can generate enmity and armed conflicts. We remember those and we don't want to go through it again. What we want to give our contribution to peace and stability in Southeast Europe. That's how we strengthen ourselves, that's how we're responsible for our citizens. We use our own abilities, primarily the Armed Forces, but not just them. And the force of the police and diplomacy and total politics. But that's what we use allied forces for because we can't do it alone. To say that we are self-sufficient and that we can all be wrong and completely detachable from reality. As a mature state, we must not do this, and I hope that there is a consensus on this by the main parliamentary political parties that have received the largest number of votes of our citizens and that our citizens actually support this policy. Therefore, the SDP club will also support this law and the ratification of the memorandum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24145	Thank you very much. We have a replica of your exposure to the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24146	Kola Klisovic, I agree with you that the most important security is the citizens and territories of the Republic of Croatia. Threats threaten every day, in such a world we live in. On all matters, the security of our citizens and our territories. However, we are talking here about a memorandum that we will also sign on security, but the fact is that Croatia has not had a new National Security Strategy since 2002. So we have a strategy until we've been to NATO and we haven't even been a member of the EU yet. So neglected is the Croatian soldier, which we are witnessing because we are members of the defense, so we have seen the condition of military, equipment and the condition of the Croatian soldier. The Croatian Army, which means an old saying, says "Trust in and in your beaks", no one is in favour of co-operation. However, when we look at only the schedule of Croatian forces now on the territory of the Republic of Croatia we see that the Croatian defence system is being targeted, we have no reservation. We don't have any military time except for a volunteer. So we don't have an organisational reserve that we can intervene, and we have a professional soldier to talk about. What about a professional soldier? On the way of life inside the military, about the possibility of training here this year for the first time the ministry will give more funding and that's something positive and that's why I repeat it again. We can't just rely on some kind of help. In the 1990s, we trusted that at the end of the 1990s, at the end of the Homeland War, because it was granted because it was seen that the Croatian soldier could not and... The Croatian people are not fragile. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And at first, it was quite different. The Croatian Defence System is at the bottom And I hope we must rise from that ashes. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24147	Thank you. The esteemed Josko Klisovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24148	Thank you very much. I agree with you, colleague Bulj, that the Armed Forces and the entire defence system are not the same level as you and I would probably want and that is why we should invest in this, and therefore we are committed to increasing the budget to the Armed Forces just to encourage this process. Because national forces and as the people say, "use and in their beaks" are the safest and I agree with that. NATO on the other hand offers one framework for the development of our armed forces in the most modern way. NATO standards are the highest standards worldwide in this world in which we live in the area of defence. If we want a quality effective army, or Armed Forces, then it is best to follow this very knowledge that we have and that we can get through the NATO framework. Our Armed Forces have an extremely effective military-technical cooperation with many NATO members and from here a sickle of knowledge and experience, not to say they're getting equipment. They get the equipment and they get it as a donation, but they don't have to pay taxes on that donation, so sometimes I can't bring it back which is really a shame on our part when we approve of the budget. When we talk about this agreement and in general about NATO's activities, we're not just talking about weapons, military movements, military deployments in a country or this guy's operations. You are aware that everyone in this assembly of colleagues, Bulj, is certain that our state institutions were the subject of the so-called so-called state institutions a few weeks ago. Cyber attacks, cyber attacks. So there's a level of security, threats are much wider than what predicates when you say NATO and always think about guns and shooting. You know, defending yourself against such sophisticated attacks isn't easy. The knowledge that NATO states have, the operational procedures they have, how to protect the institutions of the state, energy systems, transport systems, electronic from attacks, cyber attacks by those who do not have a good opinion, do not want good to Croatia is very useful to us. Maybe we don't have that level of knowledge, and this is how we can get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24149	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative Josip Djakic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Command of the Supreme Allied Transformation Commander and the Supreme Command of Allied Forces in Europe in connection with providing support to the host state for the implementation of NATO military activities. In line with the NATO concept, it is clear that more national logistics and providing support to host countries... The Memorandum of Understanding presents an indicative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When no frame is prescribed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The agreement requires the conclusion of specific agreements for each individual exercise or operation in order to clarify legal and technical issues making it difficult and slow to implement them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these are the basics that want to be solved by this agreement and the memorandum. The conclusion of this Memorandum of Understanding is a useful step for the Republic of Croatia in facilitating operational operations related to the organisation and implementation of NATO-led exercises and operations. We are aware of the moment and everything that is happening in our environment, we are aware of new threats as well as all that NATO means in the world order as we are about to enter the NATO alliance system. This memorandum was launched and the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was reached by the Government on 29 May 2014 on the launch of negotiations on this draft memorandum of agreement of type agreements in force in all countries, it will also be in the Republic of Croatia, so there should be no doubt about what it means and what it will be in the future. It means operationality and speed in decision-making, as well as in conducting exercises and operations, and logistics support of the country of shale. I don't think it should be too widespread about this, we also have the information that the Memorandum of Consent on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed in Zagreb on 8 April 2016 by Assistant Minister Nikola Brzica, and for the Supreme Command of Allied Forces in Europe and the Commander of the Supreme Federal Transformation Commander, General Werner Freers, Chief of Staff of the Federal Army of the Federal Republic of Germany in Mons, signed on 24 May 2016 and therefore this agreement was signed before us today and this memorandum. I can therefore point out once again that the HDZ Club has no doubts about this agreement and this Memorandum and will actively support the adoption of such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24151	Thank you very much. The next club representative is I do not know actually Live Wall and SNAGA in the name of which will speak distinguished representations Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24152	Dear ladies and gentlemen. You all know that our party is peaceful in its nature or that we are opposed to both violence and war. Today we bear witness to the fact that one contract has been put on the table to facilitate the deployment of US soldiers as well as other NATO soldiers in our country. We believe that our country has no use for the NATO Pact, but only financial obligations, and this contract provides certain financial provisions that are unusual to our country at the very least. Look at this saying, equipment, material resources, products, materials and services temporarily imported said in connection with NATO military activity, all customs duties, taxes, taxes were released. So de facto unlike our citizens who have to pay taxes and customs and all possible taxes they mean NATO troops won't have to pay any taxes, which means that the state as such from their presence here will have no use. In addition to being of no use, apart from having to financially serve NATO and giving hundreds of millions of kunas to NATO military missions, we will move American soldiers out of status to say neutral countries and put ourselves in direct conflict in geopolitical terms with countries that are potential enemies of America. Our policy has always been clear, not war, not NATO for our country's neutrality and peace. This agreement is a step that moves us in the opposite direction. I would like to point out that one of the reasons for me to object to the presence of the US military in Croatia is that the US military uses poor uranium in its ammunition or in its bullets and artillery in grenades. You have an example of the Abrams tanks whose armor is largely in the key component, built of the impoverished uranium as well as its battle ammunition, which ultimately results in these penetrators that break through armor doing terrible consequences for anyone who is exposed to this harmful action. Since the impoverished uranium is by its nature during the explosion or penetration into the object comes to its, so to speak, incineration and amidst it sprays on all sides in tiny particles, it permanently pollutes space. Doug Ruki, an American who worked on repairing damages by these penetrators or objects affected by uranium-deprived missiles, said that 80% of his unit had already died. Doug Handy, you can Google it. There is also a film Deadly Dust that you can see which is in our language to get acquainted with the consequences of the poored uranium. And now what's going on? Although all research suggests that poor uranium is dangerous to people's health and we see the consequences of children born with deformities in Iraq, Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina, or with certain difficulties in development, the US government today claims that the poor uranium is safe, that it is actually harmless even if the UN, so the UN claims it is poison, it's something dangerous, no, the American government says no, no, it's all OK. And now what's going on? What happens is that it is possible for the American army to use poor uranium in these exercises and to say in Slun where there is a military polygon of people, or children, to get sick because of the use of poor uranium. I'll give you an example of Serbia. Studies carried out there after NATO and the US invasion in Yugoslavia show that in all places exposed to American bombs there is an increase in leukemia, and leukemia means cancer of blood cells that leads to death. And by accepting America and American foreign policy, by accepting its soldiers in our country, its military equipment, we also expose our own people to the dangers of these weapons contained in the impoverished uranium. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you not to accept this agreement with America because it will lead to the stationing of American soldiers in our country and you know for a fact that America has military bases all over the world. The goal of America or NATO is clear, it is control of resources. It's the wealth of a few to the detriment of most, it's a geopolitical game where local countries, host countries are only used as polygons for the deployment of military forces, American military forces that spread chaos, unrest and wars around the world. You have seen the example of Libya where NATO, meaning Croatia too, because all decisions in NATO must be made unanimously, has given the green light for the country's bombing and for its destruction and destruction. Also in Afghanistan, we all know who brought the Taliban to power, it was America. Also today, Croatian soldiers are deployed to Afghanistan as part of NATO. Unlike these military missions that he has money for and has resources, there are no poor citizens in our own country. I think that if this agreement is accepted, his financial provisions that release NATO or the US military should be amended from paying taxes and other charges. I don't see why they would be exempt from paying taxes, if, say, young people up at the gallery have to pay their taxes and customs state. The U.S. government has much more money available than these young people, and I don't think it should be exceptional. This whole contract actually shows one of our country's servant relations with America and NATO because only rights that have US military forces are mentioned here and they have every right. They even have a provision, here are legal questions, says: Unconcerned claims arising from or in connection with the implementation of this agreement will be resolved as NATO determines. So, not Croatian courts. Watch out! They don't even need insurance to pay for their vehicles in Croatia, but as NATO, they have some kind of insurance to their own, and the question is how will families, for example, who die in accidents be compensated. You have a situation with American soldiers, for example. in Okinawa, Japan, they commit a crime, e.g. They rape someone and they don't answer for it in Japan. So they're not subject to domestic courts. I am interested because this agreement does not speak, whether American soldiers who commit crimes in our country or even the most monstrous ones, will be under the authority of the Croatian judiciary or will be protected by our judiciary. We have seen how they behave in other countries where they were deployed, in these under quotes to peacekeeping missions, such as. in Iraq, Afghanistan, etc. The WikiLeaks documents came out, Julian Assange published them, which actually expose the criminal nature of American and foreign aggressive policies and speak documentedly of their war crimes. But what is it? America refuses to sign accession to the International Criminal Court. Why? Because America commits war crimes, but it doesn't answer to anyone. In Iraq, he was under false charge that Saddam Hussein had a weapon of mass destruction, and he didn't. America has committed an aggression against international law against the country and nearly half a million Iraqis have died. In what state the land is located after the invasion you read daily on the news. There are conditions under which this agreement could possibly be accepted, and those provisions would include, it is the minimum minimum that these American soldiers and their allies are not exempt from tax, that they agree to be held accountable to the Croatian judiciary if they commit certain crimes and that the US military or the US state sign accession to the International Criminal Court without responsibility to the International Criminal Court and without respecting the decisions of the UN Security Council we are actually pushing the world into unrest and chaos because where America begins, international law disappears. I call upon the Croatian people who have had enough of the war, who have had enough imperialism, because at the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, you all see this attack of refugees from where it came from. They say that America and NATO are stronger peace and security for us. Look at the inhabitants of Italy, and they too were guaranteed by NATO peace and security. What did they get after the invasion of Libya? They've got endless columns of refugees arriving every day in Italy. And now they don't know what to do with those refugees. And the same recipe that happened in Libya, America made in Iraq, Afghanistan, even tried in Syria, bombing even Yemen. I'm very interested in what basis does America bomb, like Yemen? What legal basis? Not at all. And that's the point of that American foreign policy. By putting our country in the service of American imperialism, we are making our country, our air, and our sea available for their exercises and, in fact, military activities. Watch this, NATO military activities, military actions, means we are making our country available for military action and we know that America is doing military action everywhere, including exercises, training, experimental operations and similar activities, or conducting strategic, tactical, service, training and administrative military missions. The process of fighting including attack, movement, supply and maneuvers needed to achieve the goals of any battle or campaign. So if America decides tomorrow to invade any country in the world and if we accept this protocol our country will be able to be a polygon for the start of these operations. I think that's what we're putting our own country at risk, and that's why we're putting our citizens at risk. As a representative of citizens who are peaceful and who are against war and global imperialism led by the United States, I must say that it means on behalf of our Live Wall Representatives Club we will vote against this proposal and we will not accept it. The rest of my colleagues in the Parliament are on their conscience that they will vote on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24153	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the esteemed Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24154	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, colleague Pernar, you said that Americans, not Americans, but NATO states under this agreement will not pay taxes and customs. [[Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Bunjac is too late to lift a tile.]] However, NATO is an international organisation and I am not sure whether you are aware that all international organisations operating in places have a similar agreement and that it is one practice in international relations that the host country releases customs and taxes to an international organisation in the context of its work. It therefore enjoys the status of both the OSCE and the UN, the UN's offices and its organisations, the Council of Europe and other organisations. The arrival of NATO troops in Croatia to certain countries is if I am not mistaken, resulting in investment in the infrastructure of the area where exercises take place. So very often NATO invests in the reconstruction of the water network, in rebuilding the sewer network, or building a school or kindergarten and making one connection with the local population. So it's not that they're even socially insensitive to such things. You also said that Croatia is denying neutrality by concluding or agreeing to this agreement. Croatia has never declared neutrality, it is a special category in international law and there is also something to know about it. The same way you identify NATO and the United States, the United States are only one NATO member, have its national foreign policy as Croatia has its own and does not mean that in each segment these policies will match. So in NATO, 28 members are sitting in line with their views and taking the joint positions of the organisation and these positions are jointly implemented, not carrying out the common views of one country alone. Well, you know for a fact that Americans intervened in Iraq, not in NATO's context, precisely because some NATO states disagreed with the intervention. So let's figure out what NATO is, figure out what members are and what the US is as one of the members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24155	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24156	Listening to the presentation of my colleagues from the SDP, I have seen that he views NATO as a humanitarian organisation that builds around the world kindergartens, schools, socializes with residents of the country, hosts, etc. However, if you look at those total amounts of NATO spending, or NATO member states, on combat activities and how much of what you have stated, you will understand that it is 0.01% of the funds, or that all these activities are actually propaganda in nature with the aim of softening the attitudes of the local population. Claiming that NATO is not an instrument of American foreign policy. So I ask whose is it then? Is it possible that Croatia was to invade Afghanistan or Libya? Was it really our decision or when the Croatian soldiers were sent to Afghanistan when HDZ initially opposed the proposal and needed a two-thirds majority, the invitation of the US ambassador to Prime Minister Ivo Sanader arrived and that the ambassador told him that you must send your soldiers there. So these stories about how we decide together as our own, you tell us that fairy tale already about the EU, i.e. That's what you told us we'd decide together with their table but we see only the directives coming in here that we don't decide there and the same thing is with the question of Washington. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24157	Thank you. The last replica is the esteemed Mira Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24158	Thank you very much. A colleague of Pernar, Croatian politics in the last 15 years, have been acting as Alice in the country in wonders. So now I'm going to repeat since 2002 we don't have a national security strategy, but we have an old one that's absolutely inapplicable and invalid. I have a Croatian army, again I will repeat that the Croatian state must have Croatian soldiers who are trained and ready to carry out Croatian defence forces who are ready to carry out tasks on their territory and, of course, if there is no reservation, if there is no military deadline, I do not know how many young people from 20 to 35 are now able to break up the rifle and basic things that in other Member States we do not have before the banner. And of course now that we have entered NATO, when we have entered this security and the EU is suddenly aware that there are threats in this area. We have threats, so the Russian minister in Serbia says he will arm Serbs, the Serb army as some sort of counterweight to Croatian forces because of several helicopters. The Croatian soldier proudly defended this country, the Croatian soldier is human, and the Croatian army when you observe and when you talk about the Croatian soldier and the Croatian people is human. If that were the thought of the 90th, you know how far the Serbian border would have been? What Seselj, the Chetnik then asked for and his assistant Vukic you are often in Serbia, his Chetnik Duke Vukic they wanted the border at the time, only the surroundings of few Zagreb would remain. The Croatian soldier never entered a foreign state but defended his country and therefore I am disappointed with the Croatian political elites who literally disarmed the Croatian army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24159	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24160	I had already said earlier in a debate that the Russian Federation had recognised the Croatian state 2 months before the United States, although the Dubrovnik Republic was the first state to recognise the United States. As far as America is concerned, America has exactly its sanctions against all the countries of the former Yugoslavia and knowing that only Serbia has weapons and we do not put in an unequal position Croatia and Serbia and have actually made Serbian aggression possible. If America hadn't imposed sanctions on our country, Vukovar wouldn't have fallen because we could be able to get weapons without a problem. The money was coming and if it hadn't been for stealing from you, it would have been known who, that money that came for guns and if it hadn't been for American sanctions, our country would have been much more effectively defended. And I remember NATO when NATO comes to us 10 years after the Homeland War and says, "Come to NATO now, we will now give you peace and security." So there's a saying she says, "It's late for Marko in Kosovo." We needed defence from Serbian aggression 25 years ago and now we don't need it anymore. Then when we needed it, then we got from America a picturesque bullet in the back, and now that our soldiers are forced into war on these world battlefields, now NATO is supposed to need us, and now they're showing love for Croatia, etc. In an individual debate, I will look back at an example that is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24161	Thank you. You can present your colleague Pernar immediately in an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24162	Regarding these American or NATO military operations, my great desire is to set an example of black men in the American army who were in the Vietnam War. Then Vietcong was sharing the flyers, so flyers to American soldiers black and on that fly was shown white as commander and black as company, so blacks are ordinary soldiers and their superior is white and they were told backing states back in America that blacks are at the end of the line. But here in Vietnam we put you first. Same way I will. [[Invasion: Reiner: Excuse my colleague Pernar stick to the topic, please.]] In the same way NATO uses Croatia during its exercises and operations, or America, not in a way that we don't know that modern planes are using us exclusively as cannon meat, so all it needs is our infantry. And I would like to give an example of a pro by NATO action in Croatia and why against this agreement is the case from Jarmina, namely in Jarmina is NATO radar and there is an epidemic of cancer. Take care of this situation for Franji Dumbovic from Jarmina, not far from Vinkovci, the doctors diagnosed stomach cancer at the end of the year, since then, 38 chemotherapy has passed, but unfortunately without much help. Franjo Dumbovic is unfortunately not an isolated case in Jarmina. In the last 8 years, nearly a hundred locals have been ill at the edge of the village with 2.5 thousand inhabitants next to the orchards of former Bosnians in Jarmina. Three cases of eye cancer, sinus, prostate, have been reported. He says Zdravko has tumors on both kidneys and his father died of lung cancer. He says no one measured the radiation in them. Their calls to different institutions to come and measure radar radiation were answered only by some bioenergy who, after just a few minutes of staying in the village, told them to get the hell out of here. The most endangered is seen as Jelačić Street, which has recorded as many as 23 cases of various cancers. In the first 10 years on that street, our teammates all became ill, and the houses are about 500 meters from the huge radar dome. When we come in for a checkup at the Vinkovak hospital, doctors grab their heads when they see where we're from and tell Jarmina right away, it's not cancer. And they see that there's something wrong with us. According to Isma Črcic, her wife's cancer has been affecting her lungs and her brain, with a severe and severe disease she's been struggling for six years. There's so much radiation in here that we've started experiencing mothers burying their children. This is a terrible hard Isma. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you an example of Jarmine you can see the benefits of NATO's residents. If this agreement, or this memorandum, whatever they call it, we accept tomorrow, instead of Jarmina, we could read about another Croatian place, where these NATO soldiers, or American soldiers, have set up their own base, their radars where they use weapons means with poor uranium, etc. etc. It is my duty as elected representative of the people to advocate for all citizens of Croatia, as well as those from Slunj who have had enough U.S. bombs, with plenty of American bullets and U.S. grenades. It is my duty to stand up for the people of Jarmina who want that NATO radar out of their way. It's my duty. Unfortunately, however, most citizens, i.e. Most of the MPs in this House except for my colleagues from our club care more about the interests of America and NATO than about the interest of Isma Črčić, or let's say I set some other example of Zdravko Črčić, her husband. Or Franjo Dumbovic. Ladies and gentlemen, the fates of our own citizens and the future of our country are more important to me than the spread of American logistics throughout the globe of Earth. I think my colleague correctly noted from the SDP that Croatia is not a neutral country but has settled alongside America. Well, yeah, you're right. And that decision was wrong to me, and I see as I just read a little while ago that some of its consequences. In my opinion, Croatia must be an independent and sovereign country which is neutral and which is not managed outside. Instead, we see that only a few months after NATO asked us to send our soldiers to the Russian border today, we are receiving a memorandum allowing American and NATO soldiers to use our country not just for peace purposes. It is a key issue, not only for peace purposes but for military action, the fight-making process including attack, movement, supply and maneuvers needed to achieve the goals of any battle or campaign. Will the campaign be next on the east front we don't know? If he will, then if our army is sent there, if this memorandum is brought in, the question must be asked, is there any broader plan? David Icke says there are two theories. One is a conspiracy theory, and the other is a random theory of events. You assure us that by playing the case we are now receiving a memorandum that allows American forces to actually wage war from our country, that it is an accident to ask our soldiers to go to the Russian border, etc. I don't think any of this is an accident, that everything is targeted and planned to achieve American hegemony and dominate both the whole world and our country. If you were to support this agreement, I would support a country, a policy that is all but unrelenting to the rest of the world and that puts profit ahead of man. Because the goals of all American wars in both the Middle East and Latin America were never human rights and the spread of democracy, but rather the rule of resources and the establishment of dictatorships. The dictatorship as we had the opportunity to see in Latin America where they held their power with the help of a death squad, a servant rather than an election. I have to point out in this case, this opportunity and those famous bananas of Chikita. So there, when United fruit company was taken away from them huge amounts of land and when that country was given to the peasants, America actually invaded that country. Iraq refused to sell oil for dollars. The next year he was attacked by America. It is illusory to believe in these fairy tales about NATO spreading peace and freedom and democracy around the world, and when I talked to the president, I got the impression that she didn't believe it herself either. So I think the only people who believe that are actually naive citizens who are deceived and deceived by pro-American propaganda in our media whose information is anything but objective but subjective. And the public debates that take place on HRT actually don't exist. So we didn't have one show on HRT that we could hear. Here are the benefits of us giving our country for NATO military activities involving military actions, maneuvers, fighting procedures, attack, the movement needed to achieve the goals of any campaign battle. What are the benefits of this act for our country? So our country can only be exposed to war and conflict for accepting this memo. I appeal once again to voters to regain consciousness and to stop supporting parties serving America, American imperialism and foreign interests, foreign banks and foreign corporations, the interests of Brussels and Washington and not their own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24163	Thank you very much. We'll take a break now and see you again at three o'clock and continue to discuss it and the next points discuss it. Thank you very much. It's 13:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We have a replica of the esteemed Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24165	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24166	You're giving up well. Then we'll move on to the individual and the first of us is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24167	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here we are talking about a memorandum of agreement where Croatia is making its entire territory essentially available to NATO forces. Here is the basic question, whether there is a possibility, and what if, in certain circumstances, the Republic of Croatia is not in the interest of strategic, national or NATO forces being in our space or logistics, and as far as the exercises themselves are concerned, certain relations already existed with various exercises and exercises of NATO forces in our territory with the Croatian military. We are talking about security, security of the Republic of Croatia, we know that the Croatian army was created in the Homeland War, that it was a winning army, that the army that freed a large part of the occupied country of the Republic of Croatia, which was literally unarmed and in a very short time won the third force of the JNA along with the Chetniks led by today's current leaders of Serbian politics, i.e. They run the state of Serbia. When we talk about security, the fact is that national security, i.e. A national security study as far as it came, I don't know, but I know we've been using documentation since 2002. what the National Security Strategy adopted in 2002 until we were neither in the EU nor in NATO. This tells how much Croatian politics took care of national security and Croatian military i.e. The Croatian soldier, who was trained and equipped at one envious level by 2000, but in the last 17, 18 years we have no more reservation, we have no military deadline that should be required at least at some time that our young boys who are now 18, 19, 20 years old can line up before the flag and not feel that part of the bar socialize together with a group of their fellow soldiers, and with their country for which it died not so long ago. A number of questions are being asked here, what about the Croatian army at the moment? What about all kinds of military organization like I mentioned with the reserve, what about the Air Force, what about the Navy? And the most important question, and we have seen it recently, what about the conditions of the lives of Croatian soldiers? There is also a question of pay because a professional soldier knows what a professional soldier is, it should be only not an interest but a calling that can be said as a man who has been a professional soldier for 18 years, which means being a Croatian soldier, which are denials for his country and in which conditions live. Looking at today's Croatian army by observing the safety of the Croatian army's schedule today, the fact is that from Prevlaka to Knin we have no military stationed anywhere, and we know that Croatia is the closest. And now we're talking about NATO forces, so the Croatian army is unfortunately we have a lot of generals, it seems to me 120 generals, more than China and America together with the entire EU, we have more Croats, but the fact that the Croatian soldier is unfortunately more and more young people leaving the army, more and more young people do not intend to join the Croatian army, but it is also the behaviour of Croatian politicians towards the Croatian soldier that after the Homeland War, a policy of arrest, location, transfer and processing of Croatian heroes then they send a message as to why I would defend my country when my legs and mock me in the end. So the national security system must be based on the fact that the Croatian soldier is the pillar and the foundation of the pine of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Ministry of Defence, which, for the first time in years after this year, proposes more funds in the budget. Issuing the defence funds, and I hope that the highest funds, according to Defence Minister Krsticevic, will focus the most funds on living conditions for Croatian soldiers. Well, we know the air force, how much investment it was when our planes went on a normal flight to Ukraine, and they came back as they returned. I said they had returned to the cariole our fighter aircraft, but the fact is that in such a poor state of safety and the threat of Croatian soldiers because if a pilot drives an incorrect plane, he is threatened and those below are threatened, that is a fact, it is an absurdism. Croatia is a state of absurdity. We have to rely on ourselves and on our beaks. This is the fact, we don't have a well-organized defense system. I don't know how many Croatian soldiers have fired bullets in the first place for the last few years. Here's what I'm talking about is a professional soldier. You know what it's like to be a soldier. A soldier must be trained according to all standards as an individual, as a group of tens of tens of tens of thousands of thousands of thousands of dollars of water, the company, the military, the brigades to strategic levels. We have neither a strategic level nor an ordinary soldier who should be trained by standards for a professional soldier, except for groups that are subordinated to NATO missions or UN missions around the world. What do you say? My key question is and the key message is that Croatia must rely on itself and its beaks, an old proverb. That was evidence in 1991. That the Croatian soldier in the Homeland War has shown what it means to be a soldier in the defence home war, and we see today that Serbia is also a speech in Serbia and a message from the minister of foreign affairs in Russia where he said he would arm the Serbian army. As a propos that we have several new or old helicopters, that's one message where they send a message of instability in this area. But I am sending a message to us here that we also decide that no one can help us as much as we can ourselves because simply what has been made of the Croatian army in the last 17 years is a disaster. I'll tell you the disaster. You are aware of this and you and you are now new to the Ministry of Defence, you have just taken over a position very important in the ministry and you know what I am talking about very well because you are experienced, you have been in the system and command system for a long time and you see that our Croatian soldier today is not what we were trying for and what we fought for. We see that he does not adhere to the dignity of the Croatian soldier, and that is simply, I will repeat again, our young people do not want to enter the Croatian army not only because of the bribery and because of the poor conditions, but because he simply sees the attitude towards the Homeland War, when we see the opening of the 23rd chapter of the Serbs where Croatian defenders, Croatian soldiers who have defended the Croatian state, were left at the hunting grounds of the Serbian judiciary, and Croatia has done nothing to end the negotiations, i.e. to block negotiations over the 23rd chapter of the Serbian judiciary, where the basic things of a young man who wants to be a soldier are simply threatened. There can be no Croatian defence soldier hunted on the hunting ground of the aggressor, and unfortunately at this point it stands so. It's an error of diplomacy, of the Office of the President or of the President, irrelevant. The Croatian soldier must be, it cannot happen in Israel or in America. We're like NATO. And we let it open chapter 23. Whom we protect, who will defend us, what about the reserve, what about the manual army? Where are we, anyway? We don't have anything. We don't even have a basic document on national security that happened in 2002. That's the facts. I therefore call for one serious work as the Committee on National Security and Defence within the Parliament, as well as the Ministry of Defence and all bodies that need to be protected. We see at the Foreign Ministry how the paperwork was breached. So once again, I call upon you to be serious so that we don't play games and trust in ourselves and our beaks. [[Intruder Reiner: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24168	I'm asking you to stick to the weather. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24169	Here, colleague Bulj, you're talking about how the Croatian Army is falling more and more. Usually, sometimes the tendency in history was that the more time it goes by, some of the state's capacities are growing that, I don't know, by the number of inhabitants, by building, by infrastructure, by wealth, and we actually, when we read books from Croatian history, then we see that we have some sort of reverse process, so we, I don't know, at the time of King Tomislav, had 100,000 soldiers. It's probably an exaggeration, look out! In the 10th century, 100,000. Even Ban Jelačić 150 years ago, 160 years ago had about 50, 60 thousand soldiers, and today, if we trust the media, we have 17,000 soldiers, which reminds us of the Croatian army in the time of the Krbbaj Battle or such a medieval conflict, and we really have to ask ourselves what's next. In ten years we will have 5, 6 thousand soldiers and why we surrender, therefore, one very important element of sovereignty and independence in the hands of someone we are not 100 percent sure has good intentions for us. Perhaps the Croatian Army could arm itself with quality and these funds that we pay to the NATO Alliance. In fact, we can't pay for the handbooks because we pay for American handbooks. Because we saw we were paying the Afghan police. We had here, we don't have 20 million to give to our severance officers, but we're paying the Afghan cops. In my opinion, it's one policy that doesn't benefit this country, nor does it provide for our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24170	The answer to the esteemed Mira Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24171	Well, I'll agree with you that the Croatian state is absurd,... But these are really policies that led the Croatian state, in fact, you said well that everything went forward after the Homeland War, it went backwards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's how we can remember, here's where we'll come back that debt... Years or after the Homeland War was nine billion kunas, now we don't even know what debt it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we had the Homeland War, we had 5 billion kunas transferred from the former state, and now we don't know what debt is and we don't have an army, we don't have any security, we don't have any young people to survive here, we don't have any aspects. That's what I'm saying. What kind of policies have been going on and on. So we don't have a basic national security document from 2002. All those who voted for NATO at the time and the EU were not ready to enter in this document that we have joined NATO and that we are in the EU. It means document of national security of the Republic of Croatia strategic document. And the soldier's got no bullet today, I agree. So I don't know how many exercises it is. I have information because I was a Croatian soldier, not long ago, a professional officer. The Croatian soldier was neglected, neglecting a man. The man's a motivation and he's a man, everything goes from man to man. Everything can be made both tanks and planes but if a man is neglected as human potential and motivation of man and these are all Croatian policies that have done it cannot be guaranteed the safety of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24172	Thank you. Now, in an individual debate, the esteemed Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since this contract therefore provides for active Croatian participation in NATO operations, I am obliged, therefore, to introduce the citizens to what these NATO operations look like, which we will be involved in and what this is about, often proclaimed as fighting terrorism. Here I will take a concrete example, and a concrete example is NATO intervention in Libya in 2011 which has been characterised among other things as a struggle for democracy. The fight for democracy ended as we know by overthrowing the then Libyan President Gaddafi who was killed. Gaddafi took Libya in 1969 when it was one of the poorest states in the world. In his day, such results were achieved that the people of Libya had free education and health care. 25% of them gained a college degree and whoever decided to deal with agriculture would get from the state a free house, agricultural equipment and livestock. There were no interest on loans in that country and all the banks were state-owned until the last, no bank was owned by foreign banks. Muammar Gaddafi said that he would not live in the house until the last Libyan lived in the house, so he himself lived in the tent for a good part of his reign, even his own father died in the tent. In Libya, when a young couple decided to marry, they were assisted by a state in the Gaddafi era of $50,000. If he wanted to be treated abroad or wanted to be educated abroad, the Libyan was given state aid and was free of charge. Libyans bought cars with a state subsidy of 50%, a liter of gasoline amounted to about 1 kuna and was so much a kilo of bread. In the middle of the Sahara, Muammar Gaddafi made water and fertile and green fields. This is very important to stress that the state had no external debt but instead of external debt had state reserves of $150 billion. For every child born in Libya, the amount of $5,000 was given, please, I am telling you to compare it with the situation in Croatia. When NATO intervention began, the main charge was against Muammar Gaddafi that he killed 2,000 people during his 42-year reign and imprisoned about 15 thousand of them. The country today was destroyed, it killed after NATO interventions of at least 100,000 inhabitants, 100,000 of them in prisons, and the people of Libya who did not pay electricity today have no electricity, no Internet and no phone. Look at those pictures of NATO bombings from Libya, from Tripoli, Sirt and other cities in 2011, look at the way Muaamar Gaddafi was killed and wonder what the difference between all those totalitarian crimes we condemn and those images we see there. I don't see the difference. And it has nothing to do with politics, but it has to do with human conscience. If we're going to participate in this, who knows of such a similar action, so where will our soul go today, tomorrow? So Croatia does not really have any interest in such actions primarily because of this reason and, on the other hand, Croatia suffers huge economic damage with these actions. We lost jobs worth billions and billions after NATO intervention in Libya. We lose 2 billion kunas from our oil fields there every year in Syria. We have lost many jobs in Iran and Russia and other countries due to sanctions we are forced to give them to others and against the interests of Croatian economies. And what if we were to compare these figures to, say, the figures in the United States that are the main creator and leader of the NATO alliance? Which means 15 thousand imprisoned Libyans in 42 years if today in the United States 2 million 300 thousand people are imprisoned, 2 million 300 thousand people. And that's the kind of country that accuses someone of putting other people away. On the 100,000 inhabitants of America, 800 people are sitting in prison and in China 100, in Turkey accused of violating human rights, sits 90 per 100,000 inhabitants 10 times less than in the United States. American police kill at least 500 people every year on the streets of the United States, in the last 15 years about 8,000 people four times more than they were killed in dictatorial, non-democratic Libya. It is just a small comparison of the situation in the world produced by NATO interventions and produced by an imperial policy that serves to enslave small countries to acquire resources and, above all, oil. Therefore, I would like to say that Croatia has no interest in participating in such actions, both human and moral, and economic. By participating in NATO operations, Croatia has given up its own independence and sovereignty and what we truly need, we need to declare permanent neutrality, equal politics both towards the east and towards the west and towards the south, a peaceful policy and politics in which we ourselves will decide our own destiny which our army will serve only to defend our own country. And in this sense, I call for not only all NATO operations to be interrupted, Croatian participation in them, but for all Croatian soldiers to return home and thus send the world a human and human message to become a role model in Europe, not that Croatia must always take part in something that later in history will not serve us proudly and that in the world will only unnecessarily create enemies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24174	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24175	Respect for fellow Bunjac. Well, I'd like to read just on the subject of what you said to Muammer al-Gaddafi's suicide note before the American rebels killed him. He says, “In the name of God, merciful, for 40 years, and perhaps there is and I no longer remember doing all I could to provide people with apartments, hospitals, schools, and when they were hungry, I gave them food. In Benghazi, I even made a fertile plain out of the desert. I stood up to that cowboy Reagan. Whoever killed my daughter adopted as an orphan trying to kill me killed that poor innocent child. Then I helped my brothers and sisters in Africa with money for the African Union by doing everything I could to help people understand the idea of real democracy. But that was never enough, some of them told me. People with even ten rooms, new departments, and furniture were in no way satisfied. Selfish as they are, they've always wanted more. They have told Americans and other foreigners that they probably mean these other NATO members that they want democracy and freedom without any idea that it's one criminal system where the biggest dog eats the others. They were fascinated by these words without knowing at any time that there was no free treatment in America, free hospitals, free housing, free education or free food except for beggars or long lines of soup or soup." That's what I had the chance to watch there in Jukic. "And what he did, whatever I did to some, was never enough." He said further: "If he had walked in the footsteps of Gamal Abdel Nasser, who returned the Suez Canal from the English and said in his footsteps I was trying to keep my people from colonial slavery, from thieves who came to rob us. I am now under the influence of the greatest military force in the history of war and my little African son Obama wants to kill me, to take away our country's freedom, to take away our free apartments." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24176	Thank you very much for this reading from the Serbian portals about the beauty of Gaddafi's regime and now you will be answered by the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24177	Here I won't read, I won't read, but I'll also appeal to the statement of the dohens of American foreign policy by Henry Kissinger who, when asked how you commented that NATO attacked Libya which was the safest country on the globe of the Earth and he answered that, it's an absolute shame. So he himself confirmed well knowing things that it was about something which in history would be marked as an abominable crime, a crime against a small people who has about the number of inhabitants as well as Croatia who wanted to be free, who wanted to have his own policy, his own happiness was not allowed to do so, and what we have here is enough to look at the Mediterranean sea of a bunch of boats that are progressing towards Europe, the terrible fates of people who are drowning, refugees fleeing, Libyans sitting in the dark, and who is now to bear responsibility? Imagine if another country had done this to its neighbouring country what a conviction it would have been, what all the movies would have been made. And here on the other hand we just come down with our shoulders and say it was a higher power, that's how it had to be, nothing could have been done. But no matter what, this whole system that grinds every single one of us comes before God. We don't come to 151 alone in the face of God. Each of us will come alone and we won't be able to tell others they talked me into it, we won't be able to tell the party she said, we won't be able to tell NATO she ordered. That excuse won't do us any good, you know. And that's why it's very good to think about what we've been doing for so long while we still have time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24178	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24179	I listen to my young colleagues here, but I think when you look at history you should open both eyes, not one eye. First Afghanistan. Since '89. For nine years, the Russians killed 1 and a half million Afghans. It was Russian Vietnam. Now I hear here some of these views of the current situation global. Croatia has the population of Sidney perhaps or the suburbs of London. And what are the solutions in this world where the government is real politics. I don't know if anyone's ever heard in the 20th century that someone was digging a tunnel to Tajikistan, Uzbekistan. Where do these refugees run to? They're running to America. Have you ever heard of anyone running away from Florida or Cuba? Have you ever heard of someone digging a Berlin Wall tunnel in the opposite direction? Do you have three waves of immigration Australia, a functional country, of course the United States has racism there. And what happens when a black man kills a black man? Is that racism? Or would you rather live in Washington, DSI or South Africa? Try walking there in Nigeria in Lagos. And why are some countries functional? And what's the problem with us? We've been paying a little attention to what our problem is. Our problem is not an external problem, but an internal problem. I'll be done soon. Just one comparison. Black plague killed in the 14th century, black plague a third of Europe, 25 million people. And communism has killed from the Bolshevik Revolution to today about 110 million. And we need to think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24180	Thank you very much. The esteemed Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24181	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Glasnovic, I don't know what world you live in, but if you think that NATO alliance is fighting communism, I don't see... Well, you just said it. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24182	[[/Intruder Glasnović: I didn't say that. No, no, no. I didn't say that. It's your solution that you are now.]] [[Just please, let's not get off the bench.]] [[Don't do me... my friend!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24183	.../Intruder Reiner: Please! Please don't throw it out of the bench. Here you go, pal Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24184	I won't thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24185	Okay. The next replica is the esteemed Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24186	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Bunjac, reading this memo here, I remembered a great lie. As I followed the policy of 10, 15, I remember that attack on Iraq. I remember President Buch and that famous acronym of three WMD letters. At the time, media were used on a cruel path to try to portray Iraq as a country that has weapons of mass destruction. It's presented to the world as an excuse for invasion, the invasion is carried out. Today, however, we all know that this weapon was gone. Therefore, a deliberate lie has been invented to get oil, to get resources, and, if necessary, a lie will be invented again. Obviously, our good and fair NATO side is not the side of such propaganda by the Goebbels, nor is it strange for them to drag foreign alliances into war based on one lie and fiction. I think it's an impious act especially when it comes to the attack war. So I certainly won't support a memo like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24187	Thank you. The esteemed Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24188	Thank you very much. So, yeah, what's the problem with Iraq's esteemed colleague, Sincic? The problem is that there are 12% of the world's oil supply in Iraq. Who created Saddam Hussein? Who armed his army? US President Ronald Reagan almost fell into an Irangate affair that showed he was directly involved in it. And he also encouraged the Iraqis as well as the Sunite to attack Iran, because Iran was a Shiite country in which the Islamic Revolution was carried out because Iran dared to attack the US embassy in Tehran in 1979. And after they forced Iraq to attack Iran and after arming the Iraqi army to its teeth, then the Iraqi army took control of its bosses at one point and decided to run an independent policy. So basically, if America hadn't interfered in that area, Saddam Hussein would never have formed. It is not possible for the occupation army, or for external intervention to bring peace in any area. Take a look at the case of Napoleon's conquest of Spain, or if you don't hate Germany's conquest of Croatia too much. The people cannot be obeyed by any force. The guerilla will be created, people will start thinking for themselves, and they will make their conqueror's life miserable for so long until he finally realizes he has to retire. And that is why it is best for foreign states not to interfere with the internal problems of other countries except in extreme urgency, the ultimate necessity exclusively under the patronage of the United Nations, and not under the patronage of some military alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24189	Thank you very much. Now it will end up with five minutes of distinguished representative Ivan Pernar on behalf of the Living Wall Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24190	Thank you, Your Honor. In this agreement, I have not seen any elements of legal certainty. You'll be wondering why legal certainty, it's a matter of compensation, compensation for people killed, people who died, say in the Kornati. You all know about the Cornish tragedy, it was one terrible situation that resulted in these people being killed by a NATO bomb being dropped. We are now going to enable NATO to take action and exercise again, or whatever else in our country, and people are still lying in graves, their bodies have cooled down without their families getting satisfaction or damage. I'll mention their names. The dead were said to be six firefighters from the Šibenik Fire Department, Dino Klaric, Ivica Crvelin, Ivan Marinović, Marko Stančić, Gabriel Skocic and Hrvoje Strikoman. And another seven survived with severe burns per body of which five were transferred to Zagreb Tomislav Crvelin, Ante Crvelin, Josip Lučić, Carlo Ševerdija and Marinko Knezic, who soon died of severe burns. Last in the Split KBC on September 16th, Ante Juričev-Mikulin passed away. The only surviving firefighter Frane Lučić, after recovering from KBC Split, was released for home treatment. I'm talking about this for a reason, because America has one bloody history of sowing death all over the world, so their bombs apparently killed those young lives, and firefighters. It's a pity that our country has not found by this day if America is protecting against those in order to make damage claims, then why the state itself that allowed American planes to fly over our country, why at least our country didn't give compensation. The results of the investigation suggest that there was a temperature higher than 1200 degrees at a speed of more than 40 m/s, which is the result of the explosion from there, meaning of these or scattered explosives from these bombs. Every man who raises his hand for NATO pact for America is actually involved in this as Croatia participated in a crime in Libya. I am sorry for the fate of the Libyan people, he was exported with democracy, democracy that only enemies could wish for. In such a democracy that is spread by America we have seen in Libya in fact there is no democracy, in Afghanistan the puppet government is still today. The Taliban even reduced the production of the masquerade not to zero, now under NATO's rule of masquerade and rising. It caused a problem with heroin addicts all over the world, and now that's the problem again. But that's what America used to do when it was the Vietnam War. That's what they say. In cases with dead soldiers, they used to carry the same drugs to America, and we know that. That's when the CIA was said to be behind it. We can only assume who has fingers in it today, but in any case support this agreement that puts our country in a subordinate position and turns us into a polygon for the operation of imperialist forces can anything but not support both me and my colleagues from the club representatives. I'm sorry none of you have anything to say on this subject, for not participating in the debate. Probably because other than a few people like Mira Bulj, I take off my hat, but the vast majority of people unfortunately think it's irrelevant that this is none of their business. So it will be until they themselves or their loved ones are the victims of American bombs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24191	Thank you very much. Now there's something else we've learned. We have a few replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24192	Well, look, you've got me... last of ours at the final hearing, but it's all about this whole thing. I didn't claim that NATO alfa is an omega of security in the world, but at the same time your jargon a little confuses me here and confuses me, actually, when this one-eyed history of how we look at it again. I'm into theories, not conspiracies, but theories with facts, for example. why some countries are dysfunctional, it has nothing to do with NATO. Look at the Congo of another country, the whole of Africa is dysfunctional, and we're talking about what the core of our problem is. And the first problem here has never been done to enlighten the lustration on any element. I don't know Mr. Pernar your former jargon... and you look now I'm telling you you're watching the Internet up there, you're very interested in what I'm about to tell you. Here's an example of that, total hypnosis up there on the right. There's no point in telling him, his brain is resistant to bipolar disorder. Here I would say no. If only I had 40 more seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24193	We can't insult other MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24194	When I talk to someone, I look into my eyes and he looks at me. Let him talk to you, sir. You should learn something about... Mr. Pernar you understand what I'm saying. You're already sick of people here. That's where you're sitting, head of the Belarusian tomb. You've got hundreds of mass graves and you're silent. Your justice is selective justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24195	My colleague Glasnović, that's not even the subject. ... Col. Glasnović is neither a subject nor an insult. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My colleague, Glasović, I take your word for it. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] A fellow Glasnović. [[/Intruder Glasnovic: It's funny to him. It's a big show for you here, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24196	Yeah, okay. Well, that's not tolerance anymore. When people like this sit... hundreds of thousands of victims, that's funny to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24197	Comrade Glasnović, please sit down. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24198	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24199	No, I didn't give you my word. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative of the Bunjac, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24200	Article 238 has been injured. So this place has been here for days...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24201	Well, I took the word, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24202	For days, it has been said that MPs to each other, or representatives of the Living Wall, are addressing what you are constantly calling for, to be called psychic patients and bipolar disorder, which even professional services allow, without having any reaction. I was taken away yesterday because I allegedly insulted something, and I was talking about what Anna-Marie Petin mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24203	Comrade Bunjac, you said the Rules of Procedure were injured. I agreed with you, I gave a warning. I don't see any reason for further explications. The answer of the esteemed representative, John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24204	Oh, yeah. I listened to Mr. Glasnović. I'm sorry he's not here right now, and why? Because he's just repeating American propaganda and repeating the words of Barack Obama. Barack Obama said, "Immigrants don't go to Moscow in a bid of opportunity." However, he forgets that in absolute numbers Russia is another country in the world, the number of immigrants right behind the United States, which means that millions of people are looking for a better future in Russia. However, his colleague Glasnovic is not interested in statistics, he is not interested in scientific facts. He came here to bid for America and I say, repeat their thesis and constantly for all the guilty communists and I guess I'm also to blame for these war crimes of partisans and maybe some of the colleagues I don't know from the SDP, but it's all a story that unfortunately doesn't solve anything right now and has nothing to do with the topic of accession to this agreement that puts us in a subordinate position actually against America and NATO. It is my wish that Mr. Glasnović will one day realize that America does not wage wars around the world to spread democracy, freedom and human rights, but from much, much more ground motives than I often say, control over world resources because you will see that all these countries that America has bombed in the last 20 years are more or less everything with oil sources. So, the goal is to sell oil for dollars, and that's why the blood rivers spill with only one goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24205	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed Mira Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, you mentioned at one point that the Croats committed a crime in Libya. You're going to have to confirm these issues, so you're going to have to make an argument. As you know, many years after World War II, there was a criminal thesis against the Croats, raising the number of victims, each victim was given a drink, so here is the last time we see that Croatia is being vice versatile and in the Homeland War, it turns out that we were the aggressors, not the Chetniks who are now leading Serbia, Vučić and Nikolic who were Chetniks, the protagonists of Vojislav Seselj. I think that when you talk about the crime of the Croatian people, it's not a good way to speak. It's a terriblely bad thesis you said that the Croatian people committed a crime against the Libyan people. Do you know what you're saying? So if there was a crime somewhere, there must have been an individual. This imposition of the thesis on the crimes of the Croatian people is disastrous. All I know is that the Croatian soldier, the Croatian man wherever he was, is human. It's just a whip enclave, Mr. Pernar, when you leave, a slaughter ten times bigger than in Srebrenica would be. And many young Croats left their lives there. At the same time, 500 thousand Bosniaks were in Croatia when we were killed here as refugees. They had better conditions than Croatian refugees. Therefore, the Cornish tragedy is also a sad tragedy, but only about the victims to speak in this way is not good. The problem is that the states have not solved the problem of the victims of the tragedy in the Kornati, and it is not necessary to impose the thesis that the Croats are criminals, Mr. Pernar. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24207	Thank you very much. The esteemed John Pernar will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24208	Ma esteemed colleague Bulj, Croatia is a member of the NATO Alliance, yes or no? Yeah. Is the NATO model of war operations decision-making such that all Member States must agree on a specific military action? Yeah. So that means that Croatia said no, NATO would not be able to invade Libya. Fact number two, fact number two. Fact number three. Has the invasion or bombing of Libya been carried out without the mandate of the UN Security Council? Yes or no? Yeah. Without the mandate of the UN Security Council. And the fourth question, what are the consequences of this invasion? We don't have to explain them. If nothing else, was Croatia responsible for giving the green light for the action involved? So Croatia did not have to personally participate in the attack on Libya. It was enough to say yes, we give our consent. So Croatia is not what it meant to be held back. No, Croatia said yes. She also said that for the bombing of Libya, yes, Libya was violated by international law, there was aggression against the country, disaster against the Libyan people, war crime, and then you say: Croatia is not guilty. Well, I wish it wasn't guilty, where Croatia wasn't in NATO, where it's fortunate that it doesn't support American imperialism, where it's fortunate that our government isn't in the service of Washington, but that it is sovereign and that the government is in the interests of the country that you and its citizens have fought for in the war for which you, Mr. Bulji, your comrades fought in the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24209	Thank you. Next came the esteemed Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Pernar, I don't want to be justified with you, to justify any theories to you either, but I don't think it's enough that you in your address with NATO and America are doing it through firemen. I can tell you responsibly here as a fireman for 40 years that no one, but not one, no more intelligent expert has confirmed the thesis you're talking about. And on the contrary, the world's most intrinsic or recognizable expert, Vigas confirmed the thesis of an eruptional fire. The same is confirmed by domestic experts, but here is how we would not believe domestic experts can be trusted by world experts. So that theory doesn't suit you, normally you won't agree with it, it's your right, but then how are you going to look at the fact that in the world, firefighters are suffering from the same phenomenon of erupting fires, that in America, 50-odd firefighters have been killed in recent years by an erupting fire and even in a number of European countries by several firefighters? So now you can convince us here, but I'm telling you it's not good, it's not nice that you're talking about the biggest Croatian tragedy of firefighters in such a way that you're touching the bones of these people in such a way, untrue, incorrect and that you're doing your bidding with NATO and America through firefighters. I strongly protest on behalf of all firefighters.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24211	Thank you very much, dear John Pernar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24212	Dear colleagues from HDZ, I will read the following: The exclusive, firemen in the Kornati killed the NATO bomb that was dropped. The cause of the Kornati tragedy, the deaths of 12 Sibenik, Tisnjanski and Vodski firefighters is not any erupting fire, but probably because of the fire, the scattered explosive charge of one or two dropped bombs on its chance of CBU-87 from NATO planes after the Kosovo crisis in the spring of 1999, argues retired HV military officer, a participant of the Homeland War, Nedjeljko Pusic, a man of enviable knowledge of new military technologies, explosive assets and medical consequences for people exposed to their destructive action. The sensational knowledge of Pusic came after a persistent 7-month study that collected relevant military-medical and scientific documentation weighing 18 kg, which convincingly supports his thesis on the cause of tragic death. He says like this, I've read everything available about the eruptional fires, and I've realized that it has nothing to do with the Kornati tragedy, because for the erupting fire, the forest, the large amount of wood mass and oxygen, which in this case was not, and I've found a similar example in the literature. By surfing the Internet, I came across an Allied harvest document, namely that NATO was dumping bombs on the Adriatic, which is why, among other things, part of the Adriatic is also in Italian, where fish fund damage occurred. He summed up two and two and connected everything with a perfectly logical story. So, it's not my file, it's just that that kind of speed of spreading the fire 40 meters per second at the maquis is simply unconvinced and means in the world literature and he's found the database of the largest on all these erupting fires, or he hasn't found a single case. If you do, sir, I'm inviting you to take it out in public so that we can see if there are any more difficult facts for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24213	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24214	Thank you very much. I restrain my colleague Pernar because I am shaking my nerves to listen to you use the victims of the Kornati tragedy in your debate. This is inadmissible. We entered the 10th year of the Kornati tragedy, there were numerous debates, numerous were, numerous were trials, and it has not yet been established. Based on one article, one expert states that it was an expert whose testimony was also heard in these trials at the court and it was not found to be so. You're reading the names of all the victims. If you could only state it as a fact but you didn't have to read all the names and misread it, you'd pop out of a newspaper article. That's where you listed who belonged to which unit, whether they got or didn't get the funds. It is inadmissible to use victims of the Kornati tragedy in your discussions and manipulate your public opinion. You don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24215	Well, I'll read...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24216	I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24217	Oh, I only answered the line, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24218	I didn't give you my word, you answered after your colleague was Yurichev, but fine. Say it, but only when I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24219	Frane Lucic: We were burned by a NATO bomb. It says like this, everything was going really fast, and it's practically the heat that burned us. That Kornati grass couldn't have been. At the moment the heat rush came I took off my visor and saw in the distance the fire and a lot of smoke, I saw white, black and yellow smoke. I didn't hear the explosion, but I believe it wasn't the Kornati tragedy that caused it to be an erupting fire because there was no condition. It was the bomb NATO dropped after returning from Serbia. Our injuries are the same as the injuries to the CBU-87 bottle victims in Afghanistan. These are the only surviving firefighters of the Kornati tragedy. I think it all happened and half now before it was listed. I remember after the injuries we drank water and how we drank very quickly everything we had. I remember the panic that caught us and how we were trying to find help that wasn't coming. Six hours didn't go by until I was transferred to the hospital. He says, "I can't do this anymore without saying that they let us die on the rocks of Kornati," said Frane Lucic, who hopes the truth of the Kornati tragedy will begin to brighten up at the trial. However, he says, I expected the truth to be learned about what made us suffer and why it did not help us. But the whole system didn't help us. There's a lot of hiding out there, and I'm curious about what the army was doing on Kornat and there were supposed to be five hundred of them. In other words, where's the military report? Some testified about a rock that was black and halved and inside white, and the following days the soldiers removed it. They know the truth in Morh, but they won't tell it. But I know the truth will eventually win lies. There, dear lady, it is unfortunate that you continue to cover and protect those responsible for this tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24220	Thank you very much. With this, we will finally conclude a debate on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding and talk about everything and everything. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24221	The following is the final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Command of the Supreme Allied Commander for Transformation as well as the Supreme Command of Allied Forces in Europe in connection with providing support to the host state for the implementation of NATO military activities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.60. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the final proposal of the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Command of the Supreme Allied Commander for Transformation as well as the Supreme Command of Allied Forces in Europe in connection with providing support to the host state for the implementation of NATO military activities. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the 102 votes are in favour, 3 abstentions and 4 against the passed Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Command of the Supreme Allied Commander for Transformation as well as the Supreme Command of Allied Forces in Europe in connection with providing support to the host state for the implementation of NATO military activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24222	We will now move on to the following law, which is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, first reading, P.Z.BR.64. The proposal shall be made by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists on the basis of Article 2. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Miroslav Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24223	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues are before you a proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials who have two basic intentions. One intention is for this law to regulate both the coefficient and the base of the salaries of government officials in the Croatian Parliament. And another intention is to make it impossible to raise salaries for government officials created by recently adopted tax reform. So this law wants the salaries of state officials to be arranged so that the future coefficient and base of the salary account is determined by the Croatian Parliament and no longer by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its decision. The proposer believes it is correct and also mentioned on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision that the Croatian Parliament determines not only the pay coefficient of officials but also the basis for calculating the salaries of all officials both of the judicial and other state officials. According to an analysis of the Interparliamentary Union of September 2013 and on the basis of the data provided by individual parliaments, 58% of the parliaments replied that parliament is the body that determines the salaries of MPs and the proposed legislative change is also based on this survey or research. Secondly, this law lays down new coefficients for calculating the salaries of government officials. The adoption of the new Income Tax Act has established new income tax rates of 24% and 36% and the highest tax rate so far on income has been reduced to 36%. This change will take effect on 1 January 2017 and will condition a significant increase in salaries for employees especially those with salaries above 15 thousand kuna. In an indirect manner, reducing the highest income tax rate will result in higher salary in addition to other groups of employees. As promoters, we consider this unwarranted at this time, and therefore we propose new lower coefficients to account for the salaries of government officials in order to limit as much as possible the impact of tax reform on the increase in the salaries of officials. In this regard, the Proposer stresses that, because of the characteristics which have a significant impact on the amount of net salary of individual officials, for example, the number of abstentions, the height of the cuts, the relief for disability, the effect of the new billing of wages will differ in individual officials and it is not possible to fully avoid a partial increase in the wage of officials with the application of certain lower coefficients and existing basis for calculating the salaries of government officials. However, we would like to point out in particular that, with the application of the new lower coefficients, there will be a significant reduction in the salary growth of government officials in 2017. This brings me in addition to these materials you have obtained and the calculations of the net salary for all the coefficients of the officials in which the calculation of the net salary with the existing coefficients and base and those wages and the calculation that will result from the adoption of this law. What is important here to stress is that by changing this law that we intended to go by emergency procedure in order to come into force when and amending tax laws we want to make it impossible to increase the salaries of government officials more significantly. We believe that the growth of government officials' salaries at the time in which Croatia is today so we are still going through a crisis is not something that needs to happen and not only is it a bad message but it is about illogical behaviour. Most Independent Lists as a Proposer have no objection to government officials' salaries growing in some other tax reforms, in some other times when we have GDP growth, for example. of 4%, which means that we as state officials have made our jobs a condition that we can have higher salaries, but we think that there are no conditions for this today and we are looking for the support of all other parliamentary deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24224	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24225	Thank you very much. Your Honor, if I understand correctly you as a representative of the ruling majority want to pass this law with the help of the opposition. According to the state of the boards, you don't have the support of your coalition partners, and now I don't know how you're going to get through this law at all because we don't really owe you anything. When it was tax reform, you didn't vote for any of our amendments, let alone the law. You've all been sorely turned down. You, not only do you not accept our amendments or laws, but you take away both our MPs and thereby twist the will of the citizens, the electoral will. Citizens did not vote for individuals unless they were running as independent representatives, but voted for parties, but it would be nice to have them returned to those to whom these mandates belong if they had already decided to change sides. I don't understand how you think we should be observant to you, and you treat us in such a rough way. Of course this topic is important. We'll already be able to say in advance to back her up. But your relationship with the opposition would have to be just as different, not to say two-way, not to have just a one-way street, and you have a little left, a little right, and always to your advantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24226	Thank you. The honourable representative Miroslav Simic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24227	Dear comrade Bunjac, we are not looking for opposition support here. We ask for support from MPs regardless of which political parties they came from. As far as we are concerned at this point as a proposing and as part of the ruling majority, it is generally known that we and our partners have a different view of the salaries and status of officials. However, this was also clear in our negotiations, so as some compromise solution, instead of cutting our salaries, what MOST wanted from the beginning for those who did not do their job, we came to punish those who did not come to work at the vote. It's a compromise solution and we've hardly agreed to it. We do not think that it is quite good, but our HDZ colleagues are certainly not fully satisfied with it. The compromise carries it so that everyone is partially satisfied or dissatisfied. But to get back on the subject. So we're calling on the MPs to back us up on this, we're not asking you to be observant, not by any chance. If you don't agree with this, we're not asking you to back it up. If it's okay with you, we're glad you're gonna back it up. When the amendments on tax reform were voted on, we clearly stood behind even some of the amendments we supported, and those we did not, we did not vote for them. It's the natural behavior of each of us agents. Each of us has a part of his responsibility and you as a representative have a part of your responsibility. And if you have something against this law, don't support it against this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24228	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Simic, I'll ask you five questions. First, are you part of the ruling coalition? Second, are you part of the opposition? The third question is whether your president of the Most Independent List party is the president of the Croatian Parliament? Third, is Mr. Ivan Kovacic the vice-president of the government of the Republic of Croatia? And a fourth, fifth pardon. Why don't you settle this at the Government at the U.S. cabinet or this is just one of your spins and cheap pulsism that you're selling today at four o'clock in the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24230	The answer of the distinguished representative Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24231	Dear colleague Klarin, let me just say, I'm not going to answer all these questions. I don't think they're even set up with the intention of answering them. I know you're not comfortable having this debate, which you're going to have to vote on. And then the easiest thing to say is, well, yeah, it's populism, MOST's pulsism. You have a chance to say I'm not a populist. I don't think this is populism and I won't support this. Or you have a chance to say, I don't think this is populism. I think this is fair, I think this makes sense, and that's why I'm voting. Okay. You may feel a little worse about this must be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, but here is the job of our representatives, for that they chose us. And we, despite being part of the ruling coalition, think we have the right as a club to submit our proposals to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24232	Thank you. The next replica is Martha Luc Polance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24233	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. I, too, as well as my colleague Klarin, cannot ask you why you are going with amendments to this law when two weeks ago, you voted for tax reform as part of the ruling coalition, which is why you exclusively favoured those who have large salaries, who have large incomes and that you have not looked at in any way, you have seen citizens living off minimum salaries. And now you're going through changes to the law I just have to notice it just to sensitize the public and to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament, and it is known that you could make a decision within the Government to cut wages. And what happens now after the amendments and additions to this law? You are creating a paradox where you are not touching the salaries of directors of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand, you are reducing the coefficients and leading to a situation where the President of the Constitutional Court with a smaller basis and a lower coefficient will have a lower salary than the President of the Supreme Court or the Chief State Attorney. You also degrade the role of prime minister who will now have less income than the Supreme Court president or chief state attorney. So if you're changing the coefficients then you have to comply with the other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24234	Thank you. The respected Miroslav Simic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24235	Dear colleagues, as regards tax reform and its intensity, that individual taxpayers, and I'm talking about people, so they pay a certain amount of tax and pay a smaller amount of tax, which makes them pay higher wages. We don't mind that we don't have anything against it, but we strongly advocate it and support that bigger salaries are paid by all those who are doctors, IT experts, engineers, people who work in the real sector. We are for that. We are against the fact that state officials who are responsible for the situation in the Republic of Croatia with these tax changes, and not by reacting through this law, raise their own salaries. We're against it right now. In some future, when we have different statistical indicators relating to the state of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, we will not be against it. If we have to, we'll just initiate these changes. As for any other salaries you are instructed to make, give your suggestions if you think that someone else needs to follow the corrections, we will discuss it and we are prepared to support all good suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24236	Thank you very much. Next is the esteemed Miro Bulj, replica. First the esteemed Nicole Grmoy and then the Miro butt.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24237	Your Honor, Vice President. Here's a fellow Simic, you've made a good point in your debate, in fact, that there's only one thing here, who agrees with us as parliamentary deputies, and who doesn't agree with that. All the other debates are just an attempt to turn off the topic, avoid this debate because some are not responding and it is not at all that we are looking for opposition support here. We're looking for the support of all the MPs in this House, we're looking for their opinion on this subject, what they think they're eating correctly, is the office to raise our wages. The opposition tried to essentially stop the growth of salaries to doctors leaving Croatia, IT experts, we are not for this. We're about to raise their wages, and our salaries aren't growing, and here it's just a question of how all the MPs in this House are going to ask themselves on this one and the basic question, are you willing to make us pay at this point? What happens when the indicators are different, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24238	Thank you very much. The respected Miroslav Simic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24239	So with your replica you reminded me of one thing, which is the SDP's initiative at its press conference when they said that they were against the fact that people who had salaries of 15 thousand kuna who had previously said doctors, engineers or IT experts that they didn't need pay raises, then I was on a radio show where again the SDP representative said it wasn't the official SDP's position that he apologized to the Croatian public for it and now here he heard again about the parliamentary pay phone or the assembly benches of a colleague who said that we didn't support this proposal. It is clear to me that colleagues had had within the party elections that this could have been a confusion in their ranks in attitudes and everything, but I would really like to hear during this debate that SDP's position, which was ultimately the official position of the SDP, gave them against the growth or reduction of tax burden on doctors, engineers, IT experts or not against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24240	Thank you. And the next replica of the esteemed Mira Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24241	Thank you very much. Comrade Simic, here's a good one. You've said Parliamentarians will vote on this proposal, for example. Here I am also a signer of the Living Wall proposal on the Immunological Institute not only me from the MOST Club, some have signed who were there, some are not so that each individual will be able to vote as he wishes. The fact is, we have some problems, business directors like that were mentioned. you know in the case of Croatian forests how many bonuses were received by the director of Croatian forests, while thousands of workers fired and threw them on the road and were missing with great results of absolute monopolies in forests. So getting into history is kind of what colleagues want isn't good. This is one of the proposals to try to put in place the moment in which we are located is whether all people have their eyes on the Croatian Assembly and of course every parliamentary representative will be on the conscience whether they will vote on this or not and every club of parliamentary representatives or 15 parliamentary deputies can make their proposal. Otherwise, it is known that it is not good, and it is known that the MPs vote on the click or what it says from the Living Wall when they are in power on one they are, when they are in opposition to two and so we change. When the case was the Living Wall, of course, the Most will accept some amendments to their proposals that were made the other day, and I, too, voted in favour of the Living Wall proposal without remorse. Therefore, I see no problem here but that although this... amendments can always be tabled and... thank you beautiful or ruling.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24242	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And the first came to the Living Wall in the name of which the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24243	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Once upon a time when I was a child, I naively believed that the highest salary in the country was the president of the state, or those who rule the people so that they would have the highest wages, so I imagined it. And now that I've come to the Parliament and heard all the pay in Croatia, I'm really startled. So both mayors and mayors and professors of the Faculty of Economics and some others, who pay two, three salaries, pay one, sign a contract with themselves, the other gets from the state. I've also learned that I don't know the management of banks like the CNB, HBOR, the Peace funds have salaries of three, four times as much as we do. I've also learned that they're shared in state-owned severance companies I don't know the parliamentary salary that can't be obtained for a full-time job, that you can't get as much as someone gets severance for a short period of time spent in a public institution. And now that you're still going to compare your pay with tax evasion and the tycoons and those who make money to secret accounts, we might argue that the MPs are really the right way to make poor people. However, regardless of what is so, we support the idea that the salaries of parliamentary deputies are not increasing, and we will also submit amendments to reduce them. And why is that? Because we Parliamentarians need to represent a role model in this country. We must set an example. We are the highest legislative authority. We set up government and all these administrations, and ultimately we decide local administrations. We're facing the public just like no one else. And these salaries and privileges that we have they have separated us from the people. They've separated us from him, and the people have made it clear to us for years. And why is he telling us this? Not because these salaries would therefore be somewhat wordlessly high, but because the salaries of most Croatian citizens are insufficient for normal life. That's the problem. They attack our salaries for a reason to say, "You forgot about us." We don't concern you anymore. I know, I've listened to many of you here before the election. Many who said, "The pay of the Parliament is too high." I'm gonna stand for it to shrink. And now? And you were saying from MOST that you would reduce to 9.999 kuna as in Konzum, one kuna less to make it look even more beautiful. One nice, excuse me. But now that you've come to Parliament, you've forgotten all that well. Now the pay's OK. We can even increase them. Each and every one of you will find it, can't wait to start arguments as to why the pay needs to be increased. Well, it needs to be aligned with this, it needs to be aligned with that, this is a technical problem, that, you know. He can't wait for this excuse festival right now why we need to raise our salaries. And you know when, when we're all together, here's me, you forget how citizens live. Let me tell you how they live, here I try to communicate with citizens every day and find out stories. I find out that in one shoe factory, workers work for a minimumer, but in order to achieve the norm, they have to stay at work for two, three hours longer every day if they want to get that minimumer at all. They work overtime without being paid. They work Saturday for free, no pay break, no hot meal paid, and when they see these half-empty constituency benches here, they're pissed. They are saddened that we sometimes increase our incomes as with tax reform, and we do not want to pay attention to their problems. I know of a food factory with no windows or air conditioning where workers have to pack food on Sundays. Sundays. At temperatures like in the desert and who falls unconscious they just carry it out. I know of people who haven't bought one piece of clothing in ten years, one single. They borrow clothes from their cousins, from their moms, from their brother. The younger child inherits from the elderly. I know of people who eat bread and marmalade every day, buy themselves a jar, that can of marmalade and a milk of 365 days a year. I know of a mother who cried all night and didn't sleep because she didn't have anything to give her child for breakfast in the morning. I know of a Croatian defender who wrote to me at 6:00 in the morning, and he didn't sleep either, that he was going to kill himself because his children had grown up and had already become adult, and he had never taken to the sea in his life. They never took a summer. All he gave them was the payment of directors and the payment of food. That was it. It is the life of an average Croatian worker. 70% of workers in Croatia do not even make an average salary. And what's wrong with us? What will your holiday tables be like? Will something be missing on them? Will you get Christmas presents, will your children be left without gifts under the tree? What do you need it for? Say it! To go skiing? For the new Rolex? Which is why it is necessary to raise the salary I do not know of the president of the Parliament or the prime minister, however, the presidents by 2 thousand kuna. How do we damage her if we don't give it to her now? How do we break her standard? And people see it and what kind of message do we send them? What are we telling them? We'll raise your pensions by 15 kuna and your salary by 53. Let's remember Pope Francis who took off that golden cross and put on the iron, the other day all the bishops changed the cross? And why is that? Because all that does is the person who is at the top of the pyramid, who has power in his hands it all multiplies, thousands of examples being followed. And what kind of message do we send now if we raise our wages to those who work bloodyly to survive for the naked existence, to eat, we don't increase those same wages at the same time? So it's important that each of us wonders whether we came here to make money, whether we came here to make ourselves some kind of pleasure, some pleasures, or if we came here to be people's representatives and to serve our people. We trust our citizens, they chose us here and they have huge expectations from us. Why do we think we shouldn't follow their wishes? I guarantee you that the day we finally accept to be a real participant in society, that our people will carry us like a little bit of water on their palms. You'll be elected to every election you ever make. The people will protect you. Probably won't need a Living Wall anymore, our MPs will plant vegetables and fruit, I'll write books. Because maybe one other part of the MPs won't know how to deal with anything else. But I want to tell you that we need to communicate with our citizens in a way that we can see their problems and show compassion, solidarity and empathy. That's what they want. They don't want us to argue for days about not knowing an article of the law, regardless of accessing a protocol or something, etc., they want a little attention, just a little attention. They want to see that we're with them. For this reason I invite you to seek your reward in that you are here at all, it is your reward, it is your honor, the highest salary. Let us not again participate in something that will not serve us, something that will further compromise the trust of the people in the institutions of this country, in the parliamentary representatives, in the Parliament, something that five will deceive tears and anger, among many Croatian citizens. Let us remain modest regardless of what some of us will have, perhaps more pay than a parliamentary representative, we raise our wages at the moment, we raise our wages the moment we eradicate poverty, when we disappear from homelessness, when we unblock citizens' accounts, and when with the wages, with a fair salary, we can pay for the directorship, we can buy food and the powers of our child without someone having to borrow, without someone having to go to minus, without having to wake up sleepless nights and live in care and in constant fear of the future and desire, a constant subconscious desire to travel somewhere very, very far away where there is a much better world than we have here right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24244	Thank you very much. There's a whole series of replicas on your display. Let's start in a row. She's the first one to honor Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24245	Your Honor, Vice President. Here is my colleague Bunjac, I thank you for supporting this proposal, and you feel that given the moment in which our citizens find themselves, it is not right for our parliamentary representatives to grow salaries and that is the same as the intensity of this proposal. You've stayed on your word. We're what you're saying showed off the works. I am the deputy mayor of the city in which city councilmen have no compensation for their work, in which the president of the city council gave up a fee of 2500 kuna for the post. I'm the deputy mayor of the city where members of the boards and boards of directors don't receive any compensation. I am the deputy mayor of the city where I worked parallel to the school and was a volunteer in the city and gave up a fee of 2500 kuna. I'm the deputy mayor of the city where, on my personal request, I was asked to be paid 40% and worked for 7 thousand kuna until I came to this assembly. I am one of the people of the political option that constantly requires that the privileges of parliamentary deputies be reduced and in these demands we have managed to fight to at least punish, or punish, and I hope that we will get support for this, not attending Friday's sessions. We chose not to be, not to have someone for three days as a parliamentary representative and then to exercise the privilege of 6+6. Here I am the parliamentary representative of the political option, which proposes a bill that will not increase the salaries of parliamentary deputies. And I am also the parliamentary representative of the political option that will support this proposal for a reduction. If we're going to get support for that in this House, we'll see about that. Are we going to get support for this proposal not to raise salaries to parliamentarians that we will also see.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24246	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed Branimir Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24247	Thank you very much, dear colleague. All right, now you've been singing your own praises like this. I don't mind, I've said no matter your incorrect attitude towards the opposition we'll support it. We have citizens' interests ahead of party interests. However, when we talk about how you are so very advanced and human, there is, however, what one stone in a shoe says, and that stone in a shoe is that you, before you submitted this bill, installed on the authority of a party that doesn't at all support this bill of yours and which has carried out a tax reform that will make a small blow to the standard of living, starting with the purchase of a car, starting from paying taxes on real estate, than I don't know more expensive coffee in a cafe, etc. So you're actually not 100% honest. You submitted a legislative proposal and you could have created conditions 15 days ago that the proposal did not have to be submitted at all means during the tax reform vote. Now it's a small situation where I leave you simply to the court of law. Let the public decide whether you are in this completely honest or perhaps this is somewhere hidden and a certain party interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24248	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24249	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, I think this is the beginning of a kind of thing where we could go out with each other a little bit when it comes to good ideas, and that's how we're going to support that bill that's good. It's a shame that in so-called. We did not make tax reform any more because the Income Tax Act could increase the tax rate to those rudely high wages and could avoid even higher wages being rudely high. But what's there is. I will also support the idea of the SDP to get rid of the minimumer in another way. The SDP told the Legislative Committee that it would support this law if MOST supports a new law that would address the minimumer in a different way. I will support whether MOST supports that minimumer or not, as I will support SDP's law because I think it's good. I also expect to support some of the following laws that come with regard to margins, regarding preventing enforcement, so all that is good for our society. Well, I have to say that I come from an association called the Franak Association, which, by doing five years, has reduced citizens' debts by a total of 6.5 billion kuna with the help of this House of Commons here. So I congratulate all those who sat in the Croatian Parliament, who voted the Law on the conversion of CHF loans but it certainly wouldn't have been if it hadn't been for the Franak Association. So there is this one synergy of various parts of this society that can contribute to a better society. So I appeal to all of us to support all good ideas in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24250	Thank you. The esteemed Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24251	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Alexic, that you are right in the sense that this should therefore be the first step not the only step that should follow the other steps, but certainly the proposal for this increase of minimumers is also going on but should therefore generally go on to allow citizens to live normally. There are therefore a number of ways in which a fair redistribution could be made in society. So you yourself mentioned some of these possibilities. Here we will also have Professor Lovrinovic's amendment to create some income that will benefit the citizens. But we here now have to win this first battle, so the real battle is to keep the salaries of parliamentary deputies at an existing level possibly decrease and that battle will be very difficult, I'm afraid. But only delaying the procedure, the draft law by emergency procedure has shown in a certain way how the Parliament breathes. So I hope that during this debate we will also succeed in encouraging some other representatives, some other clubs to side with justice, to the side of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24252	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Mira Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24253	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, you said that the parliamentary representative, the representatives of MOST, could have changed more things and on these salaries, but it is a fact and don't forget that there weren't 12 Most people there would have been no extraordinary choices and you wouldn't be in this Parliament right now. You may not understand that, but here's to not repeat it again. Because we didn't want to get ahead of ourselves like some of the only options that were with you at the club together. on your list. You're calling MOST because it's in collaboration with HDZ and those who wanted to overrule the government without a choice where you wouldn't be sitting right now that's fine with you? As far as you're concerned, what do you mean, we're not MPs? I personally got 11,000 votes, I don't consider myself less valuable than anyone else. I know that I live in a seven-member family and that I'm the only one who's ever had a reception before and now and that I have an adult who doesn't work. I know that I live among these hard-lived people, because I was with them every day and before I was in Parliament, I was on their side and the workers of the Dalmatian women who were from my family, who stayed on the road and raised me in a peasant family where I had to deal with agriculture, sell these agricultural products. And that's how he raised us. I haven't had a vacation since I was 18, and neither have my children. Therefore, you must not only take yourself for the right of the Living Wall to be the only ones who are the people's representatives. I've signed your proposals, voted for your amendments. You can say it's not true, but it's a fact. So I think this proposal and your amendment that I'm going to vote for as it is, I'm going to support it. Here's the front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24254	Thank you very much. Well, I didn't say that we're the only people's representatives, but I said that we should all just become one. As for you, the truth is that you vote according to your conscience, but the fact is that most of your representatives do not follow you. And now, as far as this predication of yours is concerned, it means you claim that, I don't know, the MPs change Croatia wanted to make a big deal out of it. I don't know that. I've never seen them act in any way by authority. I saw that he was a professor. Lovrinovic voted against the government when it was, and you signed public records, gave me no statements that you would not go left or right. That's where you got the voter's trust. That's what you got. And you got the responsibility, but you know you can't go back, you're not going back that easy anymore. This may be your attempt to maneuver, to maintain another part of that position you had before the election. But you will suffer the consequences of tax reforms and budgets for 2017. I wouldn't want to be in your skin, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24255	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24256	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Bunjac, I think that to the people and we should all be MPs because we represent the people and not the Croatian Parliament, so I think our name is MPs. I don't think the people's biggest problem is the pay of Parliamentarians or MPs, but what happens in this House of Highs, sometimes made of circuses. In this House which is essentially a voting machine because everything that comes from the other side of Mark's square, the government here is being adopted. No amendments are adopted. There's too much pulsism in this house, so I think this MOST proposal, too. I am sorry that the MOST Representatives Club did not support the proposal of MPs, the HSS Representatives Club, which is an increase in the mining rent from 10 to 13% where Hungarians would make me pay our budget more than they would draw from our budget. And I haven't heard the financial impact of this proposal either, so I think it might be good to talk about it. Salaries are always disputable to be 10,000 kunas, they'll be big. I am not saying this because from my perspective it is no matter what my salary will be in the Croatian Parliament and it is very small about publishing the Croatian Assembly towards me. Because I'm unlike Mr. Bull today, too, so I can live without this salary. I think that we should work more on Parliament's dignity, be serious here, be really people's representatives, not engage in populism, but represent the interests of the Croatian people. And how much the extraordinary election cost, I think it's a few dozen times more than there's gonna be savings on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24257	Thank you. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24258	Dear colleague, if Parliament really is a voting machine, then it's really sad. If we here, therefore, only fulfill what is required of us outside this House's building, then the question is whether we deserve any pay at all, and in particular pay this big. So we should be brave enough to represent the truth regardless of what some great powers tell us and let's say here yesterday we had such a beautiful opportunity. I believe that all 151 advocates in the depths of the soul thought that the Law on the Police still had to be accepted, that is, to give severances to police officers. But we'll see at the vote that it won't eventually come. And on that side, we must all ask ourselves about these salaries and our own responsibility. The wages really aren't big. We see that some people have come to the Parliament and have not taken the council's salary, which means that their salaries are higher elsewhere. But the public, I guarantee you 90% of the public thinks that the salaries of parliamentarians should not be increased. And if we're honest and we're really open-hearted then we'll say that right now is not a good time. Maybe in a few years, when the others have one, then we'll have one. And no one will pay much attention to that then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24259	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24260	Thank you, Vice President. I listened very carefully to you. I consider this all gentlemen pulsism. This is a story that's been told for 25 years. We never slipped and said what was the problem? It is not a problem of the Croatian Parliament, it is not a problem for Croatian parliamentarians to pay. The problem is the failure in this country. Therefore, the people are poor in public procurement, selling INA, selling Croatian insurance, selling and converting. That's also why citizens are poor. We can't take a salary here in the Parliament again the citizens will be poor and that's not the solution. I don't think that's the solution, and if it's true I want the wages not to be increased in the Parliament, I support it. But, gentlemen, I'm a businessman, I haven't gone on vacation in two years, I'm watching my workers pay their wages, and I'm giving them more and more to live well, and I'm not ashamed of it in the city where I live. However, the mass of craftsmen, the businessman cannot pay the salary of his worker. Not guilty but simply cannot fail or close or kill even some people, that's the problem, gentlemen. It's not a problem for us to popularize whether this is and here's what Bull just said, so gentlemen we've been to the Most. So why didn't the Lovrinovic be accepted as a minister or anything at the Most? They didn't want capable people. They didn't want to. Well, then you tell me if that man's okay or not. As far as we're losing in public procurement, here's Lovrinovic calculated, out of 200 thousand 10 billion 2 billion kuna savings. Has anyone accepted? Well, he didn't accept it, and we're saving up, I don't know, he's not gonna take this one for this, so that's nothing, that's populism clean, that's pure pulsism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24261	Thank you. The esteemed Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24262	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Misic. Indeed, it is true of the parliamentary salary in government budgets to represent a specific item. Like you said, we're not getting paid in this country, it wouldn't have changed significantly. But this is not about the financial level, it's about the symbolic level, and that's what's important to understand, that we are actually sending a message here that we will no longer encourage those who have come here to satisfy our own material interests and personal pleasures, but that we are going to be looking for people who will work hard here and really fight honestly for the good of the people. Next thing you know, the state of the country. Yes, the state of the country I am also sure that in this state the judiciary works, that the salaries and contributions are paid in time and that they are not paid in hands, that overtime is paid, that no one in this country would ask what the salaries of parliamentary deputies are, no one. People wouldn't care about that at all. They are only interested in this question because they send us a strong message that they are at the very limit of endurance that they can no longer, that they are desperate and, as I said in their own exposure, that they want to leave this beautiful country. So does this Croatia have no resources, no conditions for creating a little paradise on earth. So look at what kind of land we have, what kind of water, what climate, and we live so hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24263	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you have said in a number of circles in your discussion as we now send a message if we raise our wages, which we need together, you appeal to us not to do so, and all the time you are talking to us here. You see, a colleague of Bunjac's message was sent two weeks ago when it was voted on tax reform. It's not us. It is the Most and HDZ, they raised MOST's ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia raised their hands for a package of laws that increased salaries to government debtors, their MPs here voted for tax reform and made it possible for these salaries to grow, and then hypocritically as they do all this time, after some time they are now sending legislation to cloud the eyes of Croatian citizens like they are struggling not to increase those wages. And they increased them along with HDZ. Well, everyone's got a big bump in the bush. So your government, your government and HDZ don't bring in the regulation and cut those salaries, like the former SDP government did. You can nod here as long as you want. You together raised your hand for tax reform with your HDZ partners to raise those salaries. And we here today don't decide whether they grow or not. They're growing, and it's in effect now that the pay has grown. And MOST colleagues are always angry when someone tells them they brought it, but they brought it. We don't call MOST what he's in collaboration with HDZ like they say. It's their natural partner from day one. They've been running there since day one. It's not right for them to sell demagogues here by noon in Mark's square to make one decision, and then on the other side of Mark's square, they act like big moralists and propose laws that should kill the laws they've already made. Here's a colleague of Bunjac, even though you've already pointed to these things in your replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24265	Thank you. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24266	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you need to be honest with me and say that your government of the SDPs I mean not specifically you on several occasions and reduced the salaries of parliamentary deputies. I remember as long as the government of Ivica Racana was I think twice the salary was reduced by parliamentary deputies. Also when you were raising your salary, when, a year ago, you immediately passed the regulation that left your salaries to politicians at the same level. And on that side, you deserve praise. What you might be able to do further when we talk about this topic is the fact that some mayors, mayors, have more salaries than parliamentary representatives, and even ministers, and they are also not only in the HDZ and MOST ranks but also in your ranks. There have been some unpleasant things about this affair, you have relatively well resolved some of them, so here I hope that this law will affect and that the situation at local level will also be slightly improved and that we are all carrying together a part of our responsibility, but I am especially repeating this is a priority. Assembly representatives are above all of them, and parliamentary representatives must set an example. Because you know there's one story that's very interesting when you tell your kid, and why are you watching so many TVs, why are you so on your cell phone, why are you so much on your computer? And your child, as you know, always answers the same answer: And why are you, Dad, so much on your cell phone, on your computer, why are you so much in front of the TV? Thus, in some ways we can understand this relationship between the parliamentary representatives and the people as well as the family relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24267	Thank you. The next club is the one to change Croatia in the name of which the distinguished representative Marin Škibola will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24268	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Well, here's the proposal for MOST law, and I found some contradictions and illogicalities, and, above all, populistism. It says: In an indirect way, reducing the highest income tax rate will result in a higher salary than other groups of employees. And now this is important: The Proposer considers it unwarranted that government officials especially representatives in the Croatian Parliament pay significantly higher wages after having previously amended the law that reduced the tax rate to high wages. So, populistism is because special representatives in the Croatian Parliament stand out. So are representatives in the Croatian Parliament the main anomalies and the main problem of this system and this society. In the public sector, we have so many who are obstructing the development of this country, and in the Parliament they were able to propose good laws, to be adopted good laws, but then they were obstructed at other levels of government. We cannot blame all MPs for everything, and in this proposal, the laws particularly highlight them as the biggest problem. And why is that? And why is that? It's the pulsism. Furthermore, it is in the opinion of the Proposer on a kind of conflict of interest. But what conflict of interest? I wasn't in a conflict of interest. I voted against this tax reform. Therefore, not all parliamentary representatives are in conflict of interest, so I don't think that stands for me either. The whole tax reform is based on the fact that everything goes to the benefit of those who have high incomes. And that's the fact that they own high capital. What about the bank's salaries, the manager of some management? Do you know how much the middle manager in some foreign business bank has to pay? Ten thousand euros, not to mention members of the administration, etc. Therefore, the law that will limit wages to government officials now is nothing more than dealing with the consequences, not the cause of the problem. So, the cause of the problem had to be prevented in tax reform itself, and not now some subsequent solutions that are actually peripheral in nature, and I don't think they solve the crucial, which is that the richer they become, the richer they become, the poorer they become, the poorer they become, and that's the division of society. Regardless of what is said, I will support every proposal to freeze salaries to government officials for moral reasons, and I think it's moral and so is this. But what is important to point out that MOST was sincere, would not support tax reform in this form, and now seek to resolve the political damage to proposals that do not include those that have much higher salaries than state officials, which I have already stated. That's so much from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24269	Thank you. We have a few replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24270	Dear fellow Schribol, here's just a brief explanation. As regards the reference here, it is about the fact that we, as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, voted on certain laws and tax reform which consequently increases our wages because it reduces our tax burden. This is why MPs are particularly prominent. We do not think that representatives are some part of the Croatian society that should be hit the most. Surely we have many times more problems in public companies than in these parliamentary benches, but this law now solves state officials, or their status. As for the manager of private companies, as you said, some middle managers and their salaries, we are in favour of reducing these people's taxes and, consequently, getting paid. That is why we voted for this tax reform among other things. When our vote for tax reform is connected and the illogicality of such a single legislative proposal, I must say that such relationships do not stand at all, so MOST supports tax reform that reduces the tax burden on citizens who pay the tax. But MOST does not support that public officials in the tax reform also have a lower tax burden. We don't support this, but we can't support tax reform because of it, but we can do exactly what we're doing now, on the one hand, support tax reform, and on the other hand, by amending the Law on State officials, affecting that the salaries of government officials don't grow, that's what we did in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24271	Thank you. The esteemed representative of the Scibol will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24272	Thank you, Your Honor. But the coefficients are shrinking, so not just, i.e. According to your proposal, not only the parliamentary deputies, but you here point out the special parliamentary representatives. In my opinion, it's just a matter of populistism. Your second answer to my exposure is that it's simply a matter of decomposition of society. So in tax reform, you supported that bankers grow even more wages and why you didn't tax bankers and then help those who didn't have money out of them. For what reason did this tax reform not take place in this direction, so that society would no longer be distributed to the poor and the rich? There, that's my grudge.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24273	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24274	My dear colleague, this brief exposure of yours has two errors in it. First, the first mistake, you're discussing this bill here as something serious, this is completely unserious. Secondly, you say the law will limit the salary growth of government officials. No, he's in first reading, tomorrow's our last day of work, we're breaking up, we'll meet again after January 15th. This law should apply from 1 January. That's impossible. So one of the most common MOST-slamperas agreed with HDZ, let's cheat on people a little bit more, we haven't fooled them much yet, let's cheat them a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24275	Representative Ivica Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24276	Your Honor. Comrade Schibol, about your exposure to that law will be nothing about what they have brought, it will remain the same. The causes of all the problems in this country so far are the National Bank, which has allowed our citizens to be robbed and put into such an unspeakable position. And this is what we said was pure pulsism. Of course, banks should have been taxed, their profits reduced, their interest to watch them cut, not let the robbery of citizens be allowed. We are now in one... , we don't know how to get out of this, then it's best to bring some amendments populistly and try to solve something for the public to hear that we still want to solve something and in fact it's all insecure until the monetary and fiscal policies in this country dress up the way it's supposed to be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's clear to everyone that nobody's going to touch it and nobody's going to try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24277	The answer to the replica is "Skibol's representative."
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24278	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, so that Mr. Micic, MPs are not the main problem in this country. So like I said, there are those MPs and a good part of the MPs who are really responsible for doing this job and we can't represent the people as if these parliamentary representatives are the main anomaly of all the problems we have in the state. So these problems in the system are much bigger and they are being obstructed by all levels of government and not just here in parliament. So pointing out that special advocates need to freeze wages is for me populism. There, I've got nothing more... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24279	I'd like to thank Agent Skiboli. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, who reported for participation in their representative Marija Jelkovac's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24280	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on the obligations and rights of state officials with a final bill in first and second reading and, in fact, the public known as the MOST's proposal to cut salaries for state officials. As the proposer pointed out himself the aim of this law is to arrange the salaries of state officials so that future and basics and coefficients for calculating the salaries of state officials are determined by the Croatian Parliament. And not as if, so far, the basis for my decision has been determined by the Government and the coefficients have been established by law. However, the most important newspaper in this proposal is the setting of new lower rates for state officials so that pay officials do not grow on the net from 1 January of next year and, with the application of the new Income Tax Act, that is, by applying the proposed new coefficients, they would grow significantly less and thus limit the impact of tax reform in this part exclusively on the increase in salaries of government officials. I should point out by considering this proposal that the salaries of civil servants and passengers are governed by the Law on State officials and tenants and that, in this case, the coefficients are established by the Labour Names and Complication Coefficients Regulation and the basis is established by the decision on the level of the base for the calculation of salaries for civil servants and tenants and amounts to 5 thousand 108.84 kuna gross. Furthermore, in the case of payment of mayors, mayors and municipal mayors, salary also means multiple coefficients and basics for the calculation of wages increased by those 0.5% for each completed year of employment and a total of 20% and the basis and coefficients for them are determined by the representative body. So we have really different salaries at local levels and where some are much higher than the salaries of government officials. Furthermore, the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers regulates the salaries of judicial officials where the basis is 4443,958 June gross and the highest coefficient seems to me to be 7.14. Why am I counting all this? Because we believe that public officials' salaries should not be regarded as a single segment in the entire pay system for those who make up the state administration and local self-government as one whole in the public sector. The HDZ Club believes that a more thorough analysis of salaries throughout the system should be made and then to determine how to regulate between others then and the salaries of government officials so that we do not, in this way, in a hasty procedure, actually create imbalances and in some cases and illogical situations that, for example, a civil servant has a higher salary than his superior only because he is a state official. What kind of message are we sending? If the directors of certain public enterprises have a higher salary than the public officials. The HDZ Club further considers that, instead of determining the specific amount of the pay base, the mechanism establishing the basis in accordance with either economic or economic developments should be considered so that not every time that this base is changed is now proposed in absolute terms, the law should be amended. The ratio of the coefficients between certain government officials should also be considered as there are certain illogicalities in view of their duties and responsibilities. Furthermore, the overall wage system in the public and state sectors should be considered in order to balance relations with respect to the complexity of jobs and the responsibilities of all the duties and salaries to be received for them. Popular measures are never the best and most effective measures that can sometimes have the opposite effect of the desired. The Croatian State and the Government must create conditions for strengthening institutions and, in this respect, it is certainly an important human factor, i.e. a quality and professional administration that should be adequately paid for its work. The HDZ Club is not in principle opposed to the first part of the proposal of this law where the basis and coefficients would be determined by law by the Croatian Parliament. However, because of all of the above, they cannot accept such a reduction in the salary coefficients of government officials for the reasons that we have cited and which would lead to imbalances in all other wages ratios throughout the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24281	Thank you, Representative Jelkovac. Representative Miranda Mrsic reported first to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's what HDZ thinks of this law and how many HDZ representatives have left two women to fight with this law that it has, is short but in principle this law is a coward's egg. Because it is taking away the government's ability to regulate costs and to implement the budget adopted in the Parliament of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What if the Parliament decides to increase the basis for state officials without having to forward it to the budget funds, does this mean that it will go immediately into budget rebalancing. And this law should see what legal experts think because the government's powers and powers of the Parliament interfere. No one doubts that the Parliament can bring a level and a level of base, but the question is how to put it in the context of the budget and the funds at the place of payment of the material rights of state officials. Therefore, I think this is a law that is quite dubious, and on the other hand paints a conflict between the MOST and HDZ because instead of this law, we could very easily or the government could have made a decision on the reduction of the base by a certain percentage, as the government led by Zoran Milanovic. So this is just an epilogue of conflict over this law. Nothing's going to be resolved. We're just throwing dust in the eyes of the citizens instead of sitting down and making fair arrangements for the whole system of wages, including the system of state, the salaries of government officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24283	Thank you. Answer to the replica of Representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24284	Dear fellow Mrsic, indeed, our fellow MPs believe that we can deal with the explanation of this proposal in quality, but they have not left us but are not here in the assembly, currently due to other obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24285	Representative Nenad Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24286	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I could never predict in my worst dream that I would agree with the HDZ's position as much as I agree today. I not only agree with everything you've said here, but I agree with this last one now that your club thinks that you two esteemed representatives are quite enough to deal with such a bill. And one would be enough because that law is just as valuable. You said this legal proposal was rash, unbalanced, populist and all that's true. He introduces a mess where it became order, he introduces a imbalance complete in pay relations where a civil servant like you said would have a higher salary than his minister. I mean, this is one circus, but you tell me something else why I'm replicating you, and why you, you're a coalition partner with MOST, and why on earth are you harassing the public with such bill proposals because you're one body, you're a coalition. So why didn't you agree at the coalition? So why didn't you tell them? So look at this populist hasty and unbalanced, this proposal of yours can't go to the Parliament. It can't. Look, this law doesn't even have the government's opinion. Government opinion always comes when MPs or clubs propose law. But the government has been so disdainful about this proposal that it didn't even want to write an opinion or even negatively. That's what the government thinks of this proposal. Now answer me and why are you harassing us as a coalition?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24287	Replication response, Representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24288	Dear fellow Stazic, I don't know if I would understand this part of your replica when you said that you really agree that the two of us colleagues are enough to explain such a meaningless and worthless proposal. Is that what you thought we were worth? I don't know how to interpret it. On the other hand, on this second part of the replica, I must tell you, therefore that the club of representatives is a separate club from our club and according to the Rules of Procedure they have the right to propose everything as well as all other clubs in the Croatian Parliament. And we're here to read each other according to our views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24289	Thank you, Representative Jelkovac. Representative Miroslav Simic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24290	Dear colleague Jelkovac, here's one thing I wanted to mention when you were talking about us getting into a situation where certain civil servants have salaries higher than government officials. Well, I must say, unfortunately, the truth is, unfortunately, we have this situation already today. You have three specifically worked comparisons, you have three positions of state officials who have higher salaries than parliamentary deputies. And it's nothing new. I agree with you that we need to change other laws and put these things in order. I'm sorry that we're not discussing this in an emergency procedure and that it won't be in effect since 1.1. that my colleague Stazic was and said that this is what it says, and there's no point in discussing it because he won't be in force since 1.1. He won't be able to do anything else because the SDP club didn't support it. How serious are these legal proposals or unserious and we'll be able to talk about it here today. But from what I've heard, the SDP has announced that it will support this legislative proposal if we support someone else, which means they would also support this unserious legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24291	Answer to the replica of Representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24292	Dear colleague, so what you have stated is that there are already certain imbalances, namely that already certain civil servants have a higher salary than state officials, is not an excuse for making this situation worse. So our club feels that it really is neither good nor just, and ultimately does not contribute to the efficiency of the system that the superior officer, i.e. that a senior officer in this case has a lower salary than his or her subordinate. In this case, according to your proposal, the imbalance in the future would be even greater if this proposal was adopted. And I don't think it's a good thing in this House we're making laws rashly, in a hurry, and we haven't seen before how they all work on the whole system. I think we can do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24293	Thank you. Representative Zeljko Lenart responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24294	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I don't know this legal proposal is more and more like a sinking ship or I can say a bridge that's collapsing, because I see that coalition partners have left the ship and left it to the ladies to do it nicely. And here's to congratulating them for their courage. If this had been an honest intention, it would have been resolved through tax reform because it could have actually been solved in a quality way. Because the state budget includes many management presidents and directors and all those who are not officials, who still have supervisory boards, boards of directors or I don't know where they sit, who collect very large amounts on their accounts during the month. I think it should have happened then everywhere. Because as the Constitution says, we're all the same, so it should have been equally affected on all those who get their own personal income from the state budget. Unfortunately, it didn't reach out to any bankers, bring in a tax. We could see it in the neighborhood how Orban does it, so we could fill out our modest budget that we have, which is so hollow, and it's missing a lot of it. I think it's a set of good wishes. Here again, I join all those who congratulated the HDZ ladies who defend blue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24295	Replication response, Representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24296	Dear colleague, I repeat again that HDZ club representatives have not left the ship, so they are not currently in the assembly because of other obligations they have as representatives. And I'm asking you not to take away my right maybe just because I'm a woman to represent the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24297	I'd ask the MPs to refrain from commenting if they didn't require a replica. A representative of Nikola Grmoya called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24298	Dear President, you said that by voting this bill would lead to even greater inequality, that many would have higher salaries than parliamentarians, rather than state officials. You mentioned counties, you mentioned mayors and mayors. We have this situation, as counterpart Simic said. I think the mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretvanski, means the mayor of the county from which I come has a higher salary than the prime minister whose situation is now on the table. We're just looking, so by this bill of law, that now, means no raises of salaries to government officials. Coli Stazic calls it a ridiculous proposal, which basically means that he thinks the government he supported was funny because it has passed a regulation restricting the growth of officials' salaries. That means counterpart Stazic claims Milanovic's government is funny. This government also considers Prime Minister Plenkovic, meaning that it is not good to cut salaries or go with such a proposal because we do not have support and we are looking for this support here in the Croatian Parliament of all MPs who agree with this proposal and I do not see any problem or this is a conflict in the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24299	Thank you. Answer to the replica of Representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24300	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Grmoi, I do not see that the disagreement is completely in the opinion of the problem in this coalition, so what you said is that there is now a imbalance and we have just talked about it, I just think that as representatives in the Croatian Parliament we should seek to achieve better solutions in the future than those we currently have. So I think that by analysing the entire system of wages in the state or public sector, we can find a fairer and better solution and let's try to analyse it in the future and see what needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24301	I'd like to thank Representative Jelkovac. Representative Darko Paric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24302	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues, to warn you, this is an area where none of us are up to MOST and where MOST has an absolute primate over us all, and this is an area of political hypocrisy and political duplicity. Because only MOST and colleagues from MOST can go to Mark's square in the morning and agree the law with theirs, I don't know whether partners or associates or as soon as we define that tax reform, only MOST can come to the Assembly to raise hands for that law and only the Most can afterwards propose a new law that corrects the mistakes in that law that they themselves have passed. And then sell a story about how it's supposed to be done to make the people better or I don't know what. Only MOST can say that the change of this law will reduce the salary of the mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva County because this law does not even touch the salary, this salary is done through some other laws. What we need to remind ourselves of in this relatively late hour in this small Parliament, the Tax Reform Act for which MOST now gives counter law to prevent something from being even passed if it wasn't for the same MOST's hand. Therefore, fellow MOST colleagues, you still have that beautiful, beautiful control package with your hands when you raise them, you pass those laws. There wouldn't be 76 hands if it wasn't for your 15, 14, 13 or how many hands you have. So what you're doing right now is extreme hypocrisy and extreme swan song. This is hypocritical to the citizens and to all of us here, you're wasting our time. The government didn't think so, you know why there wasn't a government opinion because all of the MOST's ministers gave their opinion on this bill and said it was okay. Because that's how the laws are passed through the ministers' opinions. Therefore, MOST has already given its opinion on this law and said that everything is OK. And what you're looking at here is a performance and eye-stuttering to the entire Croatian public, to all of us. And the story about the mayor's salary isn't in this law at all just to get along. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24303	Thank you. Answer to the replica of Representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24304	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, you've replicated to me, although I've never once spoken in my replication of this proposal of MOST being the expression of their hypocrisy or I don't know what, that's your word. So I've listed for what basic reasons the HDZ Club disagrees with this proposal and I wouldn't repeat it here. And I'd also like to say if you'd heard wrongly, Mr. Grmoya did not say that this proposal would affect the mayor's salaries and that they would be reduced. So he is aware that this law only affects the salaries of government officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24305	Representative Davor Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelkovac. You said in your statement that this law was expedient, that it wasn't comprehensive, that it didn't cover all the areas. We heard that he was unserious, unprepared, and I would say that the cost and question of who would pay for this cost that we are now discussing here is electricity, heating and all, and there was no need for this law to come to the assembly because it could be resolved by the government regulation, could be resolved in tax reform. We warned that the salaries are raised mostly by people who are in public enterprises and state administrations who do not control this Parliament and that they will go skiing in Austria, Germany, Italy and will not spend more money in Croatia. And only at the pressures, tell me if it's true, only on the pressure of the press did your fellow partners remember that there was something to be done to make the payments to the parliamentary MPs not grow because they promised in the campaign to cut the salaries to the MPs. And I personally agree that we don't need salaries to grow, but I can't accept it, and I don't think you can all accept spending taxpayers' money through unserious and unprepared laws. So what do you think about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24307	Thank you. Answer to the replica of Representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24308	Dear fellow MP, I believe that every proposal that comes before us deserves debate, and so far it has been no matter how high its preparation was or not, we are here to discuss and express our views on it, so I would not agree with this argument that we are here now needlessly. And as for your questions to me to answer about press pressure on MOST, I really can't answer that because there is no such knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24309	I'd like to thank Representative Jelkovac. Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here we see colleagues that everyone is against the MOST's proposal, which of course you're right when you say that every club has the right to propose legal solutions. Well, we see here and Mr. Pupovac says it's a miracle Mr. Pardon Stazic wonders that HDZ supports you, supports you with all his heart when it comes to his pocket. Of course the HSS doesn't support this wage proposal. Of course. Because if Stjepan Radic rises in HSS behavior lately, I don't know what that man would say. In fact, his bones are turning in his grave. Therefore, every parliamentary representative and every club has the right to make a proposal and no one has the right to challenge any club, no one has the right to challenge any club to make proposals. None of the MPs. This was proposed by 15 parliamentary deputies, and you ask yourself and comment on why you do not make your proposals. What's good, I'll sign it for you. And muddled here by parliamentary deputies, which confirms that all parliamentary representatives are against us...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24311	Representative Miro Bulj!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24312	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24313	Before you responded to the replica, you raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24314	Yes, Mr. President of the Parliament. You should have warned the parliamentary representative that I was not replicating him, but Mrs. Jelkovac, and he was talking to me to the HSS as well. I said I was against the pay raises to the parliamentary deputies, and I didn't mention any name or any party in my debate. If he recognized himself, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24315	I would just like to warn you that the debate is currently taking place and since the parliamentary representative has the right to comment on what she said in the debate and also to comment on her point of view of other parliamentary representatives, and this cannot be treated by way of a distance from the topic. That's why I let you. Answer to the replica of Representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Bulj, you and I agree, therefore, I have also claimed in my previous replica that it is indeed your right as a club of representatives, as is the right of all clubs in the Croatian Parliament to highlight the proposals, and ours as a representative to discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24317	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club for Participation in the debate, Representative Peja Grbin reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24318	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are today discussing the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State officials, but the right subject of this today's debate is credibility and duality. In order to talk about credibility and duality when we talk about this topic, which is the theme of salaries of government officials and their incomes, we have to go back a little bit to the past and remember the times of also a major economic crisis that rocked the world in 1998, I think it was a Russian crisis and, of course, it also reflected in Croatia and led to a major reduction in the decline of the gross social product. In those times, the ruling HDZ party passed in 1999 a Law on the Obligations and Rights of State officials who raise salaries, receiving government officials to levels that are multiplely higher than they have today. One of the most important topics in the 2000 campaign, i.e. for the elections that took place on January 3, 2000, was this particular salary. Both the SDP and our coalition partners immediately after their entry into power together without pomp, without such a circus, not a month after the government was formed in February 2000, passed a law that changed the coefficients, together in an agreement without overcoming the responsibility of the third party. In the spirit of some famous people, we didn't ask for support, and the question would be given. In 2011 to 2016, again with more or less of the same coalition partners, three times we reduced the salary to state officials. Three times. With 4,630 bases reduced to 3,890 kuna or elementary mathematics by 16%. Was there a circus about that? It's not. Were there any press conferences about it? It's not. Was there a debate in the Croatian Parliament about that? It's not. Why? Because we knew what we had to do, because we accepted responsibility and we agreed with those who took that responsibility with us for managing the Republic of Croatia and we did the right thing. On the other hand, the rights of political officials were the subject and campaigns in 2015 and 2016. So in 2015, we talked about salaries of $9.999. Ninety-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-ninth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-nineth-s. Does anyone remember that? These were conditions for forming a government, conditions for forming a government. Of course, after coming to power about it, not a word. In 2016, 7 guarantees are set. One of these guarantees is the rights of officials, but first of all parliamentary representatives because they are the most controversial. And it's about those famous six plus six. And did these famous six plus six MPs get suspended? It's not. Because we changed the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State Officials, but we forgot to amend the Law on the Rights of Parliamentary Representatives, so in that law that applies to us Parliamentarians 6 + 6 remains. Otherwise, just so you know, the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Parliamentarians was in the process, but it did not propose to amend that provision of 6 + 6, and it certainly has nothing. Mr. Petrov, who is currently sitting behind me, representing these guarantees, said they were also being admitted by officials when they were represented. Those are his words. I looked online, some forget, for them there's google, he remembers everything. And it's very clear. Those were the conditions for joining the coalition. The coalition here today counts two months, but it doesn't come true. The HDZ has made it very clear why it does not want to support this law. And to join the coalition with them, colleagues from MOST asked for it, it's very credible and hypocritical, depending on how you look. Today, today, who are they asking for support from? From us. From us from the opposition. And you can fool yourself not to ask for support from the opposition because you're looking for it. When you talk about the parliamentary deputies you are asking for support, you are talking to us first of all, not only because we are only currently in the assembly, but because your coalition partners have clearly told you that they will not give you support for this. A friend of mine from my club who spoke before me was kind of playing around, not to mention making fun of your proposal, and they had good reasons for that. Because I'll say it again, when we from the SDP wanted to do it, then we did it. We sat down with our coalition partners, we talked, and believe me, these conversations were often not easy or pleasant, and they should not be because it is important things and responsibility for managing a country is an important thing. But we made a deal and then we did it. We led politics with deeds, not words. You lead her by her words and ask for our support. Well, we're telling you now, we're ready to support you. We are, whatever we think of this law, and even because there are among us those who think it's bad, and he's scandalous, but we're ready to support you and we'll tell you why. Because we're offering you a political trade. We now offer you a political trade but not behind the table, not behind closed doors, from here on out of this pay phone, from these constituency benches. We offer you a clear political trade. The SDP advocates' club will support the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State Officials, will support the reduction of the salaries of state officials if the club of representatives of MOST agrees on our terms and conditions, which is an increase in salaries for workers who receive minimum wage in Croatia, just as we have proposed, to 45% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia starting from 1 January 2017 to 50% of the average salary in Croatia starting from 1 January 2018. There are those who wonder, they say so how can you blackmail if you support each other and I'll tell you how. First, we learned from those who are building their political career on political blackmail, it is legitimate to learn. And we're doing it. And secondly, that is the main reason, we are now fully aware that, as a club that has 37 MPs, we do not have the political power to pass the Minimum Pay Act on our own. And as we reduced the salary of officials during our term of office by 16%, so we increased the minimum wage during that term by 14% and at the same time freed it from income tax by the end of the term of office. So the net increase in minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia almost reached 18% or 19%. So we've increased the minimum wage by a higher percentage than we've reduced the salary of government officials. We're gonna do it now. That's what we need partners for. We can't look for these partners within the opposition because we don't have enough votes, we're looking for her at your place. And we are ready to participate in a political trade with you to achieve your goal, which is far more important to us. However, as it usually comes from public political trade, there is nothing. And you know how we know that? Because the Minimum Payment Act was sent to the Assembly procedure on the same day as the Law on Amendments and Supplements, I'm sorry, the Law amending the Law on the Rights of Officials of the State on the same day. The same day is included in the agenda but we are not discussing it. He did not come to committee meetings, when we asked that committee sessions, into their agenda include minimum wages, it was not accepted because it was obviously ruling and there were unique, ruling more important games, to throw dust in the eyes of the public than to increase minimum wage, but to do what is important to the lives of those Croatian citizens who have the least. The President of the Parliament is a maester of the ceremony, in the fullest sense of the word, not in negative but in the most positive. The President of the Parliament has the authority to determine what will be on the agenda and what will not. This law is a minimum wage law, not because it obviously doesn't matter. The SDP representative club remains in its position, we will be restrained on this proposal and our offer is to you further on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24319	Thank you, Agent Grbino. The first advocate to answer the word is MP Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24320	Thank you very much. I would quote an article that says that the salaries of officials with coefficients are defined, and in paragraph 3 tells officials in the Office of the President of the Republic of Republics the salary coefficient determines the President of the Republic and, in accordance with the provision of paragraph 3 of this law, the President of the Republic may also disregard this wage reduction, may determine the coefficients more than it has, he may choose the coefficients he wishes from this list. So that's something this law offers. Again, I note that the law does not have a fiscal impact assessment, so something that should be clear is clearly reducing wages at least under this law, but the PFU is a form for all laws required and even for those where there is no financial impact and it should be written precisely and clearly why it is not. And again, I note that instead of adopting a government regulation where officials' salaries would be limited very simply, as today's decision is made to pay off Christmases by the end of this month, but I don't know from which funds, because there is no such funds in the budget. This is where the government's authority is transferred to the Parliament, which means that the Parliament will decide on its salaries but without the government's opinion. A very complicated system and it can be very simple but obviously there is no agreement between the Most and HDZ on the Government because we would have the Government's opinion on this simple and short law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24321	Thank you. A representative of the coat of arms responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24322	Otherwise, do you know which minister should prepare an opinion on this bill? The vice-president of the government and the minister of the administration coming out of the quota of exactly the party that proposed this. So he could have worked so hard to prepare his opinion, referred to the government, and had the government turn him down and let the government suggest a different opinion, let him discuss it or not. However, I will point out to you another detail that tells you how many rulings including MOST believe that this law will be passed and this argument stems from the 2017 budget. I don't know if you've noticed but the costs of working the Parliament include all costs and material costs and wages, etc. It's growing. Thus, by ruling including the MOST, which has supported the 2017 budget on all committees, they do not believe at all that this law will be adopted. What else is that, then, than throwing dust in your eyes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24323	A representative of Nikola Grmoya called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24324	Mr. President, you were talking about credibility. Have you heard of Miss or Mrs. Biljana Gacha? She sat in this House for a day or two and took the privilege of 6+6. Not a single MOST representative who sat in a previous Assembly meeting who is now not in these benches has taken advantage of that privilege. That shows who's credible and who's not credible. When we proposed these laws, you asked for a constitutional assessment. It's obvious the direction MOST is going, reducing the privileges of parliamentary deputies. It's visible from our proposal to punish the failure of MPs on Fridays, it's visible from the fact that Biljana Panja will no longer be repeated if we pass our proposal. You had a chance to change that you didn't. What you have said that your government has limited, reduced the salary growth of officials that is true and I congratulate you on that, no one is slow about it, the problem is that your colleague Stazic calls this proposal ridiculous and that is exactly what made your government, Milanovic's Government. MOST has a clear direction, the direction is such that the privileges of parliamentary representatives should be limited, that those who do not carry out their work knowingly should be punished and that we will never again repeat Biljana Gaća, who I hear, may also be president of the Youth SDP Forum.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24325	I thank the esteemed representative of the bush. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24326	You see, honestly, I hope that Mrs. Gaeca will repeat herself and that as soon as possible sit in these benches because that short time, unfortunately, when she was in the Assembly, has shown how someone who is young by age can also be responsible in their work. And you should know the whole history of her entry into the Parliament and that that's why she lost her job and that she had no place to go back and that only because she took what was legally hers. And it's interesting as you call Biljana Pantsa because she took what's rightfully hers, and when a colleague from your party takes what belongs to him, even though in 2016 it only took two more people in the Republic of Croatia and on that basis builds a house then it's okay. So when Biljana Panty does something then it's not good, and when someone who's from MOST does it, it's okay. And that's the hypocrisy I was telling you about. However, counterpart Stazic made it very clear why he called the bill ridiculous. The fact that you stick your head in the sand and that those arrows bounce away like you're from the Teflon is your problem. And my colleague Stazic called you funny for one reason. Your condition for joining the HDZ coalition was to reduce the rights of state officials. Your condition for joining the HDZ coalition was to cut the salaries of state officials. The rights of state officials are not reduced, wages are not reduced and you remain in the coalition. Is that two-faced? It's for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24327	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino, for his reply. Next to the replica, a respected counterpart, Miroslav Simic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24328	Dear colleague Grbin, here's to answer you about the rights of state officials. Yes, government officials' rights are being reduced. One of the cuts is the abolition of the right 6+6 for those who have been here for 3 days as your colleague then uses them for a year. That's what we did. We will do some more things, because, as you know, there is another reading coming, an amendment to the Law on the Rights of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. But that's not why I wanted to replicate it. It's because of one other thing. As far as the minimum wage you've been talking about and what you're saying in MOST, how you're offering political trade, you've tried here using percentages or some statistics that are often said to be a good way to cheat, to say that here's the SDP somewhat better-quality solved the ratio of minimum salaries and salaries of government officials. Here I will just remind you that the SDP in its Government in 2013 raised a minimum salary of 30 kuna, 2015 for 90 kuna, and this government has raised a minimum wage of 156 kuna. We're satisfied with that, we support it, and we think that the room for new increases will be, but not at this point. But what I find interesting, or what I find absurd is that you set the situation the following way. Or we'll raise the minimum wage that you didn't raise as much as this government did, twice you didn't raise it. Or we'll raise our already maximum wage. How do you connect on one side the minimum wage and your very high salary of a parliamentary representative. It can't be connected, it can't be connected. It's happening next. You're looking for an excuse not to support this proposal, and you can't find an excuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24329	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miroslav Simic, for the replica. Replication response, distinguished colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24330	Thank you, Vice President. I'll do it one more time. You've changed the State Officials Act that we're changing again two months ago. The Law on the Rights and Obligations of State Officials does not regulate 6+6 for MPs, but is regulated by the Law on the Rights of Parliamentary Representatives. You haven't changed him, which means everyone who's been here in 24 hours can still use the rights that belong to him. So don't tell the truth, don't say anything rougher than that. Now let's get back to the minimum wage issue. I'm extremely glad that after six days we're finally trying to get you to say something about it, you've made your point. And you finally said you didn't think the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia should be raised to 50%. Thank you for that. And thank you for that because now we know where we are, now we know that you and I don't need to talk about workers' rights at all. Our offer remains on the table. And now that we're talking about an increase in wages to others, I won't say it, but I will tell you because you're a lawyer, because you should know how paid in Croatian legislation is arranged. This Regulation shall enter The labour law says salaries in the Republic of Croatia are determined in gross amounts. This means that tax reform does not increase the salaries of government officials but is increasing the share of wages that remains the same, which will be paid net on their hands and reduces the amount that will be paid through income tax to local self-government. So that's true. We are not talking about increasing or reducing when we talk about tax reform, but whether it will come more to us or more to public services. And that's true. And I see my time is running out, but a couple of other colleagues have picked up their lines, so I'll have time to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24331	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino for his reply. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24332	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, fellow coat of arms. Here we are discussing the salaries of state officials, but no one mentioned the governor's salary, for example the Central Bank. The highest instance of this system and the state are prime minister and president of the state and they have a salary of around 20,000 kuna, and the Central Bank Governor has paid more than 30,000 kuna and it is not included in this reduction in the salary coefficients for state officials at all. Well, I'd like to ask you to comment on that a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24333	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Marina Squiboli, for the replica. Replication response, distinguished colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24334	So I'll be brief you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24335	The next call came from distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, fellow coat of arms. You are a kind of legal expert, you have been in the Assembly for many years, and in this presentation you have presented a number of accuracy on the reduction of the salaries of parliamentary representatives, state officials, but you should also say the truth that at that point the growth of salaries and teachers, teachers, people in the state public administration and that they have also brought that burden and that they have had a signed agreement, that when the economic situation is improved, the growth of gross social product in the Republic of Croatia will increase their wages. And the negotiations started. There were promises two plus two, three plus three percent. Finally, when it was seen that there was no interest or money for it, the legal validity of those agreements was questioned. So I wonder if the legal validity of such laws that are not fully prepared, which are not comprehensive, where there is no government opinion, where there is no opinion of the interested public whether it is legally valid and why we are at all discussing it if such a law is not legally valid. And you also said there was no one but you SDP, the Most in the assembly. And we from the HSS are here and we talked about tax reform, minimum wage and asked that it be part of that package and that it be 3800 kuna. And I agree with you that minimum wage must go under emergency debate and growth that these 156 kunas are not enough and we are on behalf of the club and we wrote to the government that we could live with such a minimum wage. And I also think that we need to think about pensioners, because pensions are below 40% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, so when we're already discussing the salaries of officials about everyone, I think we should take care of it and make it fair that even those who have the least money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24337	I thank my esteemed colleague Davor Vlaovic. The answer of the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24338	Thank you. First my correction, maybe I made a little bit of a mistake here. I was convinced that I said that MOST colleagues are addressing opposition and that they are asking for support from the opposition, and indeed my apology if I wasn't clear enough in their statements because it is a taste of my entire debate, that on the one hand they have set the conditions for entering the government, and on the other hand, when these conditions are clearly not met they remain in the government, but they are asking the opposition to vote their guarantees so that when they look at the mirror or I don't know what they can sleep more peacefully and work with themselves. To get back to the beginning of your presentation. You're really in first place, and that's true, and we've never been able to hide it. We felt that at a time when it must be intervened for the purpose of receiving first and foremost in public services, it must also be intervened in receiving government officials. And you will remember that during the SDP and our coalition partners' mandate, there were two tax changes concerning income tax. The first was the 2012 tax which affected the way that all the officials' salaries were reduced, but that's not why we raised the base, it remained the same. And the net amount that we received after that was reduced. Afterwards, we reduced the base, we also reduced some of the additional rights that concerned, amongst others, the representative's co-chair, and then, at the end of 2014, when we changed income tax, it was a decision to cut it because it was fair. And just in that context, I think we did the right thing, but we did the right thing by not doing the circus. That would be my answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24339	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino for his reply. The following came to the replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24340	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Grbin. There is, therefore, as you heard in your debate now certain laws that may not be entirely in line with morality but some people use them, so let's say the MOST used the right to take from the Living Wall a million and a half kuna that didn't belong to them. They are legal, though, but they do not belong to them, since our representative has moved on to their ranks and signed up under their name even though voters otherwise wanted to, they did not vote for MOST but for the Living Wall and they took that money. Well, now that they're so moral, they're not for law abuse, let them give them back to us, and then they can call you for some 6+6, 3+3 which I know about. And otherwise, when you mentioned those promises, you weren't exactly accurate, I have to warn you because those 9.990 kunas were only scheduled for the first year, and for the second one another 50% below, it means about 4.998 so it was said that there would be 999 loans for young entrepreneurs of $99.999 without interest and then finally the idea that the Parliament would have only 99 representatives. So I would ask you, given that you are represented as an expert in constitutional law to tell us, is it possible by the Constitution to have 99 MPs in the Assembly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24341	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for his replica. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24342	Not according to this present one, and you know it, and that's why you're asking me. I'll go, you've asked a lot of questions, I'll start at the end so it's easier for me. I forgot here were really so many of those promises that I forgot and thank you for reminding me of them. But again, when you call the Most because of the kidnapping of MPs, I cannot recall that MOST called on some colleagues and colleagues who are presently representatives of the Croatian Parliament, that a year ago they took the money in the same way and formed their own party that received the amount before the constitution of the Parliament. So what they did today, which is fine with them today, a year ago, it bothered them. But there is also a small inconsistency with you because when you call MOST it would be okay for you to call your colleague Pernar because he went to the elections as a Living Wall, and today he declares himself to us as the Alphabet of Democracy in front of all of us, as well as the Secretariat of the Croatian Parliament. The president of your party sitting next to you said it was all done in agreement although he is not a member of that party to make money at the expense of the alphabet democracy. So unfortunately, any time a little bit of burial can be found with him a little detour and taking advantage of what's legal, but whether he's normal will judge the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24343	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24344	Thank you very much. You're a true expert, you've been president of the Committee on the Constitution... you have legal experience and you certainly know this matter we're talking about and of course you must present some facts from the opposition and opposition. However, the fact that you as an expert is legal is amazing when speaking in your career here is political here, so you said after a referendum held in the Republic of Croatia that parliamentary representatives should vote on this referendum. Or examples here, Thompson must not sing a song in Pula,... mentions "To Home Ready", and you can sing it today and call that greeting. It's true that it happens to people who are non-legislators who can look at things superficially, but those things weren't exactly expected of you. I'd like to say so in this case. So much mud on MOST all the time from the pay phone to up as if we were the culprits for all 20 years what was happening today in Croatian politics. He said well, we have a Croatian National Bank where the head of the bank employs and determines the height of the salary and has an empire, and he is familiar with the fact that MOST fought over it and the previous government and that 12 people, and one of the reasons is why the government fell. I remember these details well, but you won't look the truth in the eye. But I hope you as an expert can find some good elements here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24345	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24346	Thank you. Sugar comes at the end. I've been waiting for your replica. For a moment, I was afraid you didn't lift the tile, but of course that fear was without any foundation. Comrade Bully, my colleague Bully, I'm about to throw some mud at you and call you a hypocrite. Yeah, a fellow Scibola was talking about the National Bank. My colleague warned me of a problem, and I have to agree with him. Indeed, and that is something that should be arranged. But, Comrade Bull, you've now said the same thing that should be arranged. And did you arrange that? You're not. Well, fellow Bull, now's the chance to fix it. We've been changing this law in two months for the second time. Next time. So, twice when you could do something you wanted, you didn't do it. This debate will take an hour and 30 minutes to assess. Stand up and make it clear. You can't apply anymore, unfortunately, but you can end up on behalf of the club, stand up and say: I suggest adding another item to this law that will regulate the salary of the governor of the Croatian National Bank. You have a chance. Stand up, say, suggest a coefficient. Here you go. It's your chance. Your club is the promoter, not me. Make it right!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24347	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24348	Dear Grbin, you have seen well that MOST actually has no way of agreeing to a publicly offered trade and that if we support their proposal to cut salaries to state officials, in this case the minimum salaries to all Croatian workers are increased. And there you said that, it's actually a very clear intensity because the proposal for a minimum wage bill was pushed down there somewhere at the end of the agenda. And I have this accident that my bill of law or the bill of the club that I wrote in one hour, that I would actually repair the damage that this government, it doesn't even have, is not included in the agenda. So, in 17 days, there's a blockade in the education system. No principal of primary and secondary schools will be able to be elected to the director's office because it will not satisfy the condition that he has a licence for the director. And this government simply, none of the representatives of the ruling majority, this government does not refer to that law even though the public debate is over, two articles have been amended. That law doesn't come. We're breaking up tomorrow and I'm sitting down, I wrote this article to save the system's blockade, but there's no law, and it's not going to be discussed. And you know why they won't? Because this wise government will wisely avoid discussing its incompetence and bypassing the Croatian Parliament, and it is likely to address the issue by regulation in the next 14 days as something urgent even though we know which things and how urgent and serious things can be dealt with by a regulation. There. It's a picture and an opportunity for this government. It's a picture and an opportunity for this ruling majority. What to say next, what to say, what message to send.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24349	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice on the line. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24350	Dear colleagues, another contribution to what I started my presentation, which is a conversation about credibility and duality. But there's another better example than talking about what we're doing. At the same time, colleagues from the Croatian People's Party, together with their colleagues from MOST, referred to the procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, which needed to regulate another pre-election promise, which is that of introducing preferential voting in local elections. You will remember many discussions and proposals from the former management minister, who, meanwhile, received a ticket from the MOST formation where she said that, by modelling parliamentary elections and local elections, a preferential vote should be put in place. We're not just not going to introduce it, we're not even going to discuss it. Why? Because those words of the President of the Parliament were spoken in his inaugural speech that they would treat everyone equally were just words for them, and at that point it was not intended to be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24351	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino, for his reply. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24352	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow coat of arms, to return to the taste of your debate. I was kind of comfortable listening because as far as I can remember, there was no such transparent and open offer of political trade that I really congratulated because you have style and I have always stood up for openness and transparency, so this debate was, therefore, a healthy dose of sarcasm, and I enjoyed listening to it even though I know that it would certainly be nothing. You mentioned raising the minimum wage to the workers as a possibility of that trade. Well, I'm also personal to raise the minimum wage to the workers, and I believe that in the term of this government it's very likely to happen, perhaps not at the beginning, but at least at the end. And maybe then you'll do it... But I know what level he meant, not this one. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And maybe then you'll support it because there's gonna be a lot of things being arranged, and I don't think there's gonna be any blockage as it could be heard here. But to go back to the taste of what the club's position is, so the taste is that the salaries of government officials should not be regarded as an isolated category, and that is, in fact, what is actually the whole of this debate and what the colleague pointed out as the most important segment and so we are all for social justice but not under any conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24353	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic for the replica. And the answer to my distinguished colleague, Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24354	Thank you. Well, I mean, you've noticed sarcasm well, but the problem with political trade is that it doesn't work when it's public. It is a huge flaw in the public offering of a deal because political trade is in one of its most negative terms, one who has given her a name fits and is only carried out when she is behind closed doors and preferably not even found out about it. We tried to turn it around. We saw how it would end from the presentation of fellow Simic. And I just hope that at some point there will be a proposal for a minimum wage bill that will satisfy what we've been looking for. I don't have a problem with it being a proposal from the government, I don't have a problem with the government rewriting what's in our proposal. I will vote for that and then because in this part of my political work, it doesn't matter how we get to what our goal is, which is that the least-performing workers get at least a little more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24355	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino, for his reply. This is what we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We're moving on to the next one. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24356	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. If this bill made a serious contribution to reducing or stopping or reducing poverty in the Republic of Croatia, then the SDSS Club would be among the first to support it and have more radical views. However, this looks like a merciful gesture at a time when an increasing number of Croatian citizens are poor. And we are not a church to share charity, we are a Parliament that makes decisions and laws governing social relations. Secondly, if this bill would stop the growing inequality in this country between the rich and the poor, between developed and undeveloped, between those who can educate children and those who cannot educate children, among those who can go to the hospital and ensure decent treatment and those who cannot do so, then the SDSS Club would be the first to support this law. And moreover, he suggested that parliamentarians work free at least until such relations were settled in this society. If this law increased the power of this Parliament in relation to other power centres from the government, then across this square to other power centres that have formed in these 25 years, then my club and I would feel it is necessary for Parliament's representatives to meet 24 hours and that only those who have no other jobs and jobs where they receive salaries receive salaries in this House. No, but we don't touch it. We don't touch our colleagues and colleagues that newly established power distribution. With this we only further cement it because we belong to those who in the last 20 years or 15 years or 10 years want parliamentaryism to weaken to be a place that everyone will spit on and everyone will embarrass. If someone comes into politics to get hold of this kind of measure of political power, they will welcome him tomorrow as well, to spit on how he used the trust of the people to gain power and not to use that power for what is the most difficult and most difficult difficulties of this society. If this law contributes to our country's return to the minimum of its sovereignty, it is not symbolic, but effective in relation to other countries and relations to the centres of power in its own country. Then me and my club wouldn't have any obstacles to upholding this law, but this bill only spreads the illusion amongst people that we are doing something and at the same time further enforcing the non-legislative mandate, but Parliament and parliamentism as such, and we are letting and leaving the country the necessary power that it needs to have, and which of the Constitution should arise, and out of the will of the people should we leave it to whom? Those on the outside have power and those on the inside have power. And I don't know who's worse treating the people of this country whether those who have power on the inside or those who have power on the outside have power because they don't stop being rich because the spilling of wealth doesn't stop. Now, allow me to say something about a subject that isn't popular, but I've been talking about it for 15 years here, and I've been in the Parliament for a little while, but I've been talking for 15 years and I'm going to talk about it as I go out here for this pay phone. If we are going to contribute to Parliament's being considered a rag, if we are going to contribute not to strengthen our decisions here but to spread false illusions and false expectations then we are actually acting destructively on our own business and on our own responsibility, regardless of whether we received 16, 14, 9, 9 or 5 thousand kuna. And that's irresponsible. Our responsibility and our power don't come from the money we take, but from the decisions we make, and the attitudes and visions we have, and these are neither attitudes nor visions, this is like someone said cheap populist eye blurring. I'm sorry to have to say it like that, but it is. Because if it weren't for that, then it would be systemically arranged and aligned with public sector wages, and we would have established norms how and how much it's possible for people to get to the public sector, including all those who receive public money, but then we'd come to those who get rich, then we'd come to those who, at a time when wealth started to get asked about the different forms of profits they have, for different forms of extra profits, for different forms of extra profits, for different forms of land exploitation and state resources and for different forms of exploitation of people and their work. Of course, it requires a different kind of policy, which of course requires that we not be advocating public change but to confront those who have power. And we don't have that power. And if we don't get her back this way as you suggest she won't be recovered or restored. It will be restored only by a new speech, only by new ideas and only by the belief that parliamentaryism in Croatia can be strengthened or that it can be regained strength if we concentrate on decisions, on legality in conduct, on ideas we share, and then on responsibility to the general state of society and on how much we, how competent it is to make people in Parliament, given how much other people earn and how poor they are. If we don't have it, then we haven't done good for the poor, and we have poored our own Parliament, and we have poored its policy. This is not a challenge, because this is a debate, a division of opinions between those who have chosen one way of working and those who have chosen another way of working, between those who know what parliamentaryism is and how difficult it is to fight for new decisions, for new ideas and for those who seek a shortcut and the cheapest way to do it. So here in this House there were MPs to whom most of them had their incomes and their jobs, and today there are those who, if they were not in Parliament, would have paid more than they have in Parliament and not among those who have become rich in these 25 years. They may be among those who have made decisions that have made it possible for others to become rich. It may be among those who have made decisions to redistribute social wealth just like this, that we have this kind of separation to the extremely rich and very poor. If they are, we're going after that fellow from the Most. It's much harder, but much more imperative for this country and much more honest with whoever expects us to start making decisions that will change these circumstances that were created in the 25 years I mentioned at the beginning. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24357	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milorad Pupovac, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Nicole Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24358	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Pupovac, you have already said on several occasions that the salaries of parliamentary deputies are too small, that we have poor working conditions, that you do not need to talk to the public. Well, we all know that's the case. You have no need to think at all about what Croatian citizens think, but that is another problem, that is the problem of the Electoral Law. You'll be here, you'll probably outlive most of these MPs here because it's such an election law. And you're saying it not because you're brave, but because it's such an election law. And that's a fact. And what you're talking about, means that MOST doesn't have the courage to talk about any other questions, MOST has the courage. That's what we saw when we discussed the CNB where we asked for the revision to enter the CNB. So when the letter came from the European Union, we rose loudly against it. We discuss all the things that are important for Croatian society. I don't have any trouble getting up against Hanžekovic to be yelled at by the morning list. I don't have any problem with that. And if the salary of Parliamentarians was 7,000 kuna, I wouldn't sell myself like that. And if it were 4 and it was 3 I'd be saying what I think. We also now have a question that I have opened, meaning optical networks where I said that Croatia should build its optical network no matter what Germany thinks about it. I said if we had to say a thousand times the Danes of Deutschland and the Danes of Angel. We know what our national interest is and we'll push it. And we have shown that we are not reducing the importance of this Parliament by giving the bill as a club of representatives, and our opposition colleagues are telling us that we do not have the government's opinion. So whether we want power concentrated here or power concentrated exclusively in the Ban Courts. We are the ones who want power back here. Support our bill if you think it's good, if you think it isn't, don't support it. You think it's not, that wages are too high and you're free to talk about it and I respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24359	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Replication response. ... But the injury was before. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Then I apologize. Dear colleague Peja Grbin, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24360	I apologize to my colleague Pupovac, I can see that he was ready to respond, but I must point out the violation of Article 238. Rules of Procedure which prohibits a representative from belittle or offending the chairperson or other representatives. Namely, a colleague of Grmoja has just questioned something that is unfortunately the subject of a debate in the Croatian Parliament and in the general public for many years, which is a question of the position and rights of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So, a colleague of Grmoja pointed out that a colleague of Pupovac because he was elected from the minority list does not have all the rights or responsibilities as all MPs in the Croatian Parliament have. It is unacceptable, unacceptable and for years we have all fought against such an attitude together, that it is said in the Croatian Parliament after all these years, after the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is the least said scandalous. [[/Intruder: That's exactly what I'm talking about.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24361	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino. He was not worth anything in any way except for commenting on the Electoral Law and how to choose MPs, and I don't see any problem with any insults. So, as far as that breach of yours is concerned, the Rules of Procedure are not standing. And I thank you for your intervention. We're moving on to a reply to the replica, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24362	I'm thinking about how to respond to these few replicas that were in one piece past the topic, and one by one by one by a colleague, Nicole Grmoy. And I think I'll only limit myself to one thing. How long have you been in Parliament and politics? How long? Look at you three years ago. How many pounds and how bad you were, and look what you look like and how good you are. And look at me who's been here as long as you say in Parliament and I'm sitting in the prepared place, just getting me into Parliament. Look at you! Look at you and imagine yourself. You're fine, you're very well! You're so good that you can demean and insult other people and not know who you're talking about or what you're talking about because you're a cheap populist.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24363	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milorad Pupovac, and I would really like to ask you to stick to the subject and not to go to personal debates. Dear colleague Nikola Grmo, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24364	Insulting Rules of Procedure 238 insulting MPs, so my colleague Pupovac, based on my weight and my weight, insulted me that I, I don't know, ever since I've been in politics that I'm very good at, and he's here skinny and slanging, and I don't know how many years he's been in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24365	The esteemed colleague of Pupovac is, as far as I understand my point of view, my impression, my perception of you and your character so as not to take it as any insult. I'd like to ask you once more colleagues and colleagues not to go to personal discussions but to stick to the subject. Thank you very much. We move on to the next line, distinguished counterpart Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pupovac. Those 15 years you've been pushing for the parliamentary deputies to act on their conscience are your idealism. A hundred years ago, a sociologist, I don't know his name, said the Parliament was a voting machine. Thus, it is extremely rare for congregation representatives to act on their conscience. They generally act the way their political miles are decided in which they walk. So very rarely, a parliamentary representative will act on his conscience. All this is being agreed in advance, and I am sorry to say that before those elections before the previous elections, the Franak Association received public guarantees from future parliamentary deputies that it would change some things in favour of debtors who were damaged by the bank's actions, however, this did not happen. I also now appeal to the council's conscience that any good proposal that goes in the direction of society be accepted and come from either side. It is a pity that the income tax law has passed as it has passed, it is a pity that amendments that have been of quality have not been accepted, but unfortunately they are not only accepted because parliamentary deputies have not acted according to their conscience but have acted according to the above orders. Unfortunately, that is how it is done in the Parliament, and that is how it will work as long as there is parliamentaryism and Parliament only exists so that we can discuss it, but not so that we can make decisions on our own conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24367	I thank my esteemed colleague Goran Aleksic for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24368	First of all, I think that fellow Alexic Parliament exists to discuss what the subject is and to exchange arguments, to exchange passions if necessary, to exchange beliefs and before that to listen to each other and to create a place to hear each other, not to fail each other, to seek irrelevant arguments about what is discussed and the subject has nothing to do with it. That is why there is parliamentaryism as I see it and how I understand it and how I try to practice it, whether idealism or not was idealism, but that is what I understand by ethical, consistent behaviour in parliamentary debate and in parliamentary action. As for conscience, it is as well as knowledge distributed unevenly among us, where party obligations which unfortunately or fortunately... you do not have in the way they have large parties are an additional element that directs the behaviour and behaviour of people. But one thing is certain, if we do not have the necessary awareness of what is more important, and the less important problems in society, then we will not be able to have a conscience about them. In my debate, I tried to warn what the priorities of the country's first order are, and what are less important priorities, with which we can do something and what we should do, and with which we can't do anything and what we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24369	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milorad Pupovac, for his reply. Next came the replica, the esteemed Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to tell you, I'm not a politician, I haven't been involved in politics, I've never been paid out of the budget for 40 years. I don't know if I've changed anything visually, maybe I have, maybe I haven't, I don't know, but it doesn't matter, so you're a good politician. You gave a great political speech, and you kept mentioning the problem. I'm asking you now, the good politician who's been sitting here in Parliament for 20 years and more, what are the problems, who's caused these problems, and why don't you talk directly about the problems? You know you said, politically about problems and then you said you had some power. So people who have more power than we do here in the Parliament? Does anyone in this country have more power than the Parliament? There isn't. What kind of powers are they? Why don't you say that in public? I wish I knew you'd call her. I think it's just like you that it's not right that it's not good, but there's always a question about some power. Who are these people? Powerful? We know that the conversions are what they are, they're not good, we know that the National Bank and the banks have expended these citizens, that it's the biggest problem, not... parliamentary representatives. Our people robbed banks in this country that the National Bank allowed, you know that for sure and that's the problem. And our salaries, so I'd ask why we get those 30,000 kunas for every parliamentary representative as a party. I'd rather ask a question about that... a matter of pay. There could be more savings in the Parliament than about wages that someone 500 kuna will reduce. So let the few parties finance themselves and the parliamentary representatives themselves. There is no one to say about it, but it is on the side which this people do not see. And everyone's keeping quiet about it. Don't touch that 30,000 kuna, I don't know who gets a million kunas, how much he gets 200, 150, and don't touch that because we're gonna set it up somewhere. That's a question, Mr. Pupovac, not a salary or pulsism that's usually spoken for by the Parliament. [[Intruder Brkić: Time colleagues.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24371	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivica Misic, for the replica. This is what we're done with the replicas after this debate. We're moving on to the next individual debate. The individual debate was attended by an esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar. He's gone. Thank you. The following came to the debate, a distinguished colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24372	Your Honor, Vice President. And here's the only question here, in the end, that was at the beginning of all this debate, whether the MPs in this high house want to support our salary growth or stay on the same level. For some of us, this proposal will even cut our wages, which are the ones that have more than five children. We've done calculations and tried to do it as justly as possible, means that those who have more children don't have that negative effect that their wages are even less, and we've done a lot of calculations and then we've gone out with these coefficients, but unfortunately it can't stop those who have more than five children, for example. There is Minister Slaven Dobrovic, who pays them if this proposal passes, if we get support for him, for their salaries to be less than they are now. So, the basic question is whether we believe that because of everything the politics have done in Croatia for the past 20 years, what the fellow Pupovac has been talking about, and that was the part of all those who were part of the ruling majority, whether it is the right time to raise our salaries. He participated in this, in those decisions that brought Croatia into this situation, talks in principle, does not speak specifically, does not say who the answers are. I always make a very specific reference to people by name and last name who are responsible for certain events in Croatia and now we have only one choice and it is on the conscience of all parliamentary representatives. The opposition says we only call on them and ask for support for this bill. No, I'm in favour, Mr. Vice President, of this proposal and of you, I'm also asking colleagues on my left because we don't think it's a good time that we're getting paid now. We're under tax reform. Tax reform is a tax charge for all those who have higher salaries, for IT experts, doctors. We believe that they need salaries to grow, that it is good to keep them in Croatia. We suggested that Minister Marić be more dissipated and middle salary. That would have been about 800 million kunas another blow to the budget, but at this point it wasn't possible. The minister gave the guarantee means if the situation is like this now it seems to be, and there is an obvious increase in all indicators, then it will go in that direction and we feel that we should and increase the minimum wage, and this government has recently done so. It's a bigger increase than the SDP government has made in three years. So, one decision more than the SDP government made in three years through two of its decisions. The MOST and these governments, headed by Prime Minister Maric, are also clear. And we are prepared for all those amendments that are good to support, but you must understand that certain amendments also have an effect on the state budget. This amendment does not have any effect on the budget, i.e. this proposal does not have any effect on the budget. However, more money will remain in the budget because of this proposal and I see no reason if we all agree that our citizens see us as those who have high wages, who do not make good decisions. Until this perception changes, until the indicators change to keep the pay at the current level. If the indicators are better, then we can think about other decisions. I didn't mean to offend my colleague Pupovec in any way, but he personally insulted me. His line that he has, right now he's gone, it's probably because from election to election, they run from the ruling ones, so he's got a good mileage, and then he's in very good shape, he's got a very good line. So, I'm not like that, I have my own attitude, I'm not running after anyone and I'm not going to run. I will always make my position clear and about all these problems that my colleague Pupovac was talking about, I will speak clearly in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24373	I thank my esteemed colleague, never Grumoji. I'd really like to ask you one more time and appeal to you to stick to the subject and not go back to where we've been and what we've been through. Replica esteemed colleague Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24374	Thank you. In this debate this afternoon, we almost often heard the notion of pulsism. However, it seems to me that this House is also one other notional couple, which is elitism. Can you tell me if you hold this law at least in symbolic form trying to expose the dimension of this political elitism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24375	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Vučetić, for the replica. The answer to Nicole Grmo's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24376	Yeah. So, a message is being sent to Croatian citizens: We know what kind of situation you are in. We know that you don't receive salaries, we know that you don't work, we know that you have nothing to live on, we know that you have nothing to train your children from, and that's why we bring this law so that our wages don't grow, to show that we have hearing for you. I can agree with colleagues from HDZ who say that if we cut the salaries, no one who is capable will go into politics because somewhere else will have bigger salaries. And that's a fact. But it's just not the time to raise your debt wages right now. We know what the salaries have to pay, these people here who are at our service. And we need to be aware of how Croatian citizens live, we need to be aware of what they think about politics and politicians, what do they think of the decisions Mr. Pupovac took part in? And that doesn't mean that this is the most important question, this is one of the most irrelevant questions. And there will be time and there will be room for all the issues that are being raised and colleagues from the Living Wall, which is being opened by counterpart Misic, who are opening up colleagues from the opposition and our partners from HDZ to talk about them. And I think that we should return it means that we have no government opinion, so we don't have to have all the government's opinions. Is there anything we can think of? Let us show our opinion, show our attitude, show our Croatian citizens that we know what kind of situation they live in and what the circumstances mean every day, go to work if they have it and under what circumstances they raise their children's school.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24377	I thank my esteemed colleague Grumoja for his reply. We move on to the next debate, the closing word on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club Mr. Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24378	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here's the word most commonly used today is the word pulsism, you can look freely and the dictionary definition goes about like this, so the political movement, or the phenomenon of giving up to passions, feelings, fears of broad folk masses or something like that, as you take the dictionary. You can see it in other languages, etc. But what I see as populism is dealing with popular problems. So, am I dealing with Hanžekovic and a few other lawyers who, by immoral law, are obeying people, and here... that few of the 4, 5 people, 10, 10, 50, or do I deal with the 300 grand they're carrying out? What is the minority and what is the majority? I think the popular problem is certainly the one that affects 10% of our people. And in this context, I am proud to be dealing with a problem that weighs 10% of Croatian citizens. So if anyone wants to call me a populist, have them call me and let me get that word straight. My personal belief as it is known that Croatian parliamentary representatives have very good salaries for the work they do, if you do this job as well as I think I do it relatively well, then I try to do it hard work, if you don't work hard then it's not a hard job. You come here not to say a word, not to read any bill of pay will anyway come, responsibility is more or less nothing special if you are in large parties. And we will support collectively as we supported and which voting so the other day this law. However, attention should be focused on a few things, it is known that I personally gave up my privilege in the last meeting, so I do, and now it is simply my personal conviction but I must warn here is the problem mentioned just earlier in the debate when we go to lunch downstairs in the mess hall of people who serve us subsistences who work for the General Assembly Office and the Government have terrible coefficients. They tell me some of them went to work at the Constitutional Court, here it is over because there are larger coefficients and there is a similar job. That's 3,000 kuna wages, maybe somebody's got a little bit more. Is it moral for us to have huge salaries and they're so small? I don't think that's moral. That's my personal opinion. Furthermore, the question arises here since the ruling majority, or MOST, which is part of it, is seeking support from the opposition would want to warn of one, dishonesty, irregularity, and that is, above all, when things are on the agenda and what are the working conditions in this assembly? Mr. President of the Assembly of fellow Members Bozo Petrov announced that I do not know how to raise standards, that the situation will be better, but we continue to testify that at the last minute they are able to change topics for discussion, we testify that we are getting the materials too late to read it once, sometimes to change such topics, etc. etc. Well, this debate has already been skipped once, so now it's kind of in the late hour, which I don't think is good, and I think it's one move that doesn't show respect for Croatian MPs, so here's a little bit of Parliament's presidency to respect us not only from opposition that's even harder because we're not at the source of information... Furthermore, something to be warned about is, here's a colleague of the Grbin's talking about trade, a minimum wage law for this salary bill, I'm not going to talk about trade I'm going to talk about altruism it's something much bigger and stronger. We have also supported this proposal and the minimum wage proposal in altruism because we think it is good for social justice and that this is a good direction in which Croatian society should go to reduce our wages and privileges and to increase minimum wages. And after all, that's what we've been up against in the campaign. So I invite all of you fellow MPs to support from pure altruism our initiative on the Immunological Institute to come to the truth in this most important institution of pure altruism. Furthermore, specifically why is this request being submitted here today? I personally don't trust the Most Independent Lists. I've heard from the last call that 6+6, so how much less money would go to the parties, how the arrival would be punished, and the whole last term of it was little or nothing. Now again, some guarantees that have been reduced to some unrecognizable form in a very small amount refer to what was announced in the campaign. So I consider it personal... Thank you just one more sentence, please, that this law is proposed for the simple reason that MOST thinks it won't go away and not because many of them really believe it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24379	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Willibor Sincic, for this final word. We have one replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24380	Thank you, Vice President. Here, at the end of today's debate, I support the final word said by my colleague Sincic, indeed altruism should lead us to vote in this law. And finally here are all those who are here thank you, turn around and take a good look and think about whether this council meeting deserves a raise of wages, if we are currently exactly 20 including the chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24381	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24382	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is a colleague of Bunjac you spoke of the merits, as regards the MOST guarantees I was talking about at the end of my presentation here let's take the National Bank Act, let's take the version proposed by colleague Lovrinović in relation to this current MOST version, and who knows what shape we'll get until the end of the second reading. According to the current proposal, the aim was to make all of these, and I will call them that people who do damage in monetary terms are doing, which are already a long series of mandates there, to prevent them from running again. But what's MOST's proposal doing? He says the era begins now, from now on we count the mandates. So some of them will still be able to sit there for 12 years and there somewhere in 12 years when my son, if God finishes elementary school, then we will be able to remove them from this institution. Therefore, there is no lustration of institutions, and even in 12 years, who knows what will be how much the government will change, coffee will be a state in the country and will come back some third, fifth law when we forget what it was now and impose some new state that will extend them again I don't know how much power. Therefore, that is why I am generally against the rotten coalitions because in order to push through one of my reforms and ask whether I will withdraw it whole or cut it like this proposal was cut, I have to vote 22 other bad laws and work against my conscience, I can't and I won't, and that's why I'm saying what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24383	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Willibor Sincic, for his reply. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-14-0.u24384	The following is the proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, first reading, P.Z.BR.64. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The debate is closed. I am voting on the next conclusion of the proposal for a Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. I would like to stress that the proposed law has not received the majority of votes required on the parliamentary home working body. Please engage in the vote. I would ask esteemed representatives to refrain from commenting. The vote is over. I find that with 68 votes against, 21 votes to and 20 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has not been reached. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. We're continuing the plenary session. Representative Sincic.
