ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u30	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 2nd session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all, please take your seats. This session therefore begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, to remind you, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. I invite you ladies and gentlemen to pay tribute to all the fallen Croatian defenders, all the civilian victims of the war and all the fallen ones for Croatia. - A minute of silence - glory to them! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minutes of the 1st session of the Croatian Parliament were received at the session. Does anyone have any objections to the record? I guess not. Thank you very much. I find that the team has adopted the minutes of the 1st session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We're moving on to the session's agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At your session, he once again seems divided. It's not? The final proposal is divided into a session of the agenda. I put a new point in the final draft agenda. This new point is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 1. proposed by the Advocacy List Bridge Club. Since, in accordance with Article 205, we must first decide on a proposal to adopt a specific law by emergency procedure, I ask you if any of the MPs have any objection to an emergency procedure when adopting this proposed law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u31	Thank you, President of the Parliament. We at the HNS Club think that the issue of this bill is too important, and we think that it should be a minimum procedure, not an emergency procedure for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u33	It should be known to all MPs that before the end of the term of office we have passed nomotechnical rules and the President of the Parliament cannot refer to the procedure of the draft law which is contrary to the nomotechnical rules that we have adopted here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u34	I must answer you, the President of the Parliament must put any motion to the vote, and the proposal can, of course, be accepted or rejected. Mr. Shime Petrina, please. Stip, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u35	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I think it is not correct that the agenda is now only on the benches specifically not supplementing the agenda. Likewise, given the importance of the government's election, which will lead us for the next four years at least as planned, it is equally unacceptable to have material that will be ministers in that government today. I believe that this bill should be left for a better time, perhaps for the next session of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u36	Thank you very much. Here you go. Please, since we have a lot of new MPs, since unfortunately not everyone has given their names, we don't have a seating schedule that's fixed, I'm asking you to introduce yourself just before the announcement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Miro Bulj. I think this law should go into emergency procedure because it's a shame that someone who's been around for one hour or two hours makes a real year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u38	Do we have any other objections regarding the urgency of the procedure? If we don't, I ask you to vote on the urgency of the procedure of this law. Who's for the urgency of this law's procedure that he's urgent? Yes, before, please. The quorum is going to count well formally, of course I should have counted the quorum, but the quorum is visible now from this as many of us as there are. So we have a quorum. I've established that 141 MPs are at this hour in the hall. 81 voted in favour of this proposal, 3 were abstentions, and 57 voted against this proposal. Therefore, the urgency of the proposal has been accepted, and of course it will then be included in the agenda. There were no written objections to the draft agenda I sent with the call for a session. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure shall be deemed to be fixed. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda you have received has been established. I'd like to comply with Article 228. The Rules of Procedure should now read that entire agenda again. I suggest if you agree not to read it in full, but to allow me, as usual, to announce that the established agenda is as I have suggested in the final draft agenda with this amendment, i.e. the addition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, We will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the second session with three new points. The first point is: Proposal for a bill on the short payment of wages on the basis of years of work experience with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, Law number two. Second item of the agenda proposed: Proposal to launch a trust issue to the Minister of Defence of Montenegro in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Proposers are the Club of Representatives of the SDP, Club of HNS Representatives, Club of MPs of the HL, SL, Club of IDS Representatives, PGS,... Radina and SDSS and Reformist Representatives' Club and HSU's Independent List of Stipa Petrina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third item of the agenda is also proposed: The election of the vice president of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club and the HNS's Club of Representatives. The proposal to supplement this agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u40	Here, thank you. We have a quorum, I'm determining that we have a quorum, so we can make a right decision. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the short payment of salary increases on the basis of the years of work, P.Z. No. 2. There isn't? Thank you very much. We're going to the vote. Please approach the vote. The vote is over. So of the 112 present 76 is for, 5 abstentions and 31 is against. I therefore, most of the votes, to say that this legislative proposal has been included in the agenda for the urgent procedure. Here you go. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u41	Mr. President, since the proposal is to include a item on the agenda of voting on the confidence of Croatian defence ministers, and that he has resigned, I propose that we withdraw the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u42	Thank you very much. So that's what we're gonna pull. That was exactly the next proposed item of the addition of the agenda, so there's no point in even discussing it at all. Do any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the third proposed item of completion of the agenda of the second session of the Croatian Parliament? So this is the point of selecting a vice-president, or vice-president of the Croatian Parliament. There's no one here. If there are no objections then this item is included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the addition of the agenda, so with these points has been established. My colleagues and colleagues, good morning! Here's what I suggest we start with today's work. I would first, in accordance with Article 226(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed supplementing the agenda of this 2nd session with 14 new points. I'll read them now. Proposal for a law amending the Act on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 3. 2. Proposal for a law amending the Law on management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 4. 3. (a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War (b) Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. 4. Report on the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, submitted by the Committee on Ethics and Science in Higher Education. 5. The report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out in the HRT Act and the Treaty between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014, is the applicant of the HRT Programme Council. Six. The proposal to elect the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by 43 MPs and MPs. Seven. The annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2014, is submitted by the Croatian National Bank. 8. Half-yearly information on the financial state and degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy is submitted by the Croatian National Bank. Nine. The report on the work of the Committee for the Decision on the conflict of interest for 2014, is submitted by the Committee for the Decision on the conflict of interest. Ten. The report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2014, shall be submitted by the Agency for Electronic Media and the Council for Electronic Media. 11. The report on the operation of HRT for 2014, the applicant of the report, is HRT. 12. The annual report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT for 2014, is submitted by the Supervisory Board of the HRT. 13. Proposal for a Regulation of the Republic of Croatia to comply with the acquis for the EU for 2016 14. Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Representative Peđa Grbin. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. Article 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I'm asking you first to engage to check the quorum. So at this point there's 132. It's a quorum absolutely. So I find that we have a quorum and that we can rightly conclude. We'll discuss these emergency procedures first. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending the Act on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. Three? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Please engage. Well, since there are no objections then it's just weird that some of them were against it, but good. I find that this legislative proposal has been included in the agenda for an emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending the Law on Management and the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia? Do we have any objections to that? We have no objections. So it was also adopted as an emergency procedure. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 2nd session, these are points 3 to 14? I suggest I don't read them again now, if that's okay with you, if that's okay with you? You got it. So if there are no objections then these points are included in the session agenda. By doing so, colleagues and fellow representatives of the agenda have been established and now colleagues and colleagues, if you agree, I suggest we discuss the two points that we have just now placed on the agenda. These are the first points of the proposal to elect the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. The second opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Representative Peđa Grbin. You agree to put that in the agenda now? Thank you very much. No one's against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So the Croatian Democratic Community Club opposes an urgent procedure for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support with the Final Proposal of the Law for a simple reason, the government proposed fiscal guidelines yesterday, the government is in the final phase of budgeting. In point 4, actually in Chapter IV. The draft law unfortunately continues the practice of colleagues who were in the previous Government, which is that, in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act, no assessment and assessment of the fiscal impact of this law has been made. It is mentioned only that an additional 480 million should be provided in this year and 640 million kuna in the following year. And I think that, finally, the professional services of the Parliament should return these proposals to the law because they are not in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The fiscal responsibility law clearly states that the legislator must make an assessment and an assessment of the fiscal impact both in the current year and in the coming years. And since this law will have a fiscal effect in 2 years practically for more than a billion kunas then we think that the SDP primarily continues with established practice as it was the first time they were in opposition. They propose laws that are financially invaluable. They could have proposed this law three, four months ago when they were in power, so let's see what their reaction would have been. I therefore propose that we vote that this law does not go by emergency procedure but goes into normal procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u46	Therefore, we will vote on the urgency of the law procedure under number 3 proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parent support with the Final Proposal for the Law. So now we're voting on the urgency of the procedure. Who's in favor of making this an emergency procedure? The vote is over. 72 v, 41 for, therefore, did not pass the motion on the urgency of the procedure. I therefore find that most of the votes are not an emergency procedure, so it is not accepted. And for other laws for which there were no objections to urgency, I find that they are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Do any of the MPs and representatives of the objection to the inclusion of the remaining points that I have listed in the agenda of the 2nd session, these are points to remind from 4th to 9th of the proposed supplement, do I not need to hope to read them again now again? There isn't. If there are no objections, then these points are included in the session agenda. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the addition of the agenda has been established. Here, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as usual, were always on Fridays before or after the session or voting, I will, in accordance with Article 226(2). The Rules of Procedure shall propose supplementing the agenda of the 2nd session with 4 new points. 1. The report on the work of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for 2015 is submitted by the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. 2. The proposal for a Decision on the 2016 Declaration of Nikola Šubić Zrinski, is proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. 3. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television, the Proposer of the Decision is the Committee on Information, Information and Media. 4. Proposal for a Decision on the designation of a Member State Director-General of Croatian Radio Television, the motion for a decision is the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The proposal to supplement the agenda has already been divided into benches. I ask you to engage to check the quorum to see if we can vote properly on it. So the quorum is 81. Of course we have a quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum and we can make a valid decision. Do any of the MPs and MPs have objections to the inclusion of these points in the agenda of the second session? If there are no these points are included in the session agenda. Thank you very much. That's how ladies and gentlemen the representatives of the agenda are determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u49	Mr. President-in-Office, therefore, the HNS Club opposes the urgency of the procedure in the case of point 1 and related to point 2, so the proposal for a law supplementing the State Border Control Act with the final draft law, as well as the proposal for a law supplementing the Defence Act. It's about the refugee crisis and the refugee situation on the so-called. The Balkan route. As we know in the meantime, the Balkan route is closed. So people no longer come from Turkey or from Greece through this route to Europe. Not only is the route closed, but the EU has also advanced in an agreement with Turkey on a brand-new model of refugee care currently in Turkey. We therefore see no reason for these laws to be carried out in an emergency procedure at a time when there are no more refugees at the border. We consider it unnecessary militarization.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u50	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zgrebec. So you're asking for a vote on those two laws if I'm a good interpreter of what you said, right? Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u51	So as soon as we object to the urgency of the procedure, we should vote. And we are opposed to the urgency of the procedure on all four bill proposals, so under points 1, 2, 9 and 10. We expected that since you have always had objections when laws are passed that do not satisfy urgency in our Rules of Procedure, we expected that the new Government would give the opportunity to discuss any law that does not comply with European legislation in 2 readings. Therefore, we ask that votes be voted on on the urgency of the proceedings under points 1, 2, 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u52	Thank you very much. Therefore, we will vote on all four laws individually on each one. So please, first of all, we will vote on who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure for the draft law supplementing the State Border Control Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 11th? Who's in favor of an emergency procedure? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. 76 for, 1 abstention, 43 against. Thank you very much. I therefore find that most of the votes are accepted. Who is to apply the emergency procedure to the proposal for a law supplementing the Defence Act, with a final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. 12? Please vote. The vote is over. 76 votes for, 45 against, nothing abstention. An emergency procedure has therefore been accepted. Next I ask you to vote on who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure for the draft law amending the factoring law, with the final proposal of the law, P.Z. No. 18. Please vote, who's in favour? The vote is over. 76 for, 41 against, 2 abstentions. Thank you very much. I also find that an emergency procedure has been accepted for that law. And finally, who is for the urgency of the procedure in the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z. No. 19? Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. 77 votes for, 1 abstention, 40 against. I find that the majority of the votes, therefore, accepts the urgency of the procedure and the law. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 2nd session? These are points 11 and 12 of the proposed additions, so the budget, translated? There isn't. If there are no objections then these points are included in the session agenda. By doing so, colleagues and colleagues have been established on the agenda. And now I welcome the ministers who are here. Both ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of our 2nd session with one new point. This is a proposal to show confidence to Mr. Tommy Bear for the duties of the defence minister. The promoter is Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. Please confirm the quorum. Can we see the score? So we have 130 agents. So we have a quorum. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the agenda of the 2nd session? If there are no objections, this item shall be included in the session agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u337	Excuse me, Mr. President, what's on the screen doesn't fit the way we vote. Last time I didn't react, although I voted yes, the white dot showed up. The MP to me has now voted differently showing up on the screen, simply the system does not work but works on its own. That doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u338	Do, Comrade Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u339	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament allow me to thank Mrs. Blažević on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club for the cooperation of the past 4 years and I think this thanks of the opposition club means a great deal to her. So Mrs. Blažević thank you for your cooperation, you've been correct and I wish you what we talked about the other day to enjoy the well-deserved pension. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u340	I am voting on the proposal to appoint Mr Ivan Bukarica as deputy secretary of the Croatian Parliament and secretary of the plenary session. Please vote. The vote is over. Does anyone else have any voting problems? Please tell me. Is it working now or not? Except for one thing we know. I don't see anyone else having problems. No problem with electronics. Well, I guess it works then. Okay. Of 143 MPs 128 voted in favour, 12 were abstentions, 3 against. I therefore find that most votes were appointed to the office of Deputy Secretary of the Croatian Parliament and Secretary of the plenary session Mr Ivan Bukarica. And, of course, I congratulate him on that. [[Applause]] Now I guess we're at the most important point of today's agenda: 4. Presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the vote of confidence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia exercises executive power and is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Republic shall, pursuant to Article 98. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia entrusts the mandate for the assembly of the Government to the person who, based on the distribution of seats in the Croatian Parliament and the consultations performed, enjoys the trust of most MPs. In accordance with Article 110 of the Treaty on The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall propose to the members of the Government a person to whom the President of the Republic or the President of the Republic has entrusted the term of office for the composition of the Government. Immediately after the formation of the Government and no later than 30 days after the adoption of the mandate, the Prime Minister is required to present the programme to the Croatian Parliament and ask for a vote of confidence. The president of the republic entrusted the government's mandate to Mr Tihomir Oreshkovic. Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic's mandate was delivered by the government programme and the government's proposal and you all got it yesterday. I ask Mr Oreshkovic to present the work programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2016 and present it to the Government. Before I begin my presentation, Mr. Oreshkovic, I will invite the President of the Republic of Croatia whom I asked as a guest to come to this part of this point. Give it up. I welcome Mrs. President of the Republic of Croatia and ask Mr. Oreshković to present the programme of work of the Government of Croatia for the period 2016-2019 and present it to the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u342	Honored Presidents of the Republic, Honored President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Representatives and Representatives of the Croatian Parliament. It is my special honor to present to you, as a mandater, the main objectives of the new reform government. We're gonna change the format a little bit, you see that already, so I'll be on my way. We accept the challenges is the main topic, the strategy for the transformation of Croatia. I will briefly present the Croatian context, where we are, which are our goals. The drivers of this transformation, the time frame and the transformation, both ultimately and the summary and the following steps. When the topic challenge is often asked myself in my life I've had a lot of challenges by George S. Patton whom I think you all know, you know the American General in World War II has often used these words to accept the challenge so that you can feel the exhilation of Victoria or accept the challenge so that you can feel the expensive victory. 25 years ago, the Croatian people had one huge challenge and we accepted this challenge and today Croatia is a free country. Today we have new challenges ahead of us and I am ready to accept these challenges, so not just me but that we can all feel the lovely victory again. Context where we are today, where we meet. Yesterday you may have heard, the European Commission reaffirmed Croatia's condition. The main message this June 2015, I somehow pulled out of their comments here. Croatia is undergoing macroeconomic imbalances, requiring decisive policy measures and special monitoring. Six dots were very clear to us, slow growth, growth is about 1.8%, and another growth of 3 plus percent. Late corporate restructuring. We're on our way to some things not fast enough. Very poor employment results, poor competitiveness, a public debt that is constantly growing and poor public sector governance. Croatian situation today in some numbers, and I think you're conscious everyone has already met some numbers of insufficient growth, I've already commented, 1.8% of our GDP is growing, we need to speed it up and increase it as quickly as possible. 17% unemployment, around young people almost 50%. And we all know that some 100,000 young people have already left our country looking for some other future in other countries of the European Union, Canada, America and so on. ... debt close... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 'cause it's growing, but it can, which is mostly my point of view about standards because our standard is falling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we see that GDP per capita falls to cca. Ten thousand 350 euros, about 7% of the last few years. That's what we need to turn around. Croatian citizens are asking us to raise our standards and that is where we should focus. We have this potential again, and we're going to use that potential very quickly. We will focus on energy, tourism and infrastructure. When it comes to the European Union and the European Union funds, we have a 10.7 point 8 billion euros to be launched and activated, and that is up to us. And when it comes to competitiveness, we need to increase exports because it is a key factor in GDP growth. So what's our goal? Very clearly improve economic and social opportunities in Croatia and raise the standard of living for citizens. That's where we're going to focus, that's where we're going to put all our efforts, and we're not going to let politics and other interests lead us in another direction. This is our goal, and we will put all our effort and energy into meeting this goal. When the question of what are these main issues that we can meet that goal, I presented some key questions here. How to accelerate GDP growth, which can be achieved from 2016 to 2020. How to activate and mobilise unused potentials. Croatia has huge potentials that we need to activate for the benefit of Croatian citizens. How to improve the efficiency of the public sector and how to strengthen competitiveness in relation to EU member states that are comparable to Croatia. And that is Slovenia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia. And when we look at competitiveness today and some kind of... We're not where we're supposed to be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, what do we need to focus on? The main word is that focus. In order to reduce debt and GDP ratios, we will add and comment on this. Croatia today and better tomorrow. You all know, about six, seven years we've been living in Croatia, my impression that we are today. We're a young democracy, we're learning. Every democracy has its challenges, but it has a constitution, we are going in the right direction proud of everything we have achieved from sports to culture, a NATO member, an EU member. We should be very proud, I'm proud. I know we used to be critical, but a little criticism isn't bad. Basic values are family, friendship, and human relations. It's in our DNA, it's us, it's Croats. We respect and preserve minorities in our society. We build and preserve our institutions and the wealth of nature and cultural heritage. This heritage is a great treasure and we are blessed with the beauty of our homeland. So we have a lot of pluses, but again, you'd be focusing a little bit on what we need to change if we want this challenge to turn the situation around, major changes. So we'll change the company. I think we should all start and look at ourselves and start changing ourselves. And it will matter if we want to meet these challenges and these goals. Ready to take responsibility and risk. Risk, we know that the risk is sometimes going to fall, sometimes we're going to make a mistake, but it's going to make us stronger. Responsible members of society, here we should keep the weakest in our society, be ready to make important and difficult decisions. And this government will be important, I think it will decide and be ready to make difficult decisions. Convinced of our potential and there is a vital faith, that we have faith that we can and will. So the potential is huge and we need to run it. Learn better. In my 20s, I can say when I was in business, I was never ashamed if someone was smarter than me, that I had something to learn. That was good for me, for the organization, I'm convinced of our country. And in the end, always be curious. Steve Jobs might have said, "Say hungry!" Because it is important that we are always ready to learn something new because it will go in favour of Croatia. Our vision of 2020. Croatia will experience one transformation I call it and we will focus on three key areas: economic growth, competitiveness and quality of life. And here you see we put very concrete measures, so it's clear to all of us where our focus is and how we're going to run the results. When we look at economic results, the average annual GDP growth rate is above 3%. We're at 1.8% today. I am convinced that in 2020 we will be in both 4 and 5% and there are key data for Croatia. Public debt reduction below 80% of GDP by 2020. Deficit below 3% by 2017. This is again one goal that the European Commission has given us, and we need to meet that goal. If we're not ready to do that, it won't be good. So this government will be ready to give anything to reduce the debt and put the deficit on that should be. And with these two combinations, we will then get closer to the mastricht criteria, which is a very positive message for Croatia. With regard to investment, FDI, investment outside and we need to start, open and create a positive climate in Croatia, that the party wants to invest in Croatia. And here we have one target to invest one billion euros about these four years and re-use these European funds and withdraw a minimum billion euros annually from these 10.8 billion I mentioned. And imagine economically, we're going to increase exports by 30%. Again, this key factor for GDP growth, competitiveness and send a very positive message to the Croatian people. In terms of competitiveness, I have often commented on this and in public I have already had these indicators of due business. Today we're 64 in a world of 189. That's where we need to step up, if only we were top 50 in the world. We need to reduce red tape in the public sector, increase the number of smaller and medium-sized enterprises and reduce a few fiscal burdens. And maybe the last goal here is that we have the opportunity to be leaders in energy and here we are to focus on that segment. In the end, what does it all mean? The quality of life will increase, reduce unemployment below 14%, increase GDP per capita by 2000 euros and improve the health system that is very high quality and we can make it more efficient and more skilled. This is where we focus on education and the need for the market. Where we can connect the academy and the private sector. The framework of that transformation to somehow crystallize if I can use that word, we'll focus. The main goal again is to improve living standards, reduce unemployment, socially responsible and productive society. I call them, these are on English drivers, on Croatian transformers, and there are five key transformers: an efficient public sector and I will add little to everyone else's specific competitiveness, investment, European funds, public debt reduction and deficits and education and health reform. And if we could be successful here, we should have... I'd call it an enablers and you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] governance, accountability and transparency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This government will be very transparent and you will see it. So it's clear to everyone where we're going to focus, what our goals are and who's responsible. On the effectiveness of the judiciary, the judiciary needs... so that it can activate changes in institutions, investments, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Information society, we live today as we all know at a time where information is everywhere. ... We're all on every system and we need that technology and IT to use it to help and speed up processes and raise efficiency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Effective tax and monetary policy here we need stability and send very clear messages. And ultimately, a willingness to cooperate. We can't afford to work in silos, but to cooperate together. So we can watch together where these energies are and where we can start in the future. And the last clear communication. I hope this is the beginning, that we will communicate very clearly what our goals are, in which direction we are going and we will communicate. Not only in the government, but that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are very clear which way we are going. Some kind of, if I may publish some of these triggers, I won't cover every one of them in detail, some kind of main messages. An effective public sector, what does that mean? That's where we're going to use how you see e-government, and that's where we're going to look at how we can... processes, reduce processes so that we can ultimately have quality and timeliness of services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In business competitiveness I already mentioned this doing business, it will be a focus. There's some 6-8 indicators we need to boost, and that's where we're going to cut red tape and business costs. With regard to investment in EU funds, 10.8 have already been mentioned by billions of European funds. Here we will focus on what is strategic for Croatia. What is strategic is going to be strengthened, which is not strategically needed to be asked in which way and what to do with it. Or we will privatise and use these resources for better strategic investments that will boost our GDP and strengthen Croatia. The reduction of debt and deficits, the main message is this, in 2016 we will focus and find 500m euros so that we can reduce our debt and send a very strong message to the European Commission, to investors, to agencies that this country is ready to launch and make difficult decisions to continue on the right path. And the same thing about deficits we'll control costs and redistribution of funds to better deploy our resources. And finally reforming education and health care. I've already commented on where we're going to connect and connect the academy and the economic sector so that we can work better together for a better future. And increase the efficiency and productivity of the health system here we choose opportunities in administration and in public procurement. About our whole, that's where I listed you can see, in those four years, our focus is our first year. First wave, second wave and third wave. The first wave where our quick results are that we can focus here and make some decisions. Strategic investment, that's where we focus on infrastructure and energy. I've already mentioned these 500 million euros where we're going to activate that dead capital and cut the debt. In the European funds last year we spent and withdrew some 300m euros, the target for 2016 is 500m euros that we will withdraw and invest in agriculture and regional development. We will reduce the burdens and manage public enterprises more effectively. And here we have some 1300 companies where we need to watch what we can do with it, where we can focus again, strengthen and where we need to look at privatisation. The second wave of 2016-2017, tax assets that are not in operation, that may be here and important, which is not in function, we need to run, activate and put these assets into function to create values for this country and that we can strengthen GDP. The main goal, if I may, is to raise the rating in 2017. This is an important message, I think. We see what situation we're in, we need to send a very strong message and we need to boost the rating because we're too close to the trash and we can't afford to go the other way. We will look for and create a fund where we can activate medium and small businesses so that they can start growth. In every country in the world, a medium and small entrepreneur is the main stimulant for every growth in the economy. I mentioned 500m euros for these European funds for 2016, for 2017 billion euros and we will invest it again in agriculture and regional development. And the health system, that's where we're going to look until 2017 to rationalize that system. Third wave, science and education. The Fund will see where we pull back a billion euros, flexible labour and the efficiency of the judiciary. I mentioned transparency, it's nothing but an example in which we will define our goals very clearly. The second week we'll be on the move, I was already yesterday when I first had a chance to meet with the new government already asked that each minister should be defined within the short term that we can in a year are these quick results and which are our main objectives of medium-term weather. How we're definitely going to look like success and what our main indicators and key indicators are to know that we're going in the right direction. In the end, it's not just numbers, we're social society again, and we have responsibilities to others. A healthy foundation and care for others, help those who need it most. Unfortunately, many of our people are on the verge of poverty, and we need to take care of them and raise the standard. Refugees, a lot of talk these days about refugees, we will consult our partners in the region, in the European Commission, but there is always a vice to protect Croatian interests. In the end we fulfilled a dream 25 years ago, we got free Croatia. Our second dream is to create a modern Croatia that will maintain its tradition and give us and our children a better life. And in the end if I don't ask you now when? If not us, and it's us all, then who? Thank you. And now I'm going to introduce you to the members of the new government. [[Applause]] Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Tihomir Tim Oreshkovic. First vice president with the authority of Deputy Tomislav Karamarko. Vice President Bozo Petrov. Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs Miro Kovac. Defence Ministry Josip Jurjevic. Ministry of Interior Vlaho Orepic. Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric. The Department of Justice of Ante Sprlje. Ministry of Health Dario Nakic. Ministry of Economy Tomislav Panenic. Department of Defense Mijo Crnoj. The Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds Tomislav Tolusic. Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Predrag Shustar. Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic. Ministry of Management Dubravka Jurina Alibegovic. Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning Lovro Kuščević. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts Darko Horvat. Ministry of Agriculture Davor Romic. Ministry of Labour and Pension System Nada Šikic. Ministry of Social Policy and Youth Bernardica Juretic. Ministry of Culture Zlatko Hasanbegovic. The tourism ministry Anton Kleman. And the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature Slaven Dobrović. Dear MPs and MPs, these are the people I am convinced will manage our Croatian well together. Please show us confidence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u343	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Please remain still in place because your exposure caused a series of replicas. We have a total of 11 replicas. All right, you can sit down from where you're sitting. So 11 is a replica, so the first one is the distinguished representative of Peja Grbina. Here you go. Thank you very much, Madam President. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u344	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Oreshkovic, first of all, allow me to congratulate you on the mandate you received for the composition of the Croatian government and also allow me to wish you success in achieving these economic goals that you pointed out because it will not be the success of these governments alone, but it will be the success of all citizens and I think we all need it. And now I'm going to ask you a question, you're coming from Canada, which is a well-known state of rule of law, state of freedom of democracy, and you said that Croatia is a young democracy and that we should learn from the best. And I agree with that, but reading these guidelines from the reform government, I came across something interesting. As part of the Ministry of Defence, which is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the law governing the formation and detour of the Ministry of Defence, I have found a provision that says "The establishment of a safer environment in our streets, neighborhoods, municipalities, cities and counties, the fight against criminal phenomena in our society, the fight against all forms of criminal behavior, i.e. the prevention of threats to the lives, safety and well-being of our citizens, prevention and resolution of local security problems etc. And so on." As we all know what I'm talking about right now are the activities of the Home Office. Please explain to me whether we can expect the establishment of new police forces within the Ministry of Defence or your reform government, as part of which the Patriot coalition is concerned, to introduce order on the streets of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u345	The next replica is that of distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u346	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. As of today, you are responsible no matter who put your government together and no matter where you were, you are responsible for these people. So please tell me that you will explain to the Croatian people how you will explain to the Croatian people the proposal of the minister of culture of man who says antifascism is not the foundation of this state, but a floscule that has no basis in the Constitution, etc., you are informed of all this. You can imagine what your employer, an Israeli Jewish company, would say if you were to suggest to him at the executive post of such a man. And one more thing, sir, here in this pyramid of yours and there's nothing to say about the text, it can only be supported. But, please, couldn't you resist the symbolism of this pyramid, which isn't just a pyramid, it's on the side of parts, the pyramid is broken, and it's still just missing around. An eye as a symbol of the mass symbol of the Illuminati. So I ask you, is this a new one, are you in Croatia's transformation defending a new world order? Because I'm asking you, Mr. Prime Minister, what are the values you're going to represent? Because if you're involved in a policy that has no idea at all, no ideology, then we can see in the beginning that we're going to have in one part of your government the blackest ideology.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u347	Thank you very much. The third replica is the esteemed representative of Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u348	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I listened closely to how much Mr. Oreshkovic's presentation could be done in this marble. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to read it except to read the program because we got it this morning, which is wrong because, I hope from what I've read, we've read enough, what I've heard enough, that I'm enough to say something. I wish you real success, because if you succeed, if this government succeeds, it will be good for all of us. And in that sense, even though we are in opposition, you will have all the support for every good proposal and what is on Croatia's better. You said at the beginning of your exposure that public debt was one of the biggest problems. We all agree on that. But I haven't heard how you're going to handle it except one side of the medal and that's what we're going to do. So you need to increase GDP, increase employment, lower unemployment and more efficient... etc. I don't want to say it again, I agree. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is there anything to be done by others to whom we owe? He says to you in the media that you're protective... the capital and the rich ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not gonna say that, you're gonna show it whether or not you are. But you could at least express a little bit here, how can I say understanding of this difficult situation of ours. That we owe it to each other, but the ones we owe it to should do something about it. They're in the best interest of us being always in debt and paying interest as high as we pay. Our GDP has increased to 1.8%. Great. You say you need more, we agree. But you know he'd have to be three times bigger than he is now so we could just pay interest. Just interest so we can pay a year on those expensive interest and loans. And that's our problem, so our destiny is to work constantly for the rich and you haven't expressed your desire to do anything about it. You know, if you're not looking for a discount, no one will ever give it to you. I worked in business, I never gave anyone a discount if he didn't ask for it and you don't seem to be looking for a discount for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u349	Thank you very much for the replica. Your Honor, I must correct you, however. The program you got yesterday and not like four years ago on the bench before the exposure. You got the program yesterday. You got it, it was on the website, you got the notice, you got the link for it, etc.. So, you got it in advance, not like four years ago when we got it online before the term of office. But the next replica is the esteemed representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u350	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Well, first of all, I don't know if replicas make sense if you don't want to or won't answer, you might end up. My question is that one of your candidates for ministers has said he will make a register of Croatian traitors. My question to you, Mr. Oreshkovic, is unequivocally, are you familiar with the programme's goal of one of your candidates as prime minister? And will all those who robbed Croatia at the time of the Homeland War, at the time of the conversion and privatisation and at the time of any crime in Croatian history find themselves in this register of Croatian traitors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u351	Thank you very much. The next replica is distinguished representatives of Tanja Vrbat Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Oreshkovic, I also congratulate you more on your courage and wish you the same success of your government because it is the success of our country. But I have to be skeptical at least when I see this presentation today. It looks like such corporate brainwashing to me, it's quite bizarre, here's an article that's bizarre to me and that in the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament I first see something like this, very simply sketched, but my God, we'll learn about it. What has been saying is that you have not mentioned any single word of foreign policy or any aspect of foreign policy, or, say, our countrymen from Bosnia and Herzegovina, for I know that many of us here are very important. And not to mention economic diplomacy at all, which will be with that segment and how it will function in the future. What particularly surprised me is this verse that speaks of refugees in your presentation and which says to consult with neighbouring countries and the European Commission. I can tell you right now what neighboring countries will say. Here we will give you and the money just let the refugees stay with you. You become a nice one, a hotspot, a collection center, and we'll even fund you to keep those unfortunate people running from their war areas to stay with you. This I believe you can't stand behind one of these simple lines and please really explain what you wanted to say. You didn't mention regions at all, regionalization. I, as an Istra representative, am really interested in this aspect of your future government as to what you think of it. How about the position of Istria in the Republic of Croatia in the future. And what I cannot kidnap from not asking you, and I really hope you will answer whether you voted in the last parliamentary elections and where you voted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u353	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u354	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, I congratulate you on a job that is very challenging and I also really wish you a lot of success. The same way I and as the entire opposition will be convinced I am a constructive opposition and we will try to help you with our constructive criticisms in your work. For this reason, I would like to ask you immediately today after I must commend that in the vision you said three key areas: economic growth, competitiveness and quality of life. I just want to look back on the quality of life. Because of the numerous calls from the citizens who called me last night and this morning, when we talk about the quality of life, so the modern definition of quality of life says it's crucial to the quality of life of freedom. And the only real definition of freedom is freedom from fear, so I ask you today in your opening statement to make clear and challenge the statements of two candidates in your government, one of whom is announcing some kind of register of traitors who will probably wear yellow ribbons when they walk on the street. And the other challenges antifascism and the Constitution. At the same time, part of your coalition partners announces the abolition of the law, the register, the registration of marriage partners, medically assisted insemination, and also questions the law, the right to abortion. Therefore, these are key questions for the quality of life and you in your clear position where you will say that none of this will happen you will ensure that in this assembly today we are discussing primarily the economy and not these issues that have been given two ugly black spots thanks to the two candidates that I am convinced you were forced not to veto them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u355	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u356	Dear Mr. Oreshkovic, I join the good wishes of all my colleagues and colleagues, those who truly realize that the success of every Croatian government and those you will lead is the success of the entire society and of Croatia as our homeland. I was expecting it, but I'm going to elaborate something wider in my individual step somewhat later much more content in your programming. Because this presentation on the one hand and the strategic guidelines on the other hand are too poor a text to read the real, concrete political objectives of your government. It is not clear to me as well as to my colleague Vrbat at all how it is possible that you have dropped such an important topic as an important policy, our relationship with our neighbours, our responsibility as EU members towards enlargement, our relationship with Croats abroad, our relationship with the refugee crisis and the Schengen crisis. So that's a whole series of questions we haven't heard anything about. We have also heard nothing about strengthening civil institutions, about sending one message of hope to all those who are minority, to all those who are threatened, to all who are in some way depressed whether by their commitment or by their birth that nothing bad will happen to them and that this government is not carrying threats. And in the end, those of you who were briefing you seem to have given you the wrong information and I'm replicating it. This is where you stated that we were on the list of due business reking 64 and that you wanted us to become 50. No, we're 40 and I'm asking you to change this goal and do everything you can to be 30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u357	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u358	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Oreshkovic. Congratulations on the opening lecture, the presentation of the program, and I don't doubt you'll do much of it. Knowing you as director of Pliva we cooperated and perhaps you should have put... George Petona There is only one sort of discipline perfect discipline. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So discipline is extremely important. I hope you listed George Peton primarily as an over-the-counter against faziism, not because of his nickname, a novice of intent that I absolutely think you know what they called him. So, well-respected Mr. candidate for the Minister of Culture, George Peton freed North Africa, freed Sicily, came to Palermo and almost to Croatia, almost to Istria. Excessive anti-fascism fighter. The candidate for the culture minister in 47 minutes of the show Open says, quotes: "Antifashism is not the foundation of this country but of the flossula." Mr. Prime Minister, 10 years ago, in 2005, this Parliament adopted the Declaration of Antifascism, the value of anti-fascism, Croatian anti-fascism, and would not have today two excellent candidates Dari Nakic as Minister of Health and Mr. Kleman as Minister of Tourism if there was no fight against fascism. Perhaps today they would be health ministers in Italy, tourism ministers in Italy, and maybe one of them would be prime minister, maybe Renzi. Therefore, I ask you, regardless of the youth of the candidate for the Minister of Culture of historians, that these statements no longer go public. And of course I expect an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u359	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u360	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Oreshkovic, I am also one of those who believes that when it comes to the expertise of performing such a high function in the Republic of Croatia, it is not questionable. But something else worries me. There is a danger, and many times in life we have convinced ourselves that expertise sometimes doesn't have to be a criterion for a job to be done well. Let us take an example if we come to the wrong specialist at the hospital then there will be very big problems. Why am I saying that? You were saying something about raising income, actually filling the budget, and that's good, that's things that are crucial and that we can agree on. However, when we talk about the spending side, we need to be here to the end of the truth and tell the Croatian public exactly what it is you plan to do. We, our society, have acquired certain rights, people have certain rights that are generally accepted in the Republic of Croatia to say, have become part of life. I was personally intimidated by your statement when you said that you would apply the Canadian model to the health system. Later that statement was a little tempered. There have been other statements when we talk about reforms, about abolishing certain rights. So the rights of employees and their material rights are about 35 billion. That's what Mr. Schucker was talking about four years ago. It's 35 billion peace, the health system 20 billion and something billion. The simple question is what rights will citizens, for which rights will be abolished in the social, health care, other material rights and wages, and I think the Croatian public would be interested in all those working today in the public sector because the words to reduce red tape are not enough. Because what's behind it? That's the key question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u361	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative Ana Komaračić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u362	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I will also congratulate you on the responsible duty you have accepted, but I simply have to ask you and I think the Croatian public is interested in a concrete answer. You were right at the beginning when you agreed to become Prime Minister for the Government of the Republic of Croatia said that a health reform would happen in Croatia, and you mentioned it today and mentioned the Canadian model. I argue that the Canadian model is compared to the model that the United States has much better, but I also claim that the Canadian model is much worse than the Croatian model. IN HIS pre-election campaign, MOST also had the privatisation of health care as one of the campaign points and I will now specifically ask you if there will be a privatisation of health care in the Republic of Croatia? Will our poorest citizens lose their health care? And we got another material called "Key Guidelines of the Reform Government" and here I found under the Ministry of Labour and Pension System another point of your programme, allowing people with disabilities to enter the world of work on the free labour market with the help of assistants, adapt jobs etc. The one who helped you draw up this document simply lost sight of the fact that in 3.12.2014 we passed a law called the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, with quota employment, with penalties for employers who do not employ persons with disabilities. So it seems to me that this material has been written very, very flatly and that it has not been taken into account what has been done over the past four years but has been written by a set of beautiful desires that most of them have already achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u363	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the distinguished representatives of Nada Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u364	Dear President, Mr. Oreshkovic and I will congratulate you on your boldness to lead the team that seems to me from this presentation we can nevertheless conclude that you did not agree on your own. Not only are you not alone but you have ultimately decided which people are going to do what they say about what they're doing, as they said you'd have that right. And I read it, although I will welcome this presentation and the goals you presented in this presentation, these are common goals. And the past government had very similar goals and also projects and programmes to get to them and managed to reverse very bad trends in the Republic of Croatia in the past term. However, I will support you in that all together should be further improved. But what's your problem and what's going to be a problem is it seems to me that you're going to do what you're saying and present your powers. We could make it happen if you had a government like this, this is the Canadian government. But you didn't propose to us today such a government, this quality, and you're going to have a very hard time doing it because these two documents that we have today are ahead of us, and one of these is your presentation, and the other is the "Key Guidelines of the Reform Government". And as you in particular pointed out in one part that you will focus on some strategic projects to raise GDP among other things here I will give an example of energy, however in this document called "Key Guidelines" where a little bit more extensive on the resources explained what the ministries will really do, as far as energy is concerned, is said to put a moratorium on the exploration of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, that a moratorium will be placed on the construction of a thermoelectric power plant. So I ask you on what strategic projects in energy do you plan to raise GDP if your resolution ministers propose a moratorium on these projects in that part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u365	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas, and now I'm going to open the debate. The debate was attended by representatives of all 12 existing clubs at this time in the Assembly, and also at this time 40 individual debates just so that you know how much we will deal with it. And then I would ask on behalf of Mr. Nenad Stazic's SDP representative club to state his views and his club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u366	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Oreshkovic, you have entered the most responsible position in the Republic of Croatia. The SDP Club congratulates you on that, you will have a constructive opposition in us. We will not play unfairly, we will not obstruct you, we will not, as Zoran Milanovic said, carry gas bottles on the road, we will not threaten the citizens, but we will warn you of the mistakes you make, mistakes are human, all of them are, you will make them safe and you, some of you have already done I will warn you of them. You don't know Croatia enough. When you were prepped for this, your opening statement was told by several completely incorrect data. One of them was warned by counterpart Richembergh. So let me start by telling you the exact information, to introduce you to what we left for you, what you came across. Croatia was pulled out of recession, GDP grew 2.8% highest in the EU, the number of jobless people fell, young people were employed, industrial production grew at the highest rate in Europe 6.4%, export sales increased 10.8%, deficit decreased, even surplus in the basic budget of 200 million kuna, order was introduced into public finances, order was introduced into the public sector wage system, tax collection order was introduced through fiscalisation, order was introduced in the social care system, order was imposed in sanctioning illegal construction, 400 thousand buildings was legalised, the number of agencies was rationalised. Citizens on the Internet come up with documents and do business with the state, it's a system of e-Citizens. Tourism has achieved record results of 8.2% growth, EU funds have withdrawn substantial 1.23 billion euros more than paid, wages have been raised to workers through a reduction in salary tax, the problem of the Swiss francs in charge has been solved. We weren't afraid of powerful bankers. More than 600,000 migrants have been through Croatia all taken care of, fed, trained, transported further to Western countries without one single incident, without barbed wire and without an army at the borders. The consequences of the catastrophic flood in Gunja and Posavina were resolved so that all houses were restored either from the foundation built on the cost of the state, over 2,200 houses or over 20 public buildings. No one has left a day without a roof over their heads. Muscular actions have been revealed about the arbitration of border issues with Slovenia and we have come out of arbitration. The fight against corruption was fought in judicial bodies without any political influence. The protection of minority rights, regardless of the aggressive attacks on such a government policy, was protected by those who are now proposing you to be the prime minister, who proposed you. They protected minority rights, the media was free and without government interference. The repressive apparatus worked according to law and professionally according to the rules of the profession without political dictatorship. Croatian defenders' rights have not been reduced, their status has been legally improved. Croatian projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina and elsewhere outside the Republic of Croatia have been funded, the Catholic Church has been funded for billions of kunas. In short, despite all the attacks and attempts at obstruction of the states, it worked. Everything was paid, no one was suspended in the last four years, there was a riot, chaos was replaced by order, there were numerous improvements and the direction of the state was in every respect positive. What the president of the Republic now admits in the end when she says everywhere in Croatia she feels optimism. All this has been achieved without firing, without reducing pensions and without introducing new taxes. It was in the interests of the people, in the interests of citizens, and not in the interest of large capital, not in the interest of the banking sector, not in the interest of others but in the interest of those who live and work here, who pay taxes, which are taught here, in the interest of the homeland in the broadest sense. Citizens recognized it, elections were held, the government of Zoran Milanovic, so those parties that made that government Croatia grow and IDS received 788 482 votes or 36%, the Patriot coalition received a little less than 746 289 votes or 34% in Croatia and 770 000 votes with diaspora, respectively. However, there was also a third option of MOST, which with its 13% vote already falling off 4 of them decided to support HDZ rather than the current government. You know that MOST led negotiations with both of them, you know that it asked the coalition for Croatia to grow place, your place, position of Prime Minister and seven ministries, they got it. When they saw that they had received everything, they had no reason to interrupt further talks with our coalition, they made up that someone had called without telling anyone who had called or who had affected them and ran to where their heart had drawn them. That's legitimate. Anyone can do as they please with their mandate. They took it to HDZ and allowed HDZ to form a government. That's legitimate, but that's why you're the prime minister today and that's why HDZ will return to power. You will be elected to the majority of this House. Two votes here are controversial or should be controversial to you. One vote by Mr. Raskovic, he was elected on the list of National Minorities to defend the rights of Serbs in Croatia and this confidence by Serbs from Croatia that he received took to the HDZ tent. Serbs in Croatia did not vote for him to take those votes to HDZ. He cheated on them. I'm asking you, Mr. Oreshkovic, I'm talking to you, not HDZ, and I'm asking you if in Canada, where you've spent so long, this kind of cheating on voters is the basis for putting the government together, and is that gonna bother you? The second vote that will choose you today is Mrs. Gordana Rusak's voice chosen on the Most list, passed on to Drago Prgomet and then began to ask for money by party, 10 grand for her quasi scientific projects and 10 thousand salaries for Mrs. Sanela Dropulić to be her assistant. She went to Hrelja, Mr. Hrelja told her, but I can't give it to you, and then she found those who would give it to her to the Patriot coalition. This Mrs. Sanela Dropulic was a spokeswoman for MOST but after this transition is signed as a spokesperson for HSLS, it is obvious that the conditions have been met. We, Mr. Oreshkovic, will not vote for your government. There's a few names in it that's been disputed. First of all, the name of Culture Minister Zlatko Hasanbegovic. He said the first move of the new parliamentary majority would be to return parliamentary patronage over Bleiburg and the second to adopt a lustration law. The draft says already preparation of the Croatian Crossroad Association headed by Bruno Esih. Mr. Prime Minister, go to the Croatian Crossroad Association website, open that website, you will be welcomed by a big greeting "To Dom Ready". None, the gentleman says, that candidate for the culture minister who's a historian, and with whom culture has nothing to do with it. Antifascism is not the foundation of this country but of a flossula that has no basis in the constitutional text. I'll read you Mr. Prime Minister constitutional text. In establishing the foundation of the state, therefore the Croatian state is drawing its right to statehood and in establishing the foundation of state sovereignty in the period of World War II is expressed contrary to the declaration of the Independent State of Croatia in '41. in the decisions of the countries of the Earth Antifascist Council of National Liberation of Croatia, I repeat the Earth Antifascist Council. Says this gentleman that the Croats are in... The century won only in the war of '91. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which means he thinks the Croats are at war in '45. They lost and lost the Ustasha, which means he thinks the Croats are Ustasha. That gentleman is a homophone. It says only here can you strut on gay coming under long colors. More than once, he spoke insolently about the ideology of human rights by declaring them an anti-state activity. Until '96. He was a member of the Croatian Liberation Movement, crossing to Croatia a clean party of rights marking April 10th and celebrating Pavelic. Then I guess that's why he's co-opted to HDZ. Mr. Oreshkovic, I'm sure you didn't choose this man. I'm sure they came to you and told you that would be the Minister of Culture. But you didn't even bother to go to Google, to see who that man was. Because if you'd gone and seen what I just read to you, the facts about that man, I'm convinced Mr. Oreshkovic that you wouldn't have chosen him. But I'm inviting you, you can still do it, come out after my speech at the pay phone and say no, I'm withdrawing my candidacy. I take it back, I'm cheated, I'm deceived, Mr. Hasanbegovic doesn't deserve my trust. Or Mr. Oreshkovic, if you do not, I must conclude that you agree with everything Hasanbegovic said, that you support it and that you will give the new Croatian government an adjective that she should not have a Philistine government. Don't do it, pull it, pull it, pull that candidacy. You deserve trust right at the beginning. You had a wonderful candidate Mr. Jasen Mesic, he was a minister, he was a minister of culture, a great culture minister. And now I don't know why you decide between Jasen Mesic and this Hasanbegovic. We have another problem with Mr. Crnaya, he's asking for the publication of a register of traitors of national interests, but he doesn't say what it is to betray national interests. What could that be? Could it be the number of children in the family? Insufficient number of children betraying national interests? Is this a sexual orientation issue of national interest? Is that journalistic writing? It's a very dangerous threat. And if that threat comes true on the basis of Hasanbegovic's policy, then terror follows us. I don't know, Mr. Oreshkovic, if you've been familiar with these Blackie attitudes, I don't think you have, but I hear you've had another candidate, Mr. Miles, I know him because he was in the last council meeting. He was a good, correct representative, and I think he'd be very good at these jobs. Third name, Mr. Buljevic's name. In 2000, he was the head of the POA operation. He brought Helena Pugliz into the headquarters of Zagreb's Poa and exposed her to a five-hour torture. Helena Puljiz says, I remind the members of the PIA at the time, and today the SOAs have been trying to use dirty methods, threats, attempted blackmail and bribery to make me spy on my own colleagues, politicians, foreign ambassadors, intellectuals in the country and abroad as a journalist, and to place dirty stories in the media according to their orders. Josip Buljevic, as I will find out later, says Helena Puljiz, is one of those who directly engaged in the misdemeanor. Right at the time Sanader started his robbery through FIMI Media, but Buljevic did not investigate it. He was after Helena Puliz. I'm asking you, Mr. Oreshkovic, do you mind chasing the press? Is that normal for you? Is this happening in Canada, too, or is that reason enough for you not to accept this candidate? You had Mr. Krstic's great candidate behind you. What's wrong with him? What's wrong with him? Mr. Oreshkovic, I wish you all the best, but this new government proposal of yours is unacceptable to us. I've given you reasons. I'm not gonna talk about you having no electoral legitimacy, not going to the polls. You will have the legitimacy that stems from the will of the majority in the Croatian Parliament. Correct these errors immediately at the beginning and show a little more respect for the MPs who when they ask you questions you despise them and do not answer them Every good thing. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u367	Thank you very much. Before we go to the replicas, I would ask all speakers to refrain from insulting others. The first reported to the replica, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u368	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Stazic. My colleague Stazic, this is what the government's work programme looked like when he was proposed by Zoran Milanovic in 2011. Seriously, it was responsible for everything the government does. You said you got that program on the bench, you laughed at him, and you shook your hand underestimatingly at him. So let me show you how you used to work. This is what the government's work programme looked like when it was proposed by Ivo Sanader, and he was also serious and he was responding to all the issues. We know how it ended after that, though. This is what the presentation looks like when it is represented by the esteemed prime minister Tim Oreshkovic. The main objectives of the finance, economy, health care, administration, deadlines empty, nothing. Comrade Stazić, you are much longer than I am in the Parliament and I would ask you to answer me when the mandater does not want this presentation to be normal and whether this presentation of the Government programme is something that parliamentary representatives and citizens of the Republic of Croatia deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u369	Replicate response, please welcome fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u370	So I can't answer you whether it's normal or insane. I can only tell you that such a thing, such a way of assembling the government has not been seen so far. I can tell you that so far there is no such contempt for MPs, that the mandater does not respond at all to the replicas and questions that are being asked him, and the issues are very serious to the prime minister. Very serious. For example, you say about refugees, say we will consult with neighbours and the EU, and refugees are coming. You tomorrow, if you're elected, your Home Secretary has to take care of it. Well, it won't, there won't be time for consultation. You're saying you're going to introduce a property tax. So the HDZ that nominates you strongly opposed that, strongly opposed the introduction of the tax. You don't answer those questions. I'm sorry, these are important questions. You can't talk to Parliament by saying what you're going to say and then keep your mouth shut. I don't know if you understand what we're saying or if you're having problems with it? Maybe you do. We'll sort it out, that's a technical question. It's a technical question, we'll solve it, but we care about that communication, and we care about you guessing on the first day in the House that you appreciate this institution and that you'll answer the questions of the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u371	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u372	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Stazic, first of all, I must say, your majority has ruled for the past four years, unfortunately for four years, and we will remember what happened in those four years and where we were four years ago. So when the SDP government took over the country's management, we had a drop in tax burdens, we had a growth in investment, we had completed negotiations to join the EU, we had a exit from recession. So, after two quarters of economic growth in 2011, After that, and for four years you managed, you like to boast about the results of the past few months, but in four years you respond, the cumulative score of the SDP government is 2 and a half percent decline in these four years, while some neighbouring countries post-transition growth by 3% per year. You used EU entry exclusively to go to young people. The employment of 80,000 lost places in 4 years. You said it was a job. So where'd it go? In the public sector alone. So it's never been harder to do business than it's been for the past four years. That will be said to you by all entrepreneurs, craftsmen, unfortunately here in Croatia. Who crashed Croatia's credit rating? Well, SDP's government. So no country has been able to enter the EU and then, instead of repairing credit ratings and reducing interest rates to the economy and citizens, you have succeeded in destroying credit ratings, putting it in the trash and increasing interest costs. No strategic investment, you boast of Zagreb airport we will only see what everything there seems to be, but it was started in 2011. That's when the contest was organised, for a year and a half you weren't able to sign the contract. No strategic investment for a country that is a new EU member and whose door has been opened. After the use of European funds, we became legendary. I don't want to talk about it. Well, I'm just trying to stick to the fact. You really need modesty, and I have to tell Mr. Grbino that fat booklet you represented would have been given by God if the results had followed after what you've done. Unfortunately, everything happened the opposite of your plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u373	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u374	My colleague Milosevic, I have presented the information that is official and accurate. And now you can respect them, not respect them, you can interpret them however you want. But don't just count on the forgetfulness of Croatian citizens, don't forget that. In 2011, we took over a completely robbed country. You know who robbed her and that's what the trial was about. And your HDZ party currently has the status of confirmed indictments with a trial that will take place again. So you have a confirmed indictment that you robbed the country. The GDP decline in your period was compared to what you found 10%. You've found positive growth rates, you've knocked them down. What can I tell you now? Look, it's official data. You, at your age of four, can show any way you want, but the fact is that you robbed Croatia and that you reversed it. And the fact is that Milanovic's government fixed it. Is that enough? Well, I wish she'd done more. Well, we all wish she'd done more. But from that mud, from that clay you've brought to Croatia, that was very hard to believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u375	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Tepeš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u376	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues, future ministers, respected future prime minister, I must replicate and warn here about the unworthy behaviour in this holy House, the Croatian Parliament, so some words are made up, beautiful labels, witch hunting, fellow Hasanbegovic is called some fascist names. I do not see why it is controversial in some of his statements and statements, but the Croatian public must know the fact that he is a prime minister, and the future prime minister is talking about the economy, his government is only communicating on how to get Croatia out of the economic fungi that you have brought us into these past four years. And then, you see wonders, who reopens the subject of Ustashas and Partisans? You're opening up! The mandate of the Ustashas and the partisans did not speak. And I don't see what's controversial about the patronage of the Croatian Parliament over the ceremony in Bleiburg? As far as I know, your former president, Ivica Racan, was at Bleiburg. And I don't see what's so controversial about giving away the pies to victims who were killed by a criminal hand. I think we all have to agree here in this Croatian Assembly that every innocent victim is a victim, even if what color the skin was, what nationality. If a crime has been committed against them, there must be a drink to those victims. I don't think the SDP is going in that direction to count blood cells to innocent victims, and one should be honored, and the other not. So I ask you simply to forget these old methods of yours from the age of Communism of sticking labels simply without a reasoned debate because this doesn't make sense. Today Croatia is in economic trouble and you are dealing with Ustashas and Partisans again, returning us to '41 and '45. I'm a historian, it's my profession, but this is the Croatian Parliament and we need to get the Croatian state out of the economic fungi primarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u377	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u378	I was in Bleiburg once. I went there to lay a crown. But when I saw that bunch of people in Ustasha uniforms, then I decided it was the last time I went there, the last time. Because I don't want to be in that company. I leave these men in Ustasha uniforms to you, Mr. New Vice President of the Parliament, with them you celebrate and commemorate whatever you want. Obviously, you love that society, obviously, that society you like and that society you belong to. I didn't talk here about partisans and Ustashas out of pure peace. I quoted candidates' statements for the Minister of Culture. Well, it's not my fault that the culture minister's candidate said that. So it's not my fault that he points to one page, a website where he greets himself with a home ready. Well, I'm sorry, that's not my problem. That should be more of a mandate problem than yours. And the prime minister should say and make it clear I won't, I don't care. Well, if the prime minister said that, I'd give it to the prime minister and tell him to come out and let him say it, and I'll respect him. But as long as he doesn't say it, I doubt if it's his attitude. For you, I know that these are your attitudes, I know that you don't have to prove it to me. You're going to have a chance to show and repeat here for four years, and all the other people know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u379	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Willibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u380	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here we have heard from Mr. Stazic thanking the SDP government, the praises of Milanovic's government, and I would just like to remind him and ask him if you are aware, Mr. Stazic, that all of this you have shown as a success has actually made on debt, you have thrown our country into debt slavery. So I ask you, are you aware of what you've done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u381	The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u382	First, my speech was no praise to anyone. I've brought up facts, and the facts can't be praise or praise, they're facts. You know what lawyers say, lawyers say facts don't need to be defended, facts defend themselves. Debt, debt was recovered and a new debt was made because, of course, it was not possible to repay the old debts immediately. Debts are being reprogrammed and it's the usual thing. It's something you don't understand, Mr. Sincic, but my God, now you've become a representative, you're going to be heading for the state's functioning, and you're going to learn something from it. You'll learn, for example. And that the state must be the rule of law, you know, so that, for example, It must respect court decisions whether we like them or not. I don't like all the court decisions either, I don't like them, but that's why I'm not going there to prevent them from being executed like you. Because what you're doing populistly is denying the rule of law. You think some law is unfair, now you'll have a chance to propose an amendment to the law. Please submit an amendment to the law, for example. about the nuances. So when I move into your apartment illegally and you're asking to depose me, I'm going to invite you to defend me so they don't defuse me so I can see how you're going to look at the dissections. And by the time you learn something about the rule of law, you're an advocate, you'll have to know that otherwise you'll be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u383	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Stazic, you said well, I believe that our prime minister went with the best intentions but that he was not well-described simply to the facts about the situation in Croatia, perhaps even Croatian history. Because by listening to replicas, I can see that even some colleagues who are born and grown up in this country are obviously not sufficiently aware of some facts or deliberately do not want to see some facts. You've talked a lot about what's done, what's to be done, you've talked a lot about the values to be represented and about which we all agree, I guess, if we're talking about a democratic free state. I would remind you here of the motto of the French revolution that hit the foundation of democracy in which we live, which is "Freedom, Equality and Brotherhood." First it's freedom, and Mr. Prime Minister, I didn't hear you talk about it. What will happen to the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, the Rights of Sexual Minorities, the Rights of National Minorities, the Rights of Extramarital Comrades, Extramarital Communities? We didn't hear that when we talked about the quality of life. We haven't heard anything about equality except that the health system is going to change, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u385	Comrade Hajdukovic, I'm sorry to interrupt but you are replicating your colleague from your club to Mr. Stazic, not the Prime Minister. Maybe you're a little confused.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u386	That's right. I'm just running a good practice of boredom, Mr. President. But of course I'm replicating my colleague. So health only for the rich, is education just for the rich? We're talking about brotherhood and we keep going back in time, are we building a future in the past? I think it's all bad. And so, my colleague, what I would possibly complement with your debate with the direct question of the mandate, we have seen that very beautiful pictures of Croatia have visited the world, and these are our officers who care about refugees, will the wire be placed on the Croatian border, will we join the family of the countries that I am experiencing as backward who defend their borders with wire and force?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u387	My colleague Hajdukovic, I am paying your attention to the Rules of Procedure again, you know him very well, not that you are saying this out of ignorance, so don't do it. Perhaps you will want to be answered by the esteemed representative Stazic, he will not. You won't? All right, then. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u388	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will look back at only two things related to the statement, they are related to the Most. So Mrs. Sanela Dropulic was never a spokeswoman for MOST, it is one thing, and the other thing is about running over the Most and stopping negotiations with the Croatian coalition is growing. So one reason for the interruption of the negotiations was to explain Mr. Stazic in a combination society that MOST would be excluded from the game, that after the signing of the contract we would be revoted and simply excluded. I'm afraid so. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u389	The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u390	Dear colleague, I don't know, I really don't know what you're alluding to, what company I'm in and what I said. Was it in front of Charlie or was it at the corner of Draskovic and Boskovic, or on Kvatric, I have no idea what you're talking about, I really don't know. I've never dealt with these combinations because as you know, I've neither been involved in the negotiations on the part of our coalition nor was I involved in it in any way. I've already told you it's your right to take your mandates wherever you want, wherever you want. You knew you were negotiating with us and with them, we accepted as much as I know from the media, we accepted all your demands. And Petrov for the Prime Minister, and seven ministries. What's left to ask for the eighth ministry, the ninth ministry? Maybe you'd get it all. And when you realize, when you realize that you have nowhere else to go and you won't come with us because you prefer them, because you share a worldview with them, I understand it, so it's your right to have some world-class attitudes just because you should have told the voters on the first day, and we're not going to lie to either one of them, so we're going to sign it with the public notary. You should've told the voters openly we're MOST and give us mandates and we'll continue to co-ordinate with HDZ. Although the voters would like to vote for you. I don't see why you don't vote. I just feel good about someone cheating on people, that's great for me and for no real reason. Well, it's fair to say in a political struggle, so HDZ said we'll never go with the SDP and, of course, their voters voted for them. And we said we'd never go with HDZ, so our voters voted for us. But you said you wouldn't cheat with anyone. And don't get out now that you did it because that's what Stazic told Charlie two people I don't know what. Which besides, it's not even true.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u391	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u392	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, your speech was so that, in Croatia, 100 thousand young people have not gone, there are no people who are in containers, all of you have solved the problems. But your speech reads, except the people don't see it, so the people don't see that we're much better off than you said. It's not good for you, you and me at the Most, you won't decide how we're going to work and where we're going to go. Maybe you'd like to give us orders and kick our ass, but you won't. Our priority is what you signed Croatia is growing and the Patriot coalition, which is reforms, only reforms. Your ideological divisions of the breaking of peoples and destruction towards the yet unnamed Government are not good for the future of the Croatian government, the Croatian state, mainly a country that is in grave crisis. Your story about how everything flourished in Croatia while your government was not as accurate as it was before, it's not true. It is time to support what you signed, the reform government led by Tihomir Oreskovic. Because I come from a neighborhood, a cetin area, a mountain cotter, a character is a burned country, no young people, no agriculture, no livestock, no incentives to those areas by law that you have brought on regional development. So take a good look at yourself and support those reforms that you have supported. That's what MOST is gonna be looking for and you're not gonna decide who we're gonna be with or how we're gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u393	The honourable representative will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u394	I didn't say that the situation in Croatia is ideal, that it's perfect, that I didn't say it anywhere, and I don't think it is. I've just expressed the facts that have been made, which has been improved, whether that's enough, is never enough. There is no government that always makes enough because such a government would remain forever and governments are changing around the world. Some change because some groups deceive their voters to promise them something. Sanader offered a guarantee card, so people bought it. They fell for it and he robbed them. And what I can do, they've bought it. Your colleague wrote with a public notary and signed that he would not be with us or with them, and then he went with them. He cheated, so what can I do about what he cheated on, so it's not my fault. I don't share you, I'm just telling the facts. Did he sign with a public notary? It is. Did he publish it in the paper? It is. Did he respect it? It's not. So what can I do? Reforms. Well, yes, well, we have agreed on reforms and we are in favour of reforms and we will support all reforms, all the reforms that the Croatian coalition has agreed with you, we will support because we are for those reforms. You could have made them come with us, you wouldn't have come with us, you wanted to be with them. Well, we'll see what you do. You won't have a problem with us reforming. You may have problems with me because I'm going to remind you how you tricked the voters. And you have to deal with it for four years, which I can do for you. Why did you cheat on them? You shouldn't have fooled them. You should have said let's go with HDZ and O.K., and O.K.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u395	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Millian Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u396	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Prime Minister and all the proposed ministers and ministers. Dear Mr. Trazic, in life as you know, you have a little more years than I do, even though you have more hair than I do, it's not just ups and downs, sometimes you lose, so be in that defeat, or in a democratic defeat, in democratic elections be big and don't go down below. The delusions, the stories and the lies were your Plan 21, which is why we are here today, which is why you are in opposition today. And this is just proof one more time, this is your address today, and I'm glad that young colleague Hajdukovic noticed it, so listen a little bit and younger than yourself at your club. And before you do that, you want to go along with Mr. Pejo Grbino and praise HDZ or Sanader or you won't praise him. This is just proof that you are returning to the past and who has been returning the entire Croatian public to the past for the past four years in the absence of solutions to the current problems facing the Croatian state and Croatian people and the Croatian economy. So it's just one of the equative examples of who's been bringing us back to the past all along. What it is, you mentioned the word of a traitor. I don't know what Mr. Black meant by that term, the traitor's register. As far as I know many of us there were Croatian defenders, as far as I'm aware, you asked for the publication of the Croatian defenders' register. As far as I'm aware in Croatia is being waged by the Homeland War, defensive and liberating, not civil war. As far as I'm aware, this is a Croatian state, not a random state, I hope you're aware of that, too. And if we have already published a register of those who defended Croatia, I see no reason why they should not also announce those who attacked Croatia and who were in enemy troops that were attacking Croatia and Croatian independence at that time. But that's all behind us. Please, Croatian citizens and Croatian public Once upon a time, it's too much of these stories about the past, it's too much of a story about what was before us. [[Intruder: Time.]] Let's talk about what's important for Croatia, for the economy, for the future, for young people and for Croatia to go in a positive direction already. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u397	Please, let's all stick to the weather. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u398	Now, you've put a lot of stuff in this replica of yours. Come on, I'll give it a shot. Go ahead, accept defeat. I told you here the exact numbers of votes received. You are in power today not because you won HDZ but because the Most brought you power. You understand that. Without the Most, you wouldn't be in power. We didn't lose, we didn't win. You didn't win either, you didn't lose. Most brought you power and that's a fact and all people know it, so don't hide it. Don't show it like a big success now. List of traitors of national interest. I don't know who's gonna be on that list, and by what criteria national traitors will be chosen. Maybe Helena Puliz will come to that list. Helena Puljiz, who was persecuted by the new minister, was persecuted by a court and 130,000 kunas of compensation from the Croatian state. And Mr. Bulj, because of you, the Croatian state had to pay 130 000 kuna. Will you return this money to the Croatian budget of the country you love? I'm, uh, registering the aggressor with the defense register. [[Don't do your friend's butt, please. Don't be a friend of yours, please.]] This wasn't about a register of aggressors, it was about a register of traitors of national interest. And who's going to judge what national interests are? Who? And by what criteria? And do you know what it means to publish a list like that? And do you know that it means sending people on the road to get beat up by someone who takes that register a little too seriously? And who's going to answer for that? 'Cause it's easy when Helena Bull pulls on SOA and harasses. But I'm sorry, if her name was published in that register and someone killed her on the road, who would be guilty? You? Are you ready to accept that responsibility? Well done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u399	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u400	Dear Mr. Stazic, in your discussion and presentation on behalf of the club, you mentioned the word uprising, prostitution. It's a little weaker here. Mr. President, it's gonna take a little technical repair to get us here in these last rows to hear better. Well, I apologize if I say something wrong, and you replicate later and say you didn't say it. This is what I have concluded, and probably the Croatian public, that you are trying to stick the label to this future Croatian government so that it will be or is the Pro-Tastian government. This government is not and will not be a pro-government government. I speak as an opposition parliamentary representative. It can only be a capable government or an incompetent government, a government that is able to solve citizens' problems or is unable to solve citizens' problems, which we will see in the coming months. So I'm only replicating in that direction and in that sense, if that's what you're saying. I estimate if you've spoken, and I've heard that word, one of those statements I'm interpreting as an attempt to label this future government as the Prostitute Government, and I just want to deny it. The second thing you mentioned about Bleiburg, you went to Bleiburg and you're not going to Bleiburg. I consider it an opposition parliamentary representative that the Croatian Parliament must and should be sponsor of the event in May of Bleiburg. That's what you said. A matter of your ideological views, but now there are probably new circumstances that will create assumptions that the Croatian Parliament will discuss and make a decision again and take over the patronage of the Bleiburg event on 15 May of all the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u401	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u402	You kind of misunderstood me because you didn't hear right. I called on Prime Minister Oreshkovic to give up the minister, the candidate, to give up the candidate who is obviously, according to the quotes I have cited, taking pro-Statian stances. If he doesn't, then I can understand that he agrees with that, and that will provide the government's label needlessly, and that's what I said. Don't do that, it's unnecessary. What do you need a minister like that for? What do you need that for? You don't have to. Well, you've got better ones. And I mentioned Mr. Jasen Mesic, so a wonderful candidate. Why now, instead of Jasen Mesic, choose for someone who has manifestly pro-resistance views. You're saying the government can be, it can't be prostrate or anti Ustasha, it can only be successful or unsuccessful. That's not true. That's illogical. One government can also be successful, and let's say it's fascist. You got it! He solves citizens' problems, hires them. Well, Hitler came across a huge jobless job, hired them all. In the war industry, though, the war began. But I'm sorry his government from that aspect of economics was a successful government for the Germans. And it's not only the only criterion of whether someone is successful or not, but what is their ideology. It's important, it's important for a society where the basics, the values, represent. And I don't care what values the Minister of Culture will represent, it's not in my country. And that's why it's unacceptable to me. And only for Bleiburg. I think you should go to Badger and to... There were crimes there and there to bow down, and that event in Bleiburg wasn't first controlled by our country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There we can't edit, our police and we can't do anything if they're doing lipstick there for NDH. We can't! But I think that the modern, this Croatian state should not participate in the lipsticks of NDH but should bow down to victims that were innocently killed in Miserable, Tezna and other sites. That's my attitude. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u403	Thank you very much. Here's what we used up the replicas at the club's first exposure. We still have 11 club presentations. Take care of it. Next I'm going to ask my colleague, Miletic, who, on behalf of the IDS, will present the position of the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u404	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to congratulate the prime minister on his expressed confidence in the composition of the new Croatian government. I'll try to make a few views of our club, thinking primarily about the present and the future. The IDS government of the right center cannot support it because our ideological and world-wide differences are simply too big. In addition, over the past weeks, we have heard nothing about two topics that I think are crucial not only for my region of Istria from which I come but also for all of Croatia. First of all, we still don't know what the future government's position is towards decentralisation. And secondly, and more importantly, we know nothing about the position of the future government towards fundamental human rights and freedoms and civil values. In fact, the information that the media has been bringing in over the past few weeks doesn't sound very encouraging. So today I would like to appeal to the Prime Minister or future Prime Minister Mr Oreshkovic today, Mr Oreshkovic, do not let the civilization standards established in Croatia be undermined in recent years and do not question the tolerance and democratic values which are the basis of every modern European state. We've heard, we've been able to read over the past few days to question women's right to choose, to be threatened by a coup against the civil sector, to prepare a witch hunt through the introduction of some registers of traitors. I urge you to block any such attempt to endanger fundamental human rights and civil freedoms. Do not question human freedoms, continue to cultivate multiculturalism, continue to protect the rights of all minorities. Everything else takes us back to the abyss of the '90s, from which Croatia has severed itself. And when we talk about anti-fascism it is enough to look at the Croatian coat of arms, our Istrian goat on the coat of arms and I believe that no one in this House cares about questioning anti-fascism as well as the Croatian Constitution. One who denies antifascism as a value cannot expect to understand Istria and cannot seek support from the IDS. The second thing I want to point out today is the issue of decentralisation of Croatia. Yes, we are talking about economic growth and I believe that every candidate for the prime minister will point out that. But the basic question is how? You pointed out to Mr. Oreshkovic that one of the 5 key steps that Croatia is taking towards economic recovery is to put into function unused state property. In the IDS, we've been talking about this for 25 years and it was just one of the key points of our successful programming platform right on its own. However, this cannot be done if the existing situation in which de facto 200 people here in Zagreb manages the entire state property from Vukovar to Dubrovnik and Istria is maintained. It is therefore necessary to amend the laws implementing decentralisation, which will lower powers to lower levels with clear procedures, restrictions and controls. Here, I come from Istria, one if not the most developed then certainly one of the most developed Croatian regions. Even though we're a small county, we've decided on politic development. We've moved the administrative departments across all the cities of our county. I believe that a decentralisation approach should be an approach that will now allow economic growth. I believe that you are a gentleman who understands the figures, so you will also know the difference between the most developed European countries in which I will repeat, at least 25% of the income remains at local level and Croatia where the income is somewhere around 10% of the resources allocated to all municipalities, all cities and all counties in Croatia. We can strive for Greece, which is the only one more centralised than Croatia in Europe or we can strive for some of the most developed European countries such as Germany or Denmark. I don't suppose there's any alternative here. Administrative, functional and fiscal decentralisation is the only sustainable model of economic growth. The centralized structure of the state as we have today directly inhibits the economic development of all our regions as well as Croatia as a whole. By increasing powers and responsibilities, at lower levels of self-government or regions, cities and municipalities would also increase citizens' motivation to participate in the creation and implementation of local and regional policies, as well as to participate in public control of public decision-making and public spending. I would especially like to stress that decentralisation is not a story that applies only to Istria, it is a model through which all Croatian regions could develop faster and provide better services to their citizens. Istria is just a good example of successful governance at regional and local level, which has provided it with the status of the most developed Croatian region. I will remind Istria has a double unemployment rate compared to the Croatian average and a lower unemployment rate compared to the EU Member States. In addition, Istria has the largest share of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs throughout Croatia. Istrian tourism accounts for a third of all Croatian tourism and generates a total of over 200 billion kuna revenue. His knowledge of how in the tourism sector IDS demonstrated in the past term through the Ministry of Tourism and I think the results are very tangible. I will only mention the freshest, record tourist season in 2015 and an increase in arrivals of over 8%. Moreover, in Istria true European values are multicultural, co-existence, anti-fascism and respect for the rights of all minorities. Istria is a region with a strong historical and historical and cultural identity, which is why its status as a separate region should not be questioned. It's a fundamental question not only for IDS but also for every Istrian. Istria is therefore an excellent model for developing other regions in Croatia. I believe that the further development of Istria needs to be encouraged, not blocked by a tromium and inefficient centralised system. I'll take a few examples that I think are good. Once the ministry controlled the primary and secondary schools in total since it was taken over by decentralisation by regional and local self-government we can compare what schools, sports halls where our children go and what they looked like before. Another good example of decentralisation is the drop of fire at regional and local level. I'm just as sure as I am that it's more quality today than it was before. However, one step that may show that decentralisation is not and should not be a bogey unless someone wants to keep the concentration of power in one center is an example of the issue of works for construction and location permits. Since 2008 it has been left to the regional and local self-government system to function faster, more efficiently, there is no delay and I dare say that corruption is to a significant extent and reduced. We also have bad examples, available to state agricultural land, which unfortunately the past government has centralized by setting up the Agricultural Land Agency. We can see that we missed a great chance of Croatia joining the EU when we could plant the plantations until all the quotas were established and I believe that centralised management simply missed the train and years ago the country was not given to the management of farmers. Mr. Oreshkovic, I hope you will reflect your professional successes on the economic picture of Croatia and will conduct a smart decentralisation of the country. In the end, I would like to appeal once again to those who, in the next day, will assume executive functions so as not to be prisoners of history and primitives, let us not return our children to the darkness of exclusion from pointless debates from the 90s or even worse about the 40s. Let us make sure that all together we create a cosmopolitan, open and tolerated generation that does not have to worry about the elementary existence that is educated in the best universities and which is competitive on the world market. Croatia is on its way to becoming a truly modern, well-organised and advanced European state do not question that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u405	Thank you very much. And your presentation caused several replicas, the first one being the distinguished representative of Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u406	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So, fellow Miletic, agreeing with a great deal of your exposure and fully respecting and accepting the logic that you have spoken about, while I mean the preservation of fundamental rights, the rule of law, the protection of minorities, and here I can fully join you and agree with you. However, I am sorry that the debate went in the direction of questioning the democracy of this government, to question the fundamental values of Croatian society and the Croatian state. Unfortunately, the debate came from fellow Stazic. He accused this government and one of the ministers of being prostitute. Based on what he did, based on what he called on the Association's website Crossing the way Mrs. Brune Esich. This website does not exist, this association does not have the website that my colleague Stazic was talking about. So in well-known style, inventing the thesis by accusing him of building an entire structure based on which someone starts accusing him of being a Ustasha. And we here today, thanks to the SDP, are starting to re-examine the issues we wanted to move away from after these elections. We had a presentation for the first time in Croatian history that focuses on the economy, on finance, on living standards. Instead of having a discussion about it, instead of the SDP Representatives' Club replicating it and pointing to weaknesses, they return us to a world-famous conflict accusing the government of pro-resistance. It is scandalous, it leads back, it is not what the Government and the Croatian Democratic Community will do, we will not allow this type of discussion and this kind of conflict is harmful to Croatian society and it should be removed. And in particular, it's important to keep an eye on these false thesis, these kind of structures and plantings.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u407	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u408	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Miletic, I will be replicating you, not like my colleague Jandrokovic, who replicated his fellow Stazic for this, received no warning as we had previously received a warning. So, I'm glad that you too have looked back on those key assets of a democratic society, and I hope that we will do it many times today so that at the end of the day, I hope that he will hear that he also encourages antifascism, encourages different opinions, encourages women's right to abortion, encourages medically assisted insemination, diversity, bilingualism, and that he is against some registers of fictitious traitors and that he is against the threat of elementary human freedoms. And Istria is a real example of what the whole of Croatia should look like. And I'm glad you mentioned another big problem that I hope we'll hear something today also from the prime minister and that's civil society. So I don't know if you noticed, so it's good for colleagues to hear that individual members of the Patriot coalition announce a drastic cutting of funds for civil society associations, which I think is a direct way to further reduce democratic structures and achievements that we have achieved in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u409	Before we move on to the next line, my colleague Jovanovic, I haven't given anyone a warning yet, I'll give it to you if things go wrong, don't worry, but I haven't given anyone a warning yet. And now the word will be received as a replica by the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u410	Honorable President, Prime Minister. I'm here thanks to all of you who've been stalking me all these years and made me come here. So I'll tell you why I came and why I'm calling. I'm sorry Mr. Stazic came out, listened to a lot of my speeches, so it was his turn to attend this one. Mr. Lorencin's anti-fascism as the greatest achievement in some past wars, I'd say what we've well won with our anti-fascism, our form of anti-fascism that we remember in the last 60 years? Nothing good for the Croatian people. The Croatian people were the most injured. Our anti-fascists misunderstood anti-fascism. They were supposed to forgive and abolize all not just one group, not just one villain who was in the last war if we were to call them that. Everyone had a goal in the last war. Furthermore, the multiculturality of Istria depends on what it depends, on what it comes from, and where it goes? It is easy to be multicultural in Istria where all the layers of society, all those who embraced and went to Istria with their belly after bread found themselves in Istria, Istria is sweet, of course, got a chance to live, to work, to be useful to society. And we in Slavonia also have our national minorities, we have a lot of national minorities, but only one that we always mention, we have both the Czechs and the Slovaks, we have Hungarians, we have many others, we have only one who participated in an armed rebellion. But there are a lot of people in that national minority like Mr. Oreshkovic. We only talk about one Serb national minority who was on the side of the enemy, the aggressor, it is Mr. Bosko Oreshkovic and many others who fought on our side. Mr. Culture Minister, our Hasanbegovic, was also attacked. For what? Because he announced changes. Change of what? Of course, the changes of Oliver Frjić and his like, the changes of those who made an emergency in Mark's square and performed various inappropriate performances. .../Time, time./... Funding associations. Well, of course, the funding of associations should be abolished....../Intruder:
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u411	You've exceeded your colleague's considerable time....produced by anti-Croatianism. Here you go, pal Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u412	You look at antifascism with one eye and we look at other eyes in Istria. For the very anti-fascist movement and historical paternity decisions have made a decision to return Istria to the motherland. And I invite you to come to Istria, learn some of our history, and I believe your view will change, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u413	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u414	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Miletic, I listened to your debate and I'm glad you pointed out some things concerning health care and administration. And I would really like to dedicate my discussion today to what should be so - called. The government's reform plan and I would like to discuss how and within what deadlines our public finances, our economy, our health care or our public administration will change. And I'm going to repeat once again, the columns that talk about how management, finance and the economy or health care will change are empty. The superintendent didn't say anything about it. The mandator who showed that presentation didn't say anything, didn't show anything, didn't give us anything. And I believe that you and I are as interested in whether, within what time limits and how do we change the tax system? That's what it's about, for example, finance. Are we going to introduce a real estate tax? I am further interested in the economy in which this government will address shipbuilding. Whether shipbuilding will continue to subsidise, whether certain things will be done in negotiations with the European Union concerning our shipbuilding and so on. I am convinced that everyone from Pula, from Istria, is extremely interested. Next up, health care. There's nothing here about how we're going to treat health insurance, whether there's going to be health privatisation, but there's also no provision for this government to continue financing the construction of a new pulse hospital, especially after building it. And in the end, there's absolutely nothing about management, and that's important because of decentralisation. We do not know when, within what deadlines or how this government plans to approach changes in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm asking you now, so is that normal fellow Miletic?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u415	After this rhetorical replica, the next replica is that of the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u416	I thank you, Mr. President, dear Mr. Oreshkovic, for your election as Prime Minister of the Croatian Government. And I want to replicate to you my dear colleague Miletic, while respecting your view that you are conditionaling on your position to support the Government of Mr. Oreskovic by further decentralisation of Croatia. But I would like to remind you that you, i.e. IDS, were a member of the government for four years, which carried out a strong centralization of Croatia. We have only in the last year, not us, but the Government of Zoran Milanovic and Kukuriku coalition made a large centralisation of funds somewhere around 18% of the basic assets of local and regional self-government units, so the government took these units of local self-government and IDS whose member you were supported by such a decision. So I must say that you seem unworthy to me when on the one hand you supported this government, and on the other hand, you condition support for the government that announced the decentralisation of Croatia. And on the other hand, it seems to me that when you are unable to support the government that intends to decentralise Croatia that the political worldview is more important to you than the interests of the county you are introducing and Istria from which you come. Because if that were not the case, then you would have gone over these ideological worlds, and you would have supported a government that is made up of the Patriot coalition and the Most and which announces a strong decentralisation of Croatia. And I support you in this intention to support all those measures that this government has announced regarding decentralisation of Croatia and in the part-round of the works, and when it comes to financial resources without which local self-government cannot survive, whether local, whether in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u417	Thank you. Dear Representative Boris Miletic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u418	So I think the most important thing in politics is that if you want to take some time to be credible and consistent because IDS and PGS and the list for Rijeka, we went out on our own to vote in the eighth constituency, we proposed our platform, right to our own, we proposed decentralisation, and we got a success. That's why we and our citizens are doing trust all these years, because we're just fighting for the interests of our citizens. But when we talk about decentralisation, I really had to point out that I am insulted as a man living in this country by trying to deny the Croatian coat of arms or the Croatian Constitution, and we cannot go beyond that. But on the other hand, I wanted to be constructive, not to lead some past battles that were more in debt, less in debt, but just to give the prime minister, the future prime minister how to enable economic development. Yes, IDS was in the government, we had a resort of tourism, not only did we talk but we proved that we just know how to create growth, increase tourism income, increase the number of overnight stays and arrivals of tourists in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u419	The next replica is distinguished representatives of Tanja Vrbat Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u420	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow Miletic, I commend your speech, I am proud as one Istrian when we always get expressions and our values, which unfortunately are threatened today. I cannot believe that in 2016 we can hear in the Croatian Parliament today that antifascism has brought nothing good 60 years in Croatia. I really think you should sanction it, Mr. President. Antifascism is based on Croatian statehood. Today, neither I nor my colleague Miletic nor many others would have sat in the Croatian Parliament today if it hadn't been for the anti-fascist movement and it should never be stopped, because it is obviously in danger today. But I'm afraid that colleague Oreshkovic, Mr Miletic, I hope he will listen to you, he will take your advice, he will be constructive. But I'm afraid he's a nice cellophane, a nice package, one shiny one with a drawer like this, not a word comes to me, that will carry out the interests of corporations and large banking lobbys, and here and there some bone will be thrown to the people, such a register of traitors, some kind of flossula to which we will deal in the media and that will interest and occupy the citizens, and de facto a big, big sale of Croatia and its national interests will take place from behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u421	Thank you very much. Before Mr. Miletic answers, you have no answer. I would like to draw your attention to my fellow Vrbat Grgic that I did not sanction even when speaking out of your ranks in a completely different sense, when the government was saying that Philo is fascist or Ustasha, and I do not want to sanction anyone. I plead here on all sides to maintain dignity, and I have said it once and for once, and now I repeat, that they retain dignity and that such expressions are not heard at all in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. And yet we have another debate between the distinguished representative of Darry Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u422	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr Miletic. As we know in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, there are three liberal parties. One liberal party has decided to support Mr. Oreshkovic's team, the future government of Mr. Oreshkovic. I express my agreement with Mr Miletic and his concern for the violation of the level of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, but I understand that in terms of this media chase that has risen over the past few weeks in the Croatian public space. However, today at the presentation of Mr Oreshkovic, and the reason why HSLS whose member and parliamentary representative I have decided to support Mr Oreshkovic's programme is precisely three reasons shared by all the liberals: the economy, the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia and what is the most important raising of the standard of living of all our citizens. Mr Miletic absolutely understands, however, I can also stress that this existing European level of human rights, the protection of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, will certainly not be undermined. However, she will only improve. If by some miracle, and as we have seen from Mr. Oreshkovic's ops, which is also a person who is acceptable to us as liberals will certainly not come to this. However, if that were to happen, you be sure the voice of the liberals would be heard in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, Mr. Miletic has no need for fear, everything should not listen to what is in the media. We as liberals are not exclusive, we as liberals always allow others to first show what they know and also know and react if any danger comes to human rights in the Republic of Croatia. And finally, about the antifascism in Istria, I'd say none of us have a problem, and we all know what antifascism is, and we know what fascism is and what Communism is. For liberals, they are totalitarian regimes and there is no difference for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u423	Thank you. Dear Representative Boris Miletic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u424	You know, not so long ago history still teaches us to be careful. When Istria was the first to open an office in Brussels, when we became the first member of the European Regional Assembly, it was almost an anti-state element. When Istra, i.e. the Istra County in its assembly, adopted a statute that allowed its citizens the right to use Italian and others in my view of civilization values, the statute was suspended and it took 5 years to fight for the statute to be in force. And he's in effect today. I really don't know if it bothers anyone today that an even Croatian and Italian language can be used in our administrative bodies. I don't know if anyone would mind coming to the Istrian County to visit the Croatian national anthem as well as the Istrian anthem? I think it's one step forward and history teaches us to be careful. That's why I tried to point out to the new prime minister, the new fundamental values we always have to fight over, but on the other hand, to the future. We all care about economic growth and that is why I pointed out what I am holding to, and that is the complete decentralisation of Croatia as a model of future economic growth. They exploit the local level, numerous municipalities, districts, cities that have their own employees who can work, have proven themselves. I think it could just be a lever of the state government going faster and the state would always have a control mechanism and be able to cut its costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u425	Thank you very much. The next word will be given to the distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club and the Reformist Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u426	Dear Mr. President, we have followed the presentation of Mr. Oreshkovic, and we respect the fact that he has focused on economic topics or on one part of the economic topic. But we all know who we are here, as well as Mr. Oreshkovic certainly knows, as in some corporation some economic measures cannot be prepared unless the corporation is prepared to implement them, unless all its policies are prepared to implement them as well. If the state is not prepared and we do not consider the state an equally important element for reforms, there is no guarantee that the economic policy measures themselves will do so. Now allow me a few words to point out in these first 10 minutes before my colleague vice president of the club Mr. Cacic talks about other issues. First, we must create a spirit of tolerance in society because the spirit of intolerance in the last three years is too strong. And that is why it is not good that neither in the programme of the Ministry of Culture nor in the programme of the Ministry of Education we have one word about culture of tolerance, human rights and minority rights. We don't have any words about creation, we don't have any words about inventivity, we don't have any words about what are the best human abilities. National identity is important, but it's not enough because we have to have free people and freedom within the nation. And we didn't read that. And we'll have to read, we'll have to work on creating it. Another thing, legality or illegality, do we have institutions set up to do all these jobs that you, Mr. Prime Minister, rightly wish to achieve? Maybe someone will agree to your measures, maybe someone won't. I'll tell you, we don't. Our institutions are in conflict with each other, the DORH with the police, the police with the judiciary, the judiciary with the Supreme Court. How are we gonna do that? We have a lot of measures in Homeland Security, even a little too much, but we don't have enough on this. Especially if we see that we have two policies, one is MOST's, and the other is the Patriot coalition. Will it be a single policy or two policies? Another thing I would like to say is professionalism and ethics in public affairs, we have not achieved this in public enterprises or in the judiciary or in many other places. It will not be corrected by technical surveillance measures as much as anyone will get objects, as much as anyone will, at which rate they will do it or not. There's got to be some other mechanism for how we're gonna do that control. Third thing, it's nice to hear a call for solidarity but inequality destroys us. 30% of our citizens by some measures are below the poverty line. 15% cannot provide a 7-day vacation either in the country or out of the country. How are we going to do that under these circumstances? 80% of the savings are worth maybe just a few percent of the savings, and we're discussing the franc, we're discussing the blocked and we're not discussing that fact, so the inequality won't be able to change the caritative measures or the measures of a palitative social policy. I wish she was an integral part of your economic policy, Mr. Oreshkovic, or Government. The fourth thing I want to say is underdevelopment. More than 10% of Croatian municipalities live under the circumstances of total underdevelopment, which means 40 and something, of which 17 are those in which minority members especially of the Serb community live. With a bad demographic picture, with no investment and no special measures, it is said in the government's programme that we will maximise this, we will maximise that. We will if I see a special mechanism to do this. Do you have a special fund for undeveloped areas? You don't have it here, and until you create it, we won't be able to believe that you'll spend it. Because in that area of your face, our face, you have three men per square mile in the Udbin area. We have to change that. And in the end, it would not be good for this government to lead you, with a number of ministers who have respectable biography, not in its programme of measures that the previous SDP government and partners had, which the HDZ government and partners had and again the HDZ government and partners. There is no question of refugee returns, no reconstruction, no minority rights, nothing, no way of guaranteeing participation. I understand that many things have been done under the circumstances really specific when negotiations on the formation of the government are on Wednesday, but as counterpart Miletic said, it would be unacceptable to go out, adopt the programme or not to revise it afterwards without actually having elements of the policy of human, minority rights as an integral part of this government. Then all these discussions that were conducted here about certain ministers or their statements or previous works would be far less of a matter of attention than they are now. So we're not going to come to the fact that we have to appeal to the Erdut Agreement, to a letter of intent to guarantee the participation of the Serb minority in the institutions of the government? And there are how many ministerial assistants, how many advisors, in which ministries and so on. It's not like what the liquids are, what the government's liquids have been in the last few terms since 97, when that process of participation started, it's not like we're going to skip it, so we don't need to have our own man who's better than the rest of the Serbs like someone here said. If that's how you're going to do it, it's not the HDZ policy I've been working with since 2006 on here, not a single government. Therefore, we have no prejudice we have a great interest in the government succeeding and we want to help the government succeed but without inclusion, without involvement, without a serious call for cooperation it is not possible. Thank you very much and I leave the word to Mr. Chacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u427	I must warn you obviously you made one mistake, when you share yourself you must report so. It wasn't reported. Only a fellow Pupovac signed up. I'll give you my word now, but in the future, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u428	I apologize for the failure, but the secretary received such instructions, I don't know why she's not a club secretary. First of all, of course congratulations to the Prime Minister, on the opportunity to form a government and I expect, of course, that will happen just like everyone else is probably here today. The theme that has been opened here several times as if it were some sort of argument, in my own court, just doesn't stand. It doesn't matter to me if the government program has 300 pages or 30 pages. Let's be perfectly clear. On 300 pages, you can endless amounts of stupidity and things that you will not realize in what we have often witnessed in this House, this is my sixth term, so I can tell you that I have seen stupidity on many pages, which does not mean that on 10 or 15 or 30 pages you can and you will always have smart things and too many things. I don't give a shit here the thickness of that text, there's some other things I'd like to warn you about. We are an objective country, and often it is said missed chances and it is to confirm by the simple fact that 25 years ago we were at the top of transition countries and that we are at the bottom today. Now, right now, Romania is outreaching us these days. So whatever we think of ourselves, about any of our governments, the fact is that the unquestionable responsibility of politics cannot be challenged, only that Croatia's policy has drawn very close to the best that Croatian society can give. Only about some bright moments, unfortunately in continuity it's not like that. Here we have some people who have been dealing with the economy for a long time one amazing fact is that at stable prices Croatia's GDP was 35 years ago higher than today, 35 years thrown away. Whatever we think is right about ourselves. These elections have shown a desire to change ideological sexes in power, they have also shown a desire to get out of ideological traps, ideological wars that have been largely used as an alibi for incompetence and lack of behaviour, lack of results and return to power regardless of how bad they were in the previous term. It doesn't matter whether it's left or right. The same way we've approached, and we're bearing witness to these same scenes again. Of course, when I say that society, at least a third of society has shown a desire to come out of ideological trenches and to seek change, ability, knowledge, courage, a challenge as Mr. Prime Minister said here, which I highly appreciate, in no way did this third of Croatian society think that it was necessary to bypass or give up the basic civilization values of not Croatia but of the world, Europe, certainly the world as a whole, and definitely the fundamental values of antifascism are, and it cannot be the subject of debate. He can't, and he can't, because that's what our Constitution is about, no matter what anyone thinks or wants to say. And that's not gonna be allowed. Of course we're absolutely clear, it also assumes that respect for the civilization standard of the world and Croatia that every totalitarianism deserves a conviction, that every victim deserves a drink, and that can't be a topic for someone who wants to respect the standards that we've already achieved. And there's no point in coming back to that topic and there's no point in opening up that topic again just talking like an alibi for incompetence. We have a chance, the European Union is here, the base, everyone is responsible for it, everyone here on the left and right. And let's be honest and honest. No, I mean these are facts and it's one of those projects where we've reached the maximum of our political abilities as a society. Okay, it took a long time, but we've reached. In front of us is the possibility of using this capital, of course, we have opportunities that open up to us through the fact of low capital prices, low energy prices, good starting positions of tourism, all of this is true. The mandate is independent of politics, that's great. The only question is whether or not this position, and politics is dependent on it, will use it in a way to be a leader. to impose changes. [[Intruder: Time.]] If he doesn't use it that way, he'll become a puppet. It's just a black white system. That's right. So in the six months ahead of us and we'll have a chance to see it, in six months big things, big projects and big models can be set up. [[Intruder: Time.]] The highways were set as a model in 6 months, then developed and And the same thing with shipbuilding. [[I'm asking you to finish.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Good luck and we'll follow and support maximum with a lot of positive approach, goodwill and for every suggestion, we're open in both directions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u429	We've got more replicas on each of our colleagues. So first, on the presentation of the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac, the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u430	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Pupovac really gave me one occasion worth pointing out. Therefore, Pupovac rightly argues that the objectives and economic and social declared in the presentation of the mandates are not disputed in that part but it is very important to know which mile they are made, socially and stately. So what I'm saying is that democracy is not self-achieving, it's a constant action on fundamental values, on fundamental democratic values. And unfortunately today we are talking more about the civilization value of anti-fascism which is not controversial but all the values of anti-fascism must be contained in democratic values and democratic standards and no one mentions their obligation to protect and develop and encourage social institutions, democratic social institutions and state democratic institutions in order to achieve social, economic goals. It is a guarantee of every freedom, including our freedom in the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Pupovac really said that society is developing so that inequality is an element of freedom, addiction, an element of freedom and addiction. Since I applied for a hearing, I don't think he needs me. I'm going to say something about the declared objectives of the prime minister. Of course, it is necessary to support economic growth, competitiveness of the economy, quality of life, with the preservation of the family and the protection of the weakest objectives declared by both economic and social. The macroeconomic objectives, unemployment at 14%, external debt at 80% of GDP were also declared. But, Mr. Prime Minister, it's very important who pays for these goals. and under what circumstances. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u431	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u432	I would like to thank Mr. President, thank my colleague, Leckie, for his question and comment. I'd like to say next. Perhaps the best example of how we have already announced the process of further deinstitutionalisation today, which is that we have decided that, like a few previous governments, this Parliament is being dragged in and dragged through the mud of public talk about how the unemployed are sitting here, people who have not earned any wages and people who are not worth having any respect for. If we agree that media houses and media tycoons will create, and we will fight to get one plus in public changes assessments and we will not assume our role as people's advocates resolutely defending the Constitution, legality and state institutions, we will come to our own contribution here to deinstitutionalisation as we rarely contribute. We who have been sitting here for a long time in the Parliament know that very well, very well. And as for the total state institutions, unfortunately changes in government, changes in government often carry risks with them the weakening of institutions even where they were well placed. And if this happens with this change of government, then Mr. Prime Minister of your optimism and announcements of the country's withdrawal from the crisis, debt reduction, increase in investment, the growth of the development index will be nothing because there won't be anyone in the IRS to do it, because there won't be anyone in the land books to do it...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u433	My colleague Pupovac's time is up, and besides, you've been in this House too long not to know that the answer goes on the line, not the Prime Minister, so please hold on to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u434	Mr. President, you're a little premature in introducing discipline into this House...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u435	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u436	I don't think you have a basis and that in my speech it wasn't the basis to discipline me, and that's not the best way to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u437	Don't tell me about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u438	I was in the best faith of bona fide talking not only to Mr. Lek, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u439	You can't argue with the chairman, you've been in this House too long and you know it very well. I don't know why you're using it now. It's not your style otherwise. Thank you very much. The next call came a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u440	Dear Mr. Pupovac, you have quite well noticed that this is not questionable how the prime minister directed most of his speech just by putting an emphasis on the economic theme. But you are rightly wondering, so I also wonder what the economic policy of the prime minister, tomorrow's prime minister and the new government will be like. Is he and his government a conservative profit fan or a progressive supporter of general good? The private sector is based solely on profit, the state on solidarity especially in small countries, because if there is no solidarity, such a state will disappear. Therefore, it is our only straw of salvation. In addition, what kind of monetary policy will be in relation to the banks themselves, the financial sector. Are we going to allow banks to continue deregulation? Are we going to support banks to work and operate on money created at work or on money created from money that has black-shaped individuals, families throughout our country, and throughout the world? Because you say progress and you put an emphasis on progress and you ask that question. That's the key question. What's that progress? Will this progress be so if the rich live even richer, poorer because it is not good for life or for survival or for democracy. And what are our ideal anchors like? What are the ideas of the whole policy, then economic policy. It's important for every family, every nation, every country. So, when the question is asked here, will the mandate be independent of politics? No, he must be a political figure of a couple of excellence in every sense you're talking about, which is what the prime minister said only we don't have those clear indications yet. On the contrary, the time has come not just to depolitize politics but for policy politicisation. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Because everything that's abuse of politics is not politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u441	The monetary policy that you have asked your question will be answered in response to the replicas by the distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u442	Thank you, Mr. President, for pointing me to what I need to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u443	Because that's what the esteemed representative asked you. I guess it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u444	Yeah, yeah. I understand that this is an integral part of your business powers to tell your representatives what they need to answer. I'll just say the next one. I hope that the development policy and the policy of leaving the crisis, the growth policy presented by the prime minister here is not such as to deepen inequality and not to deepen underdevelopment. In other words, it will benefit not only those who are already situationed and rich nor those who live in developed environments but who will have all. I trust this because there are ministries such as the Ministry of Regional Development, there are ministries such as the Ministry of Small Entrepreneurship, there are other ministries and, of course, the Ministry of Labour and Social Care whose task is to be corrective and those measures that can forget the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution, and the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution are both social equality and uniform development of the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u445	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u446	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it's clear to all of us that in every democratic society there are minorities the greatest wealth and that the rights of a minority are a reflection of the democracy of that society. Likewise, you said that whenever a change of government occurs, there is one uncertainty and a sense of fear in the minority whether their rights will continue to be equal, whether tolerance will be even greater. In recent years, that's actually what's been going on. From the mandate of each government, minority rights had one standard that was growing and higher. I'd like it to be like that now. And that's why I expect the prime minister to stand by one firm stance on all these stories that trigger exactly intolerance. Unfortunately, in recent days, we have witnessed an unremembered hate speech that appears in the media, which is certainly not the responsibility of the prime minister, but some of his potential ministers have. I hope that today we will hear from him a decisive attitude just when it comes to minority rights. And he will also have a very quick opportunity to say by a concrete decision what he thinks about bilingualism in Vukovar because yesterday the Ministry of Administration challenged the provisions made by the Vukovar City Council, the ruling HDZ opposition with the HDZ revote of SDP, SNS, the SDSS where it abolished the possibility of bilingualism in institutions, streets and squares in the city of Vukovar. The ministry of administration has proposed to the future government to request constitutionality within 30 days to the Constitutional Court and this will be one of the first moves by Mr. Oreshkovic to show what he thinks of minority rights and the right to bilingualism in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u447	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u448	I am convinced that Prime Minister Mr. Oreshkovic not only knows what tolerance and culture of life is in multiethnic environments but also has it in his programme and in his beliefs. From a brief encounter with him, I had the opportunity to bear witness. However, our environment has been really suffering from an increase in intolerance lately, from an increase in exclusion. And we have to be committed to that. Political intolerance and interethnic intolerance can be done in the best way by affirmative action when there are important elements of the identity of members of national minorities and their contribution to national culture, national creation and general development and the creation of the nation, and each has contributed to something. I think we need to talk about this. The second important question is development. Many Croatian national minorities live in the area of exceptional underdevelopment, whether it is Eastern Slavonia, Western Slavonia, Banija, Kordun, Lica or northern Dalmatia. These are all areas that have been devastated by war and have failed to recover and are very, very difficult to recover from. So development policy would be an important element in achieving minority rights. And we hope so. And finally what I said, participation. As my colleague Katazi says, don't just tell us Roma what your rights are, give us a chance to make them happen, give us a chance to participate, give us a chance to be part of the people who make decisions and make decisions. That's what minority policy is all about. So we respect your message that you respect minorities, that you will respect them, but behind that we would like practical policies that would manifest it in real achievements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u449	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u450	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Pupovac, we agree that it is likely that all of us here have an immaculate CV and qualifications that we can only wish for, but you have been in this High House longer than me and I am glad that some of our colleagues who profile themselves as liberal politicians in political life assure us that the standards of freedom, free society as we have acquired in the Republic, will continue to be respected. But I think I'm right when I want to, and not only do I want to, but I'm asking that such guarantees be made by the one most responsible for putting the government together, and that's the prime minister and future Prime Minister or Mr. Oreshkovic. The other thing I wanted to notice you were saying a lot about the continuity of government, or change of government. Well, we've often spoken in this House and in the past, and here in this too is how things have to be a matter of continuity, how we need to work on some things over and over again. And I think one of those things is education reform. None of the colleagues and colleagues have mentioned it yet, but I saw in the program that it writes to stop curricular reform and review the strategy. I think we brought the strategy all together here with great consultations with all the clubs including the club colleagues from HDZ and others who were represented there. This way of dealing with something that should be a strategic document and the interest of everyone I think this government already shows that it does not intend to continue this continuity as it called for while it was in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u451	Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u452	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank you too, colleague. We've looked at what it looks like, what the hints of the future Ministry of Science, Education and Sports look like. There's not everything in them that's supposed to be, there's no such thing as. There is no new scientific programme or development of science and higher education, which is actually a more or less finished matter. As we know, Professor Budak prepared it by leading a very wide, wide circle of scientists. But I have no doubt what the candidate for Minister Professor Schuster will do. Since the man who comes from the academy, since he has a political nerve, what we should just be careful about is ideologiesing education unnecessary. Any invitation to the so-called so-called. values, whether by introducing new ideologies versus those that were before us. I think it is necessary to preserve plurality, to preserve civic values and to preserve what is important for national values as well as for the values of national minorities. But all this must have a measure and knowledge and an educated procedure must be primary, priority and only one that is really important. These are the supplements that actually spice up that and that put us in our national context. But if it were more than that, it would be dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u453	Thank you. And the next will be replicated by distinguished representative Petar Škoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u454	Thank you very much. Here, first of all, through Mr. Pupovac's presentation, I see that earlier predecessors here are discussing the programme of work of the future prime minister and it turns out that the election campaign is not yet over. We had opportunities to discuss programmes and the Patriot coalitions and the Most, we had through these two and a half months to discuss both reforms and all elements. You have all seen that our prime minister presented here a transformation strategy of Croatia with basic directions. Of course, there is much not touched in this strategy and that the programmes of the Patriot coalition and the Most set a framework and guidelines concerning further work and reforms are embedded there and will give direction. Therefore, at this session, we do not expect to discuss these matters. Through the campaign, there was plenty of time and space for everyone to participate. And I believe that you are also familiar with the programmes of the Patriot coalition, that as far as minority rights are concerned, the rights of national minorities that they are maximum protected, that there will be no change in any segment, that maximum assistance will be provided and that surely the prime minister with his associates will also take account in this first session where we need to discuss whether there is something in the programme or not I think it is extremely unnecessary and unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u455	The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u456	We highly appreciate Mr. Karamark's stance, a candidate for the first Deputy Prime Minister, that minority rights will not be reduced but that they can only increase. And that's the basis for the conversation we've had and who we can lead. But what's important in the whole thing is that it's filled with content, that this general formulation is filled with the necessary content and to ensure who's going to implement it. General principles themselves are as good as orientations like all principles, but they must be met with the necessary content that will be applicable and who will be the people who will do so, and how will minorities participate in that? That's what I'm talking about. And we who have already negotiated with the governments of Mr Matesha, and with the governments of Mr. Sanader and Mrs. Kosor and with Mr. Milanovic we know how to do it, and we didn't have it. No matter where we are, whether we are in the ruling majority or whether we are in the parliamentary minority. But things have always been discussed because it is something that is an integral part of not only constitutional but international obligations. So we don't have a bad picture, we don't have a bad idea, we just want the picture to become clearer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u457	Thank you very much. There will now be replicas to the presentation of the esteemed representative Radiir Cacic. She's the real vice president of Mr. Ivan Tepeš's home.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u458	Dear President, I'll have the whole thing, and I answered when Mr. Cacic said it was tied up, so we're talking about that famous anti-fascism again. It bothers me because I am a historian, as far as I know Mr. Cacic is not a historian, I wonder how many papers he has read from a gentleman, or Dr. Hasanbegovic, and I wonder how many representatives here have read the scientific papers of Dr. Hasanbegovic and are imputing him that he is an opponent of antifascism? The other thing, when I listen here, here is Mr. Pupovac and the MPs now already object, Mr. Oreshkovic, who puts a lot of pressure on you because he turns out to be watching that you don't take care of national minorities. I will invite them and you, and I am sorry that, as far as time goes, it has not been mentioned, so it is you who have proposed for the minister of the Islamic Community in Croatia and that is Dr Hasanbegovic. So you are very much taking care of national minorities, and you have set one such honorary value for a culture minister who is a prominent member, a member of the executive board of the Medzlis Islamic Community in Zagreb, so a man who actively participates in organisations. And I think you sent a very clear, strong message especially when we see what's going on in Europe. So, I'd just like to tell you that what Mr. Pupovac isn't exactly responding to the truth and don't let pressure on you because that's not the case, you've certainly respected that part about national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u459	A colleague, Tepeš, was not an answer, a replica to Honoring Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u460	Mr. President, Mr. Oreshkovic is, by all accounts, a very decent man, so I will answer for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u461	I'm sorry, I'd beg your pardon, I've pointed out to my colleague Tepes, he answered, said the line, to Honoring Representative Radimir Cacic, not you. I just drew his attention to the fact that that's not how it works. Well, you don't have to answer, if he wants to, he'll answer Mr. Chacic, if he doesn't want to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u462	Oh, I just wanted to say that it's bad that...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u463	You can't talk, so you've been in this house too long to answer from the scene. Here if he wants to. Here's my colleague, Chacic, he'll answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u464	Here are two words to Mr. Tepes. I didn't really get a chance, and I believe I'm not the only one in this House, to read Mr. Hasanbegovic's papers, but I didn't even refer to it. By the way, history is one of the more serious topics I deal with in life but I'm not a historian, I'm basically an architect and something a little postgraduate from the economy. It is not about Mr Hasanbegovic, it is simply about the fact that I think that no one decent and civilized today in the world, Europe and Croatia can be questioned and that antifascism is a civil foundation, a point. There's nothing to add. If someone doesn't think so, well, no, what can we do, you can't help it. And that doesn't really matter, and I hope that, of course, the time before us will be enough to convince all those who think that Mr Hasanbegovic or anyone else in the Croatian government because it is too important is not on this civilization basis. I expect it will be. Here, so I wish him every bit as well as the entire government. And as for this minority section, never enough issues and debates about minority rights and never enough minority rights. And that's one civilization standard, and that's what needs to be taken care of. So there's no pressure. I'm personally in one quarter, my bank is Slovenska, so I'm not much of a minority but absolutely without the rest I stand in a position that every right of the minority should only be promoted and not derivated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u465	Thank you very much. She reported as a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. I'm sorry it got hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u466	Article 236 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure because counterpart Ratko Cacic, Radimir Cacic, says the question is how will someone understand the civilization and its relationship to anti-fascism. All MPs swore by oath that they would abide by the Constitution and the law. The Constitution states that the Croatian state was created among other things and based on state sovereignty in the period of World War II expressed against the declaration of an independent state of Croatia in the decisions of the National Liberation Council of Croatia. It is therefore an obligation for MPs to stick to the Constitution and to each citizen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u467	You have now abused it, I will tolerate it because Article 236 doesn't speak at all, under God's love, so at least read it before. We will continue to show the respect of Representative Radiir Cacic there is another replica and he will be the distinguished representative of Ivan Šuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u468	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I am very pleased that after 3 hours of discussion someone dedicated 3 minutes to what Mr. Oreshkovic was 25 minutes old. So it's a finding. And with you, I'd like to paralyze about one thing. I'm glad you said everyone contributed to Croatia's entry into the European Union and NATO alliance. Someone was lucky to be in power at the time, so he gave more. Today, however, you heard from the SDP club that in 2011, there was chaos in Croatia. And now tell me who is normal in the negotiations that has to implement certain reforms, that you have to have certain macroeconomic indicators of a country that is in chaos accepting in its wing? ... but very interesting when it comes to the merits of joining the European Union and NATO, then everyone deserves it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is a Croatian problem and because we talk about Croatia so today we have the credit rating we have with all the troubles we have. Because for years we have been told that we are so low because we are in negotiations to join the European Union, we do not know if we are going to implement reforms. So if we've entered the European Union means we've implemented reforms, we've had to... The reward of that credit rating, but if you're talking about yourself being like this and being like this, you remember that peasant when the cow went to sell, I don't think someone would try to say that I'm comparing something, so when they say, "Don't listen to that, if it's such a good thing, I'll leave it behind." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sadly, we use such things very often. But I'm saying, I'm glad you said we did some things together. And I will finish this replica with that part. I'd like to discuss the key things Mr. Oreshkovic has brought out here today, too, on a common platform for the benefit of all of us. Because you know what, only the rich and those who have a good bag are praised with rights and social policy, and we can see that in Europe who has some kind of level. The richest have the highest level, unfortunately the poor have what they have.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u469	Thank you very much. Here will be answered by Honorable Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u470	Of course, Mr. Shuker and I were not once in conflict, but not once we were on the same side about some issues. It wasn't that familiar at times. Let's just say one of those big things that we found ourselves on was the retirement debt that wasn't a little bit. Today it's forgotten, but I'm talking about billions. So, not always today, but from the 1990s to today, I believe that on all the important things, every well-intentioned, every patriot, every citizen of this country should cooperate and support every smart idea, every smart project and, of course, at this point what I can say about what Mr. Oreshkovic was talking about is that a crumb is too little of a challenge. I'd love to see more. Yeah, here's like Goran Beus warned about a failure to do business, but I don't think that's the most important thing. Oh, no? I'd say it can be done and much more will be done to increase exports from a 30% increase. It's just that this space is right in front of us, it's gonna happen. I would say that the level of a billion and more use of European funds, and here it says a billion and more, so it can and only a billion is a little too ambitious, because the space ahead of us is at least a billion and a half no matter what good results we have so far, no matter what we agree. They haven't been good enough yet, but that's a good start. And what's not easy, and I'd say it's well-dimensional is the average of 3% of the rise, and that's a serious task. So, here I'm missing more aggressive ambitions, but I'm satisfied and happy that after 26 years, I first see a cautious and rational, reasonable approach to dimensionaling what's going on, which is good. And once again support that logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u471	Thank you very much. We will now move to the fourth club, which will speak for the Club of Representatives Bandic Milan 365 parties of work and solidarity and representative of the national minorities Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj and Vladimir Bilek, the distinguished representative of Miodrag Demo.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u472	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister of the Croatian New Government, gentlemen of Ministers, Ministers, gentlemen of fellow parliamentary representatives. I welcome you on behalf of the Milan Bandić club 365 parties of work and solidarity and two clubs, i.e. Two minority representatives who are in our club, Mrs. Lekaj and Mr. Bilek. Listening to this careful debate today and our future prime minister's program clearly and loudly said let's let's people get away from ideological divisions, let's finally run for the well-being of this country that's been created I'd say what gentlemen at anti-fascism say, but anti-fascism in the 1990s. It's very nice to write under the Croatian coat of arms when it was created. Many governments have changed here in 25 years of Croatian perseverance. In the name of us who are, here's the talk that we created the Croatian state headed by the late President Dr. Franjo Tudjman, who we have accepted the challenge of the 1990s to Mr. Prime Minister, we will accept him now, we will accept him in the future and our children will accept him. Because this is the homeland that needs to be developed, the country that needs to be helped, that needs to go on. I said 25 years or so. For 20 years I would say systematic destruction in war the first part, the second part, after one privatization of ugly, second in incompetence, third in various things and returning to some other time that we are not interested in. And we are for a challenge, I say we are for the front, so we will be, at least in a year or two of Croatia was in one part in all possible pores as a city of Zagreb one multicultural environment, a European metropolis. I would like Croatia to be in a year like the city of Zagreb and a city with many opportunities, which is the standard of Europe, European metropolis. I would say that we will make one common society in Croatia to be like Croatia a single European state. That's why we're going to give your team you've chosen and who you're in charge of, along with the Most, along with the Patriot Coalition, because we're all patriots here. The patriot that I repeat again three times we love this country that needs to go forward and it's the only one. I'd say we have to get away from the bombers. I'd say in the media, the bombs ended in '95. For years, if anyone knows it, we know it's the Croatian defenders. If we want to go forward and give you support then honor it all together here, and your ministers and your chosen ones. I am sorry that half the town hall is practically abandoned for who knows what reason, it is one insecure Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Let's do a job and then let's all go outside, let's work, let's get committed. Because when you all came to this Croatian Parliament downstairs in the square of Ban Jelačić you saw a display with figures of what a Croatian debt is. That's a warning. I'd like it to stop as quickly as possible because no one will bring it back than we do, and we're in charge and we have to get it back. It's our obligation to those who loaned us. Okay? And so we will believe with our new Croatian prime minister that we will slowly reduce this and that Croatia will be better and stronger, stronger. And in the end, I think, here's not going to take much time, we're for work and solidarity. Our minorities as strong as they are will be stronger too. Why? Because we've been demonstrating this for 15 years in the City of Zagreb, my sector I've been working on for 15 years, and these are Croatian defenders. I ask you to slowly all arrive together on the privilege of Croatian defenders, they are not privileged, am I privileged to sit in a wheelchair? Now, don't use that. We need to get it off these people. And the dead. They say they have large pensions, they have large disabilities, if necessary we will help the Croatian state in these reforms that I have read here which are proposed by both MOST and HDZ and our prime minister. If we have to do it again, we'll give up part of it just to make this country better. I would return to the Croatian defenders, whoever is more and more without reason, say against any Croatian defender first I will come before him here to justify it, always. Because these people created this country, I repeat. At least they deserve a little respect. And don't call some tents and some people who don't deserve it. I'd be the last one to work against this country, because I proved it by the '90s. '95. 15 years in the City of Zagreb. So I ask that we no longer have tents for any of our companies, and I think that our prime minister will do well because it is satisfied, advanced and country that has a future. And I believe in this government today and I believe in myself and I believe in people who will lead that this is the country of the future. Thank you very much for your patience, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. This won't be the last, certainly. We're here to support and accept your election, Mr. Prime Minister, with your team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u473	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club and the party of work, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u474	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected prime minister and members and members of the team, I welcome you all together and here is a congratulations to the Prime Minister on the mandate and on accepting this great challenge. I sincerely hope you can achieve and realize all your visions. The presentation could have been satisfactory, and I agree with some colleagues who say that it is not an important quantity, but that it is an important quality, as well as in the number of pages of the presentation, but what I think about today, perhaps in one part of the rest of the citizens, are those life, fundamental issues and answers to those questions that citizens are really struggling with. Because when we talk about economic growth, when we talk about competitiveness and the quality of life, the question is what citizens are reading and what they hear, and what they're talking about directly. If we talk about economic growth on the basis of your presentation, but also on the basis of key guidelines for government reform, we see that economic growth is primarily expected thanks to foreign investment, thanks to investment and withdrawal of funds from the EU. When we talk about competitiveness, we read from the guidelines that competitiveness will be achieved by reducing parafiscal burdens, that this same competitiveness will be achieved by better and better quality financing of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and as you yourself have announced one of the key to the economic development of each country as well as Croatia. However, when we talk about economic growth, economic growth and competitiveness, we have not mentioned workers and their rights in any way. Foreign investment in Croatia has always been the boredom and restructuring of companies and privatisations of state-owned enterprises always meant firing workers. We didn't get an answer if it's going to happen in economic growth right now? We are talking about increasing the employment rate, however, in parallel to this, we read specifically from the Ministry of the Interior that the administrative staff will be reduced and operational discipline increased. Where are you going with the administrative staff? So these are the questions that I expect at the end of this debate in your final presentation you will indeed try to give some answers to these key life issues. When we talk about competitiveness, we all know how competitiveness increases. Among other things, competitiveness also increases by reducing wages because our imput and our highway have a greater price difference. Does the government mean to raise minimum wages, and I would like to hear from you a concrete response in its term of office? If so, and whether, thanks to the increase in minimum wages and the increase in the untaxable work of personal deduction, we will allow those 30% of Croatian citizens who now live on the poverty threshold to still have slightly higher incomes in order and thanks to that, we will further accelerate this economic growth without focusing solely on foreign investment and foreigners by increasing economic growth. We are talking about small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and we are also talking about more favourable funding conditions through funds, but we are not talking about decentralisation, we do not have an account of whether municipalities and cities and we have heard them from how many municipalities and cities in Croatia are currently under that development index having financial resources, human potential to respond quality to these challenges in the guidelines and these challenges are very, very concrete. Efforts from European funds not only through the state but through units of local and regional self-government. I'm afraid at this point, in all municipalities and cities, we don't have enough human potential to accomplish such tasks. Honoring exceptions, honoring people who do their job well. I come from Istria, I repeat, we know what we're talking about, we know how long we've worked to get to this level of development that we have now, but I'm afraid that a large part of the citizens in the Republic don't have their own mayors, mayors and professional services that can respond to this challenge in these guidelines. The only decentralisation written in the guidelines is the one in the Ministry of Social, Social and Youth Policy, which is in the sense that social welfare will be run by local and regional self-government units under the control of the ministries. We don't have other stories about decentralisation of money. What saddens me is the fact that there is not a single word in the paragraphs of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System about workers, not a single word. So it's a key ministry to take care of workers and the only question of the workers being mentioned is where it's mentioned is in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship where it's talked about the flexibility of the labour market. Flexible labour market means, as a rule, the reduction of labour rights and the abolition of certain collective rights that exist now. I think we must take this seriously, and I think that you, as future prime minister, must give concrete answers to these questions. Today we have heard in this House a lot of debates and various things, but what is a fact has at one point been resented to criticise your programme and to try to marginalise it with certain members, or members for the future government. I'm sorry, but the agenda point is to represent the government's programme and trust. We hear in the media that you are the person who has decided which ministers, or who will be sitting here today behind these benches. I sincerely hope you did it. Because if you didn't do it as prime minister, you won't be able to respond to these challenges that happen every day. You're walking the minefield. The statements we hear in the media have nothing to do with the programme and the goals that you have set, which are three important goals of economic growth, competitiveness and quality of life. Your ministers say other things. It is less important whether the statement was made by Mr Hasanbegovic, whether the statement was given by Nancy Tyreli or given by Oreskovic. The point is that we have for the candidates ministers who will swear in a few hours, who will swear to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and what I fear is that people who have such reflection, who give such statements, will respect the Constitution from its first article to the last. It's him who's worried and it's not your fault. And that's what's bothering me. Have you really chosen those people for whom you will not have them under control and for whom you will not be able to guarantee that the work will work the way it should. We're talking about expertise. Today we have extended the agenda to the point of amending the law on the rights and duties of parliamentary deputies. The two resolution ministries, the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Justice are within the scope of the MOST political party. We are only discussing the rights and responsibilities of Parliamentarians who are state officials and are not in the package solving other laws concerning the same state officials. So a segmental approach like this by emergency procedure just to give some kind of message isn't good, it's falling into the water, and it's never been shown on this subject in such a way that we've had good results. We have a big problem in Croatia and it is that every 4th year we simply reset as if we have never been and as if no one has ever done anything good. It costs us, it costs us all these 25 years. Anyone who's been acting in power over the past 25 years has left something behind, left good things, left bad things behind. Good things need to be upgraded, we need to build them to be even better, bad things need to be fixed. If we're fighting over what someone left behind, we're going back and we're not going forward. And I think we have to take care of it. We can't say today that for the past four years nothing good has been done, something's been done and good, it's been bad, it's been good. And I think if we go this way to talk, and we see it from these guidelines where your team members, or you write with them what you're going to do in the next four years, according to the resolution ministries, and as your plans, wrote that you're going to do something that's already done. And that's where I put again what my colleague Ana Comparić Devcic said to you, an example of the right person with disabilities based on work. So it's something that's already been done and it's not the only example. In these guidelines, there are other examples that you have stated that you are going to do and that is already alive, it already works, and it already has its own life course. And if that's the way we set things up and say that we're going to do something that's already done and we're talking like this casually and we're not saying that we're not giving citizens a message that you as a trust-seeker in the next four years really want to do. I believe because I am the person who is eternally optimistic that you will do much but I am also sure thanks to the experience I have had these past 3 months in negotiations with the Most that you will do it very, very hard. In this whole story of negotiating and negotiating for HDZ, we know what he thinks, which is, how he sets things up, but for the Most, I'm not sure we know what he wants. I'll only list three things. The signing of a public record act that does not oblige anyone, talks against the chair and chairers so that today we will be here in front of your members, for your team we have a quarter of the candidate regionality of Metkovic or the surrounding area. I really do if we're talking about expertise and we're talking about people who are professional, here on the right hand side of the day we've heard a few names. I repeat, I see more people who have been very professional to behave in this ministry and to implement the reforms in the way MOST has been saying for 3 months that reforms should be implemented. What MOST has been blackmailing and what MOST has set as conditions in these guidelines does not exist. I take it for granted, and I give the MOSTs the right to be principled, but I'm afraid that what they fought for and what they said will be very, very little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u475	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused 7 replicas. The first one will be the distinguished representatives of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u476	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Tyrelli, in most of the debate you had, I agree with you, and I think you've singled out a part that is for, even if those who have read these guidelines are very visible. So we are discussing today a government programme whose component are actually these key guidelines, as the reform government is called. You have well noticed that if you read these guidelines then of these reform measures which were sworn by members of the Patriot coalition and the Most through what is planned to work in the ministries there is no "r" of these reform measures. However, what you should also say and you have seen excellently, these guidelines are filled with some of the jobs that will be done in the ministry, and have already been spent for many years not only by the Government of Zoran Milanovic, but also by the previous HDZ government. And yet, when you look at these guidelines, you can see that someone really messed up the pots, and then the jurisdiction of one ministry suddenly shifts to another ministry. An eclectic example is the Ministry of Defence and what it says inside what will be done within the Ministry of Defence and what is definitely coming out of the framework of the defence ministry's action. Flexible labour market. Well, isn't that within the Ministry of Labour, the pension system if I'm not mistaken. Here I am looking at the future minister, not to say that when it comes to who and how to talk, etc. Then unions aren't mentioned anywhere. So, we have a government, we have employers, at a number of places to talk to them will be discussed, and the unions in these guidelines and the bogs and in what he presented the future Prime Minister is not mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u477	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u478	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, fellow Sobol for the replica. So, no mention of much. I'll start from the end of your debate. It is not mentioned, therefore, that no civil sector is mentioned, and that is what I was trying to warn the minister, prime minister, pardon in his debate. A lot of what you put in the guidelines and what you put in your presentation, the goals you have in contrast with what we hear from your future ministers. And that's what gives us the right to be suspicious that you'll have the ability to control in a quality way everything that happens. And colleague Sobol warned of one very important thing – the overlapping powers of the ministries in these guidelines is very visible. You said you'd focus somewhere in your programs writing, focus, focus, focus. If the Minister of Entrepreneurship speaks in his resolution on the flexibility of the labour market, and this is not said by the Minister of Labour, and she does not have in her job description any vision that should be taken into account there will be no collective bargaining, nor will the workers exercise their rights under the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u479	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u480	Your Honor, this is how we've been talking about one topic all morning, I'd like to get back to this debate a little bit. Most of us know that the Berlin Wall fell, it fell a long time ago, some didn't fall in their heads. Secondly, you've all heard Resolution 1481 of the Council of Europe talking about totalitarian regimes that is communism. Is there an anti-Communicator in there? What are we looking at today? We're looking at a replica of the former state? Why do people run away from here like they've run away before? Here's what we've got today, the tampon we've had before today. We have a dysfunctional state. Where is the rule of law, legal security? Who will invest in a country where basic human issues are not resolved as private property? 10% of the catastra was introduced into the land of the catastre. Who's talking about it? You're talking about investment. In China, 70% of investments are from diaspora, outside the country, which is half a communist country. Where is the Croatian diaspora? Nit has representatives here you can call Croatian diaspora, they are not Croats from BiH, it is a constituent people. What do you got? You have paralysis to the audience who is 66 on the rank of corruption, nepotism, kleptocrat and remember the South yours went bankrupt in '83. We're going in the same direction. Why? Because there's no analysis whatsoever. We're in the middle of something here. Why do we have a dysfunctional state? You're sitting in a courtroom of people who've been judging people for four and a half years for reading the paper. Is that your kind of antifascism? Where's the lustration? That's what I'm asking you. And other things who's going to invest here when you have a state ex here that's more on... It looks like a real state of law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u481	Thank you. Most of this wasn't exactly about what Mrs. Tyrelli was saying, but she still wants to respond to that replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u482	Well, here's my thanks to the General for the replica, for the announcement, and I'm glad he said something else to the Prime Minister that I failed to do. I hope you heard this from nepotism to foreign investment, to the entrepreneurial climate that... in Croatia and please attribute it to my debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I don't have anything to replicate because I don't think I've talked about lustration or a lot of things I've heard in my replica but they weren't mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u483	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u484	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Tyrelli, since you are from the Labour Party, you spoke about the work and the need to make the work more of a place in the Croatian Government programme, which is of course crucial. You were talking about a competitive economy. Three are actually pillars of a competitive economy. These are innovations, entrepreneurship, intellectual capital, and our main goal is to make the labour price lower and make the labour fee higher. It is actually a basic formula that should ensure a competitive economy. But what's particularly important is intellectual capital, knowledge. And knowledge is about the education system. You said there were a lot of reforms that were said to be gone. And unfortunately, one reform that has really started as a right to reform by no means involved in politics, with key people who are the basis of a public tender chosen because experts say stop the process of curricular reform. Here I see a few people here, the future secretary of the administration also directly participated in this, the Economic Council is the President of the Republic who supported this legislative reform. So I will also talk about it later, if there is an appeal in this assembly not to stop the curricula reform but to continue on the principles on which it is set.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u485	The answer to the distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u486	I thank you, Mr. President, and your colleague Jovanovic for the replica. I agree, the curricula reform needs to be continued because that's the only way I think we're going to have exactly the intellectual capital we deserve. Because we've been creating this intellectual capital for decades and creating it our whole life. We don't create it overnight, and we don't create it, and we don't create it in one term of government. So that's something that needs to be long-term and that we all have to agree on. But that's another problem, and that's another question that today's prime minister has to give some kind of an answer. And according to the government's guidelines, it's going to end. So, we spent money on something, we did something, the public debate went and we talked about expertise, the profession said it. The curricula reform was not done by politicians, it was done by the profession. And it's on the trail of that prime minister of what you say will be heard and that you will also gather experts on your team. As far as the curicula is concerned, please read it, look at it, see the résumés of the people who worked on it, and see that teachers, teachers, educators, said what they thought about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u487	Thank you very much. The next replica is distinguished representatives of Karoline Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u488	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Tyrelli, if I understand you well, so in your debate you pointed out that the mandater is not responsible for the selection of candidates and candidates on his team, therefore for the positions of ministers and ministers in the new government. You have amnested him in this way by responsibility for the actions and words of candidates and candidates for ministers. I can't agree with your thesis. So I don't agree that the mandater is a puppet at the end of the Patriot coalition and the Most, and his mother confirmed it in a recent interview. So the prime minister was also entitled to veto and had the right to decide last on who would be the candidates for the most responsible functions in his government. Of course, he had no opportunity to meet all the candidates and candidates in the way they should probably. He may not really know who all the people sitting here in front of us in this assembly are because he just read their names today. So today, he hasn't told us here in the assembly a single sentence about each of the candidates or candidates, too little of course, for the future government. But that's Mrs. Tyrell's progress because yesterday at the press conference he actually just shared the papers with their names, so he didn't even read them. I just can't amnesty him out of responsibility for choosing my team.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u489	The distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u490	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with one part of you colleagues, and one part I don't. Now I'll tell you why. So, it doesn't matter what I said today, it's important that the prime minister said yesterday at the press conference, and he presented his members as Tim's team. So, your team. Our mandate comes from a corporation, comes from a business, understands what it means to be a manager and understands the conditions in such a business. That means the first man in business is responsible and responsible for those people who are underneath him. If we say that the mandater is only guilty and we don't put responsibility on any individual I fear that these individuals future ministers, especially some after all we've heard from them, will take the right to do nothing because they've been chosen by the prime minister. But also if we tell the mandater and give him the right to fence in one part of the fence because man doesn't know these people, because I suppose all their statements haven't been read in Croatian media because in Canada he probably hasn't read all of our media and introduced people with whom he's going to sit here today and represent them as his team players I give him the right to make a certain reserve. And that's the only hope I still have that he's like a businessman who really wants to start an economy, a man who doesn't want to deal with ideological issues because he keeps telling his ministers and members of his team to really start living the economy and to forget to talk about whether antifascism is a floscule or not antifascism and to forget to talk about making any registers that I suppose they don't even know what they mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u491	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative and vice president of this House of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u492	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, the Prime Minister's candidate. Comrade Tyrelli, I'm replicating your concern. I don't understand where and with what arguments, where you got the strength for those arguments of concern for our prime minister as he got these poor here ministers candidates, he doesn't even know who they are, he'll answer for them and all the concerns you've expressed here. Well, look, our prime minister didn't finish the evening political school, so now he's come here to get caught in the Croatian government and here's the lucky one he's got some pay that's going to be cut even here by suggestions and here we are saving him. Well, he's a proven expert, he's an expert who scored a rating at the world's strongest company. Dad didn't recommend him there. So he was recognized by people by their work, by their quality, by their success exactly that, by the leadership of the strongest teams. He's proven himself. So I don't think you should be worried that the poor prime minister, won't listen to these ministers, if you've looked at both our ministers and their CVs then you've seen that they're experts each in their field, and the man proven a world expert who didn't come here to be arrested and earn a salary but came to help Croatia, one noble act. The son of our emigrant which is also valuable to which we can thank, the return of the evicted Croatia. So we're giving him support, and here I'm calling you as a reasonable woman, and you've proven yourself many times in good attitudes, support our prime minister, support this team, and they'll, as you've seen in a very short time, show the result.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u493	Thank you very much. We'll hear the answer of the distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u494	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, you have confirmed that I have the right to fear for certain matters. You said that ours, I highly appreciate our mandater, I read his CV carefully, and I have no doubt that Dad didn't recommend him anywhere. But that's exactly why I'm worried, does he understand, that he's done everything thanks to his ability, does he understand what happens now that Dad recommends someone? So was that dad and the young person of 30 and what year? That's what worries me, that he unfortunately doesn't know and understand the opportunities that happened here and that are still happening. I respect the prime minister, the future prime minister, I respect his CV, I respect his work experience, the results wouldn't be much, because the only thing I've read about is how many Pliva had employees and how many she had after he left is the only item that worries me and that's an increase in that competitiveness that I've talked about before. So that's what I'm afraid of, and all the rest of it, I don't think he's even aware of who dad recommended and who came by his dad's recommendation or regionality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u495	Thank you very much. Now we will hear the replica of the distinguished representative Ana Komaračić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u496	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Tirelli, in fact, you kind of called me to point out one more thing here. After two-and-a-half months of public negotiations, where strong reforms were agreed, paper was found in front of us, or a set of papers saying key guidelines for the government's reform were found. And then when you go to read the areas that interest you, and I'm interested in the area of health, the area of people with disabilities going through all the areas, I find what you and I have pointed out in your replica, to allow people with disabilities to enter the labour market that we have done, but the next point is to stimulate employers to hire people with disabilities. And then I get the information from 2014 that tells you that in 2014 411 employers hired 1180 people with disabilities and received from this country an incentive of 21 million and 400 thousand kuna. So that's what we got. So we didn't get anything new here, and that's what worries me. We have promised great reforms to this people, and we have nothing new in this document. And another thing right now is the European Handball Championship, and I'm asking you, if we win any medals about how many politicians are going to go take pictures with our valuable boys or girls who bring us medals and who are the promoters of Croatia? Do you know how much sport this document is talking about? Not one letter, not one letter. Health reform I'll repeat, we don't know we're going to privatize it or we won't. We don't have another letter here. Will we, will we privatise health care and will our poorest part of the public be left without health care? If we privatize health care, only the rich will be treated.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u497	I'm asking you to finish. Here will be answered by distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u498	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank my colleague Comparic for the replica. I think we all agree on that and anyone who's read these programming guidelines no matter what option he's reading from, who might be a little longer in politics and dealing with certain resolutions, reads that we're saying that we're going to do something that's already been done. You've mentioned only one single number now, so 21 million and 400 thousand kuna, if we play it under radar like that, if we don't have control over the rest ministers, if we respect these guidelines as they say and let the ministers determine our jobs, we lose 21 million kuna every time, and we talk about rationalization, reducing public debt. And that's what's wrong. When I say that every fourth year we reset, that's exactly what we lose in four years, an awful lot of millions of kunas from curricula to people with disabilities, to other projects, to making strategies and paying external associates to make quality strategies as experts. And then we get other programming guidelines where we re-read new strategies and new strategies and new strategies. A strategy needs to be done. If we're talking about rationalising public administration, so we're coming into a situation where certain people write a new strategy every 4th year, spend time, spend resources, create a cost which is contrary to what we want. And that's what I tried to warn you that good things are taken as good, that good things continue to go on, that what wasn't right is being fixed. And when we talk about reforms, there's not much reform here. A lot of things we've been looking for can be changed by the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u499	Now, on behalf of the club, it will share the time, on behalf of the Club HSU and the List of Stipe Petrina, the first respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u500	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected future Prime Minister, respected future ministers because for now you are only candidates and I don't doubt that you will be ministers today, whether tomorrow morning, whether at some point tonight, that's less important, but that will happen. I must admit that this is my fourth inauguration of the government and that never the ministers, or candidates for ministers, were so permissive and played with cell phones. In doing so, I must commend this left hand side of me to listen with much more attention to what is happening here and to speak. I believe they're not comfortable, that they don't listen to everything, but that's their duty, that's their new duty. Of course, I will look back as I usually do on what was given to us on the benches, what was given to us as material and as a presentation and as the key guidelines of the reform government and I will say my observations. So in this presentation where it says we are and what we want to become tomorrow, it says point 2. That we are proud of everything we have achieved. That makes us proud, that we're narcissistic. And if we want to change that because it's impossible on a personal level or on a collective level that we can be proud of everything we've accomplished, life is full of mistakes and nobody sitting here on an individual level is very proud of all the moments of their life and can't be. So if we want to make it right then point 6 must be changed as a major change we need to learn from the better, we need to learn from our mistakes and be self-critical of ourselves. So much for this part. As for this second material, the key guidelines of the reform government, this is the first time we've gotten this kind of material on the bench that's being discussed today. So far, all governments have shown in the unity document, it was the coat of arms, it was the government's work programme for the term of office, that and that. This paper in shape shows something else. The mathematical dictionary put this paper in shape is a union of gatherings, a gathering of the Patriot Coalition and another set of MOSTs. So it's a list of wishes both of them, so mathematically speaking union gatherings. So that doesn't show the dimension of this government's unity. When we go into an analysis of what is inside, this paper proves that it is not respected the formation of ministries as it is so far under the law which is valid because it cannot be that the working legislation will be dealt with by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, crafts and whatever. It can't be. It can't be that the ministry will pass laws relating to pension rights if we have the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. So he can't just go into some other ministry jurisdiction. According to this material, there are very few words about both trade unions and workers, but of course millions and 200 thousand people living in Croatia from past work. So almost directly they're not mentioned but they're almost indirect. And I think the government has to take care of that. And so far, the government has said that their rights are the last line of defense. We expected an extension, at least an extension of such a policy. But there's no such indication in these directions. Does this mean that we who are representatives of the Retirement Party can be concerned about what will happen tomorrow? So, colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to give my support to this government because I've voted for the government three times now when it's been established, unfortunately because of these strangers, because of the contradictory attitudes of the pension system, because of the world's differences I won't be able to vote for this government, but I wish her full success,... We understand each other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's not about the reforms we signed if they're the way we said they'd be supported by us. I'm experiencing this government, and I want to paint how I see them as people who are going to pass a driving test tonight. How well, how sure they will, how quickly they will drive depends on the amount of their will to learn new, to learn, because no one was born to become a minister. So in any case, there is a difficult learning process ahead of them, it will certainly be effective for those who are open to the process. Because what they've done so far is only partly similar to what tomorrow's obligations will be to them. So we're going to be polite, we're going to be a constructive opposition, and we're going to support everything that's worth it and what goes on in favor of those groups, especially that we represent, and now we're going to continue our colleague, Stipe Petrina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u501	Thank you very much. Now the continuation of time will be used by the distinguished representative of Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u502	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm also taking the opportunity to welcome you and congratulate you on your choice. I welcome the Prime Minister, I trust the future Prime Minister, I welcome all candidates for future ministers, I welcome my fellow Members and fellow MPs. I thank you for your confidence in what I have here a chance to speak. The presentation "Accept the Challenge" is a good presentation to the extent that we would be the participants of a seminar held by Mr. Tihomir Oreskovic. I agree with that. It is not good to the extent that this is the programme and guidelines of the future Croatian government that will decide according to all things, if God would normally be for the next four years and whose guidelines will depend on the fate of every resident and citizen of our beautiful. God has truly given us that ours is beautiful with many comparative and advantageous advantages to be better than what we are right now. Had there not been a need for a man from business, a man on the side, a man representing a typical representative of large capital, I believe that Croatia would be much more successful today. My projections of Croatia were being created, we will be at least three more successful countries in Europe. Well, today, unfortunately, we're at the beginning. I want a lot of success, Mr. Prime Minister, and I want success for all the ministers, because the challenges you face are really hard. The only thing that makes the state a state is the rule of law, the legal basis. Today, Croatia is unfortunately not a legal state. Unfortunately, in Croatia today, the legal system does not apply in its territory of the Republic of Croatia. I am saddened that in this presentation "Let's accept the challenge" only with two words says about the situation in the judiciary, I will quote an effective judiciary. Oh, no, gentlemen, there is no justice in the Croatian judiciary today. Today you have feudal lobbies in the judiciary that interpret justice, laws that suit them regardless of the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia and regardless of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So, at all times, the legal system of the Republic of Croatia is breaking. I therefore strongly resent my colleagues at MOST when they put in place an emergency procedure to amend the Law on the Rights of Parliamentary Representatives. I agree, gentlemen of the Most. Well, I'm the first in Croatia and with that I repeat myself which river Croatia will be better if we can get the strength out of politics to throw out the money. And that is a prerequisite for all reforms, that there are indeed those who care about the Republic of Croatia, and not those who will seek a destination here in the Parliament. So, the condition for this country to succeed, the preconditions are judicial and judicial reform and this should be a priority today. Remember, the Republic of Croatia loses annually at the European Court of Human Rights and I am the one who won as much as 7m euros. If you turn it turns out to be a circus of about 20,000 euros, 20,000 a day. I think it was more of a priority than it was, but it was on your soul. One more thing in good faith, Mr. Prime Minister, which I resent. There's not a word about social policy, a word about organised crime, the fight against organised crime. You must understand that today Croatia is in the midst of institutional organised crime and that is an irrefutable fact. There's not a word about it here. How will we give our words if we see that the members of this government are at least on reasonable suspicion that they are part of organized crime? Social policy. No one here since the previous speakers or here in the presentation "Accept the Challenge" has said that at this moment more than two million Croatian citizens are completed. So, the executions are put, no one's talking about it. No one's saying there are 380 thousand people who are blocked, no one's saying a word. I wonder how these people's problems will be solved that are done at this point and the people who are blocked. We know that this country and this population are burdened by these loans that are murderous. Is there power this government takes over what is essential until the problem of Croatian citizens' credit obligations with currency clauses is resolved to create a moratorium without paying interest to all citizens. I think the citizens of this country would support it the most. Why do I say that? Let's say I have, unfortunately, but also to honor the experience that I am the only man in Croatia who literally pulls himself out of the midst of banking slavery, or financial slavery. I think these are topics that this government should be throwing about, and dear colleagues are not dealing with what they've been through so far. Who cares more about who's who and what way 50, 60 years ago? Please step away from that. We have a future ahead of us. I believe and especially wish the government success, I believe that one day we will move away from the past and move on to a new future. And finally, Mr. Prime Minister, one well-intentioned remark. On page 2. 14 of your presentations you wrote, "If not now, when? If not us, who?" In good faith, it's my 2009 slogan for the county assembly and I quoted old Johnny Henry Kissinger's father who told his son John Fitzgerald Kennedy when he was startled why he would run to the election and say, "John, who if we don't? When if not now?" So if you're already quoting it, please, as you quoted here Mr. Scott, Patton, to put it in the best interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u503	Thank you very much. We have two replicas of the first exhibition, so that's the honorable representative of Silvan Hrelje. He's the first respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u504	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I've been listening very carefully to your presentations, and I'd like to point out something to you, and that's the problem if we didn't get any answers today. Among other things, I myself asked the prime minister a very, very specific question which of course there was no answer, and now you have asked it. And I hope that after your presentation, the mandater will take advantage of his business opportunity and engage in this debate because there is an extremely important issue here for over a million Croatian citizens. And that's the question of the functioning of the pension system. In point 9 of these guidelines of the reform government under the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, the pension system is mentioned and this is the whole one single line that reads, I will read it is not long: "Enable a stable and secure pension system". How? With what money? From where? Will money be taken from the second pillar? Will the state be telling the second pillar funds how to invest money? There's nothing to be said about that. And this is not just a question of social security, it is an extremely important issue of the economy and the functioning of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. We are talking about billions of kunas from the first and the second pillars. And the other thing is extremely important we haven't heard a single word about the 2016 Budget. And why is that? Because, already in the 2016 Budget, certain things concerning pensions should be identified. And that is why, since the already respected Mr. Oreshkovic, the prime minister does not want to take part in this debate as a man who has been dealing with the pension system for many years, please help me find an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u505	Thank you. The esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u506	My dear fellow coat of arms if I had all those answers then I'd probably be sitting there, not here. But I expect Mr. Oreshkovic will eventually take advantage of the business opportunity to explain certain issues that come from the MPs. Of course, I would be happy if instead of this formulation that you have read in this material, what we have written, so the level we have achieved in the coalition negotiations Croatia is growing with MOST. So, I think it was agreed by the Patriot coalition that a public debate would be held on the second pension column during 2016. The opportunity for such a debate is already here in this House on Thursday when the 10th item of the agenda is likely because we will discuss the Report of Mandatory Pension Funds and their business for 2014. So I invite you all to get involved in demystifying what a retirement savings is, which is her character, and that everyone freely express their views, not to speak through the papers, through the media, that we can replicate here, conflict attitudes, have an argument. I don't think I can suggest anything, except to suggest, I'm sorry, but I can suggest to the Prime Minister whenever he wants to, but his right is whether he wants to answer the questions of the MP or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u507	Thank you very much. And the second is the replica of the esteemed representative Darko Paric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u508	Thank you, Mr. President. My comment concerns the presentation of Mr. Prime Minister Oreshkovic. Namely, the presentation itself is fine, quality and good and says a lot and looks a lot like a corporate presentation. But what bothers me in this whole story is the incoordination of the presentation that you gave us as a prime minister and from everything it says in the key guidelines of the reform government written by all your future ministers and ministers. So I'm going to show you a very simple example. In your framework for the transformation of Croatia, where the main drivers of transformation of 5 transformers are listed, I will give you a key indication of which are: effective public sector, business competitiveness, education reform and health systems. One of the main activists to achieve any of this is to inform society. And I'm convinced since I've been listening to some interviews from the prime minister that he's absolutely aware that without informing any of this is not going to happen. But what is the problem, from my perspective, in the document of the key guidelines of the reform government that you gave us and from which I hope your presentation came or vice versa but definitely should be related to each other thematically either there is no word about information or digitisation that HDZ represents in its programme but ultimately it is the same thing. Not a single word in a single ministry, not even in the Ministry of Administration which has an e-Croatian which should in principle be a key segment for the implementation of all of this. Well, I wish you good luck definitely, not just because of you, but because of all of us in government spending four years or how long it's gonna take, but I'm afraid we're gonna crash on the first step today because already today, two documents that definitely have to come out of each other are unorthodox and what it says in one don't say in the other. So I'm afraid it's only going to look like in the future when we start doing a serious job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u509	Thank you, colleague Maric, and I draw your attention that this should have been a replica of the presentation of the distinguished representative Silvana Hrelje, not of the mandate. I ask you all on either side to understand the replicas of the institute because he is so imaginary and you know it well. But he still wants to answer the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja. Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u510	Well, Mr. President, this replica is touching my presentation, given that I've been looking back at the presentation, etc. I'm not saying that 100% covers but it's okay and I want to answer. I don't have any dilemmas that these are two documents that were made separately. So it's not two documents that are synchronised which is not good. Because the presentation is an ambition for the text to be a picture. The picture speaks more than 1,000 words and, of course, all of us who do this work to connect these two things and then look for the stops for what's shown in the picture. I hope that these presentations will continue to work in a way that what it says in the content will be safe and in the presentation and will be connected, I would rather give well-intentioned criticism than take this for evil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u511	Thank you very much. The presentation of the esteemed representative Stipe Petrina appeared with a replica of the respected representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u512	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, fellow Petrina, you said in your performance that the challenges ahead were difficult challenges when you spoke to the minister. On the other hand, the document of the key direction of the reform government, I, when I look at this and open a special page of the Ministry of Defence, the whole program is reduced to four points. So the challenge will be even harder because we have no clear plan to be clear. On the other hand, there are no more words about the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, no mention of the guaranteed monthly fees, i.e. the provision of which was strongly insisted in this home and also in the tent. There is no mention of a number of other things, and especially in this case, I must stress that there is no mention of any concern for the missing. Croatia is today looking for 1573 Croatian defenders missing, and I think it certainly deserves a place in this document at all costs. What will happen to the projects under way, the Veteran Centres, the Home of Croatian Veterans in Lipik? There is no single answer to these questions in the key directions of the reform government. If this is a reform that will be carried out by the Ministry of Defense, you know what the old people say, "If it's going to be worse and it's going to be worse, then you better keep it this way." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u513	In the future, I will give you my word, of course, but in the future you must contact me if you want an answer to the replica. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u514	Thank you. We're still new, we're learning. I agree with Mr. Vidovic, he could have done more while he was on the Defence Committee. In particular, this country must take care of the care of Croatian defenders because if it were not for Croatian defenders, I believe we would not be sitting here today. I'm glad the defence minister's candidate has highlighted as one of the priority registers of traitors. Here I am, unlike many of you, agree with that, and I will support it in every segment. But he would ask the future defence minister to put those, or pardoned traitors, in a special place in that defence register that sold arms and ammunition in 90 and 91, and who smuggled oil to enemies during the war. That's what I think, I think that's the most attention he deserves in that traitor's register. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u515	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to the next club, and that's the HNS. On behalf of the CNS, too, a respected representative of Nada Turina-Đuric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u516	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, a respected candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, would like to congratulate the Prime Minister's introduction on the courage of Mr Oreshkovic, given that we know and are informed about what environment he comes from, means from a business environment. A man who was apparently successful in his work to engage in the sphere of politics, or to accept such a great responsibility as the government of a country. Your presentation, meaning your programme that you have presented to us today, is something that we, as HNS, as liberals could essentially accept as a program in which it is actually talking about only some of the goals that should be achieved in the mandate. And I think that in that programme, that is, in those objectives that you've set for us today, it's a little bit controversial, that most of us in the assembly might accept it as something that we're going to be working on and what we want to do, that we want to work on for the next four years. This is what we expected of you, of course, given your résumé and what has been announced that you will offer with your knowledge, your abilities, your skills. We even thought at one point that if the composition of this government were to be of the people, who would be proposed, decent, if I could say so, we should think about being at least abstentioned to support the government. However, unfortunately, here these days we are witnessing, although I suppose most of the candidates who are here today in the benches may have been 10, 12, maybe even later found out that they are actually candidates for ministers. And there's a big problem for HNS. One problem is that, of course, they didn't actually participate, or most of them didn't participate in making guidelines they're going to have to implement tomorrow when they're elected. But the problem, of course, is their legitimacy. So I will put the whole story back a little bit, and I will return it in the post-election period means the results of the elections that were 0:0 or 1:1 or whatever 59:59 and long-term negotiations with MOST on which option it will adapt, or which option will join to form the parliamentary majority and to form the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We were convinced that with the result that we had and with the support of some other MPs who had given us hope that the majority would realize that MOST, colleagues from the Most, with their reform proposals that we agreed on in the majority, would, however, support, that colleagues would continue to support the government that had absolute political legitimacy and in the context of which it was and planned in the future means with those same people, with a well-known direction in which we want Croatia to move forward and move forward. However, despite the fact that we accepted everything and despite being on the trail of everything that was sought, perhaps further than what was in the programme Croatia was growing, what happened means that obviously those who are leading a group of these independent representatives in the Most refused to go with the option Croatia is growing. And I think it's open to say it and repeat it, the only reason it can be world-famous, or ideological. And that's legitimate and okay, and for me, it's been a lot of citizens who talk and comment on all of these processes backwards for a month, two, three, that, of course, it should have been done a long time ago, made up, told the O.K., we're here, made available to the Patriot coalition, and everything's fine. However, problems have arisen obviously, I suppose there have been problems in these agreements because part of the guess of the MOST representative was not quite prone to decide so it took time to, in fact, brainwash those who suspect HDZ is a better option. Why am I saying all this now? So I'm talking because it means every question that was addressed to colleagues from MOST they were key to the composition of the future government, for programmes, projects, etc., every answer was their reform. So I'm now asking in these documents that we've seen today, which are available to us, even though our teammate from MOST says that what we've got isn't the final version that I can believe is not the final version because we've seen and heard about them and debated them in public, we haven't finally got but we have some version. And in that version, we in HNS don't see any reform. But it is easy not to see any reform but to know that the government programme presented and the objectives presented by Mr. Oreshkovic require very large reforms and cuts. And in these directions that we got, it says everywhere it's going to grow. There will be an increase in investment in education, there will be an increase in investment in health and we all know very well that this first, next budget that is ahead requires a significant procedure in cutting public spending. So now I'm gonna say why I'm saying all this? I'm saying all of this because usually when a program is exposed then it's asked, we all ask what to call it maybe in one word or in one sentence. I expected this program to be called reform. However, what we have received and what we have seen can only be called a one-obsess and a farce like everything, so I have talked about the history of these post-election events, because until today, until the last day, it is actually an obsession and a farce. And the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, Mr. Oreshkovic, absolutely respecting you and your expertise and some candidates who are proposed for the future government, which we also believe that some of them are very professional and honorable people will not be able to accept either your programme or your candidates, or the proposed government. What I think should be emphasized and what I think the public should know are colleagues from MOST who are the key to the majority and are the key to choosing this kind of government had a chance and still have a chance to correct a mistake, to correct a mistake because a mistake was made in several people who are proposed here. And as future prime minister, Mr. Oreshkovic, you will still have a weight and you will have a problem with the fact that this government, because of some individuals who have been publicly manifested about some of the world's world's views, has been mentioned here just before so that I will not repeat them. You'll have a problem with that label, because both foreign media and foreign news agencies have reported that this government, unfortunately, has this one, that prostitute label. That's how foreign media carried it. Look, if it's just a question of one minister who obviously has a problem because it's already the whole public getting up about it, then I think the least you can do as the prime minister of this government is that you're looking for time to consult, that this proposal of some of those people, especially those most talked about, to pull that person out of the government and suggest someone else. It is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is also in your interest. So I guess I'll get to the bottom of it. HNS won't be able to accept a proposal like this. So this kind of delusion directed by MOST colleagues along with you at HDZ, this farce where you still don't know who the screenwriter was, who was the director, who was the producer, which is perhaps the most important because it has money. Unfortunately, you, Mr. Oreshkovic, will be the head of the requisitors in this play and we fear that such a government with these additional weights, means in terms of the worldview, in terms of some of the common human values that the Republic of Croatia has committed to, our constitutional values I think we will have a problem and therefore the Croatian People's Party will not support either the programme or a proposal for ministers in the future Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u517	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to those who have asked for a replica, since I have the impression that we are moving again in one direction that I think is not good, I am only asking those who will replicate and my colleague Turin Đurić to take care of the dignity and the words that are used. The first reported to the replica, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u518	I thank you, Mr. President, and I hope you didn't think about me in this brief presentation, because today I was talking about defenses, pensions and the content of the presentation, and now I'm going to talk about maritimeity. And why am I going to talk about marines? As a result of the content of the debate, the distinguished colleague Turina Đuric, and the fact that she was at the previous meeting of this Assembly, led by a committee that cared about this important matter as well as the fact that she was coming from the Queen, another city at sea, which, unlike Pula, no longer had a shipyard for the reason that she had not cared about it for 20 years when she needed to. And I'm giving you my question, because I'm going to repeat my mandate one more time, and then I have to ask my distinguished colleagues for help. I'm going to ask you what you found in this program about seafaring? I have carefully read this programme and in the maritime section I have seen the issue of declaration exclusively of the economic belt. We all know what's left of the exclusive economic field to declare, which is the construction of artificial islands, so I believe colleagues are preparing to build an artificial island on the Adriatic, so I ask them to explain it to us. However, they did not say a single word, for example, about the marine good. As you and I know in the jurisdiction of maritime, transport and infrastructure, it is also a matter of maritime goods, one of the largest resources in the Republic of Croatia, which lies in an extremely large problem primarily because of property and legal relations. So now that I'm already in this program, and God can't find a word of that in the presentation, please help me as the former chairman of this committee and guide me to where I should look for this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u519	Here will be a response from distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u520	Yeah, you're right, you're a colleague of the coat of arms. So, in terms of maritime well-being, there are several indents. Here's a smile candidate for the minister who's my neighbor. I'm glad to hear it, one ally stands there and says, "It's going to be invested in port infrastructure locally and regionally." In this, HDZ was very good in some periods and such a large amount of money was spent. Well, since mainly in the towns and municipalities of the coast and the island towns and municipalities, the most worked in HDZ municipalities in those previous mandates, so that the bottom line in which it says will be invested would now be very nice for Mr. Butkovic if you were chosen not to be in the HDZ municipality alone, to invest in port infrastructure. That's the part that cheered me up a little bit I have to admit though it's just a detail and the question is whether there's going to be money for that investment. But well, about that then when we see the budget. Yes, what is the key thing to bring and which we have failed in the past term but is neither the HDZ in its previous mandate, which is the new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. This bill is in the procedure, i.e. it was brought to the end of the procedure and should have been on the agenda but the Assembly was disbanded. It was intended to be brought into office. I hope it will be one of the priorities of all maritime priorities. Here I'd say you can make some promise to make it this year. I think it's something we need to deal with urgently to get the investments to places where we've been expecting them for many years in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u521	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Damir Romec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u522	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister. So, fellow Turin I will refer to your debate because at one point you said that, in fact, your more findings, how do you feel that everything was actually done in a hurry and that you estimate that it was about 10 to 12 days, hours? Team up. [[Turina-Đurić: Hours.]] I think your finding is guilty and it's been a lot less time because I actually personally come from the real economic sector even from the higher education sector and I know what it means to make a power point presentation. So the power point presentation is mostly done when you want to avoid really writing a program because one image and one graph is much simpler than writing a 10-page. But let me refer to your debate by quoting the key guidelines of the reform government on the page. 12 I was stabbed with something in my eye for a simple reason because it's about the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and says a key guideline is to protect teachers from violence of students, parents, to fight academic corruption, especially with regard to the plagiarization of scientific and scientific staff, etc. And then you have a situation that one candidate for minister has practically plagiarized his resume. In particular, Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic where he was unable to remove the footnote that was the résumé of Mislava Gableica. And as such material was delivered to representatives of the Croatian Parliament. So, I repeat, and this is one proof that some things have been operationally done overnight, this is the same proof that it has tried to do some things very quickly and I appeal to you as prime minister and future prime minister to really take care of what you deliver to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament It's the same. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u523	No, you're out of time. Here will be answered by a distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u524	Just for a little while. So I hope the reference isn't copying.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u525	No, you're out of time. You will be answered by a distinguished representative of Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u526	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, when it comes to ministers, it's all weird, so I said it seemed to me like everything in the good part of the farce, let it be public. So both government and ministers are politics. We've been talking about reforms ever since the election ended, and we keep talking about the profession. And all of you sitting here are waists, I absolutely don't doubt it. However, the problem is with your responsibility, i.e. with the responsibility of individual ministers. Not all of them are chosen in this way and there are those who have so-called. political legitimacy if nothing because they belong to certain parties and have certain functions in those parties and act in certain responsibilities. However, there are a whole series of people here who are excellent experts but who will now be only employees of Mr. Oreshkovic. And Mr. Oreshkovic is an employee of Mr. Petrov and Mr. Karamark. So, you're all on the market. Today it is, tomorrow you are not, except for some who have their original legitimacy because people who act in certain functions in political parties. How good is that? We'll see about that very soon. The fact that someone is a doctor of science, with all due respect to it, who has not been involved in writing the program at all, because I am almost certain, and we will have the opportunity to hear and see it, has not written at all what it will take to do. Now I wonder what they will do when you too, Mr. Oreshkovic, have not told us what they will do or what they will do in these guidelines. I think it's a pretty big mess that's coming to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u527	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Igor Fazekas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u528	Mr. President, Your Honor, future ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all very much. So I wanted to replicate to the lady that for me it's a little strange that you all are today imputing that the problem is that our mandate and individual candidates for ministers are coming from the real sector. I think it is extremely commendable, after all, I am convinced that there are an extremely high number of people in Croatia who perform extremely high functions in Croatian companies or companies that work in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and who work for much more income and material income than Croatian ministers do. What kind of message is this to these people or what kind of message is tomorrow to people who can help Croatia, and I am convinced that the time has come for us all to get our heads together and to help the country of Croatia. When we talk about legitimacy as far as I know in Croatia, ministers are not elected in direct elections by name and last name, you all know who is chosen by direct choice and the ministers must therefore choose among the best among us or the best and those who are willing to take responsibility and who will definitely be able to help the Republic. As far as the program is concerned, you all respect that in the program or that in this power point presentation not all segments are presented, not everything has been done. I would like to see who can today in twenty minutes all the things that have been bothering us all these 25 years put on a power point presentation and present to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Let the government with the prime minister show what it can do, and I am convinced that with this government, we will have much better results than we had with this government, which, thank God, has gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u529	Thank you. The distinguished representative Turina-Djuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u530	Look, the fact is that it doesn't have to be ruled out, it can, of course, be a very professional man with political legitimacy, absolutely not exclusive. But what I wanted to point out, so we're dealing with politics here, we're specifically not just dealing with environmental protection, not just building, not just schooling, we're dealing with politics. So the ministers are people who should be from some political cancer, attitude, ideas, parties of anything have any idea how they're going to run some sort of resort and the profession should do it. So some of the best ministers in Western European countries even finance, which are even considered to be a narrow area where they could be top professions were lawyers. People who are being referred to today as the best finance ministers. Why? These are, so ministers are people who have to have an idea first of all, have goals, have vision and know-how, know-how with the profession and the administration they have and people who are staff let's say in the ministries that have to implement it. I think it's there, so the thesis has been replaced, that it's a practice that isn't, absolutely not a practice in Western democracies. We'll see how the whole story ends. I'm afraid that at this point it all seems rather chaotic, that either the ministers themselves or at least most of them don't know exactly what they're supposed to do, whether they're going to be working on someone else's guidance or doing what they want to do, since I'm sure most of them here today didn't participate in making these key guidelines that we got on the table today. Well, probably some nice chance he'll show us, and the first chance will probably be the RH budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u531	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u532	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's my colleague, I'm sorry what is more important in her presentation to the MOST where she'd like to see us in what way she'd want to see us, although it's much more important for us at the Most that they signed all the reforms and that she'll support the reforms. It is not important to worry too much about whether reforms will be carried out, mainly in the economic portfolio that we know where they were brought and at which level. In particular, the companies that fall under the economy will certainly no longer be incarcerated, certainly not, there will be competitions and there will be no party syncurs. They will be professional and capable people, not teaching MOST independent lists that first appeared in the elections and who know local problems, and surely a man like Paninic will know what problems are at local level, and this time at the state level and he knows the system as well. I repeat, you'd be much happier to stick to a strategy, be it a mistake or criticism is all welcome. And not those who managed the system, the judiciary, the economy, that they are here today criticising MOST and holding lessons in which direction they should go. We will go towards reforms and hope from the heart that you will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u533	Thank you. The distinguished representative Turina-Djuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u534	I mean buddy, I don't know your last name, don't be mad because you're new, I mean I'm sorry but in these papers that we got maybe, I don't know I seem to be in one place there's a word in your presentation where the reform is mentioned. But there's really nothing. It's easy that there's no such thing as a word. These words, not to us as politicians, are probably enough for most people in Croatia. That reform, I think it's bad for everyone. And that's not there, it's basically not in those documents that we got. About these lovemakings, sinecures, etc. You'll just see if they'll be there or not because you have to make a deal with your coalition partner, and then you'll see if they'll be or won't be. And I have never advocated the political entanglement of incompetent political personnel but professional and capable of being able to take responsibility and do the job fairly. So, I mean running at all costs and from that because it's also part of the responsibility at the end. Large state-owned companies are the government's responsibility, they're the government's policy. Therefore, if we have professionals, at the same time people who know and have a political goal and know what needs to be done, why should the Priors exclude them from party people as professional people who can lead large systems as well. I think it was the same one of the big mistakes you made at the MOST that you and Priors started with such a story and that's why you have today in the debates of all these remarks that not only come from me but from other colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u535	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u536	Your Honor. With all due respect, I have to say this to my HNS colleague, he's kind of right, if he's right, I wouldn't be surprised to see it coming in the world media that this is pro-government, government, ministers or I don't know how else. When the young forces of this society rose back in '91. In the creation of the Croatian state, while some were storming the dam and defending their country towards the east, others were chasing west, into Strasbourg, and I don't know where, to some other destinations. And I'd also like to say let's not be surprised, in addition to all these incurrings and those outsiders who have welcomed us against the new governments, demonstrations and against new ministers, it'll probably have an echo because I guess nowhere in the world does this sort of thing happen to those sitting inside to organize outside events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u537	Thank you. Please, Mrs Turina Đuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u538	And you know how, everyone gets caught, or everyone where it's itchy, picks up the line so you do, and I've heard your discussions before, so I know exactly what direction your idea, idea political attitude is going in. But I must remind you that I assume you're a member of the HDZ? It is. Okay. So I'll warn you that the founder and founder of HDZ, Dr. Franjo Tudjman was an active antifascist. Active. When messages came in time to rename some markets of Marshal Tito, that should move his monuments, etc., I remember it very well, for so many years I have a memory, he was also against it. He also had full respect for Joseph Broz Tito and for all the antifascism fluids and that is something he did not allow to touch. The second is the same truth, he tried something that we still failed to create a situation of general reconciliation and consensus on all historical issues regarding our Croatian history. Unfortunately, we haven't gotten to that yet. Why, perhaps we should all think for ourselves, especially those who spread hate messages, which spread messages that are not within the framework of the civilization standards that we have achieved and that our environment has reached in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u539	Thank you very much. Now you will be replicated by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u540	counterparts Turina-Đuric, you have warned Prime Minister Oreskovic that foreign media are already widely reporting that his future government is at risk of being declared pro-USTA. And you have earned a warning from the President of the Parliament, a warning that, as a elected representative in the Croatian Parliament, watch what you say because things can go wrong. I agree with the President of the Parliament. Things have already gone wrong. Not because you are speaking in the House, but because of the names that Oresh's prime minister proposes. But these are not just colleagues Turina-Đurić foreign media, Croatian news society intends to inform the International Federation of Journalists, the Media Department, security and co-operation organisations in Europe and the Media Organisation of Southeast Europe. If you continue the mandate of Oreskovic with this proposal, you will have problems in the world with these organizations. Cultural, I warn you well-intentioned, I don't care whether you continue or not, I don't care, but these are journalists for now. The cultural workers haven't called yet, the cultural workers haven't called in yet that you're here for your so-called The professional government, for the Minister of Culture, you propose a man whom no one has ever seen at any theatre performance, at any opera, at any ballet, at any movie premiere, at any opening of the exhibition, at any book. So much for your expertise and your proposal. That's what I'm telling you who I am at all the premieres.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u541	First I'm asking you to calm down, that's one thing. Secondly, I'll tell you one more time, obviously you got it wrong for the first time because you know it very well, I didn't warn anyone. I haven't told anyone a warning. We therefore hold what it is and will respond to your replica, distinguished representative Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u542	Thank you, Mr. President. I would ask since you asked Mr. President why he warned me, I'm also not so sure that I said something even offensive and let alone something more difficult than that. But I'd like to ask Mr. President in response to your replica whether he should look back at something else in his remarks, which is that there are already three hours of Mr. Culture Minister's candidate not in the assembly. Have there been any changes? I appreciate that the gentleman may be carrying out some needs, but I think presenting the government is something that should make the candidate sit here and possibly go for 10 minutes to stretch his legs. I appreciate that, but he's been gone for three hours. I think you should have noticed that, Mr. President. And the thing about candidacy and who's supposed to be, or what to do at all, showing up to be a candidate for something, so you say no one's ever seen him at a theater show. Well, it was probably suggested by those who regularly went to Bleiburg, not theater shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u543	My colleagues Turina Đuric, you know very well that according to the Rules of Procedure, he is not polluting with the president, so do not violate the Rules of Procedure knowingly. You know that very well. And I would now ask you to replicate your presentation, distinguished representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u544	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mrs Turina Đuric, the HNS won't determine ministers because you lost the election. That's the first thing. The second thing, if something is written by foreign media, they also wrote about lex Perkovic in time when you, the ruling majority here, were protecting those associated with the suicides. And then you didn't care about the antifascism so-called because you must have put it under anti-fascism, and it wasn't anti-fascism, it was a communist crime. So, please, if you are judging, and today you have shown an incredible pride, and pride is a great sin. To judge others, and not to see your own sins is very bad, and you have done it today. And you chose one target, one man, I would ask you in your replica to tell me what you really resent. Which is his statement that can qualify him as Prostava minister. Please, colleague Stazic has accused a man of the basis of some false portal, a website that does not exist and whose owner has announced a lawsuit against you and I can't wait for you to finally answer in court for your lies. And now you're also completely unargumentedly attacking a man and accusing him of failing her. Please specifically tell all these colleagues and colleagues, which is Mr Hasanbegovic's statement, for which he would be treated in the way you do. It's not right for a man, the whole left-wing public you're talking about, the general public. It's not the general public. You saw the general public when there was a referendum on "In the Name of the Family" when you were also stingy, unargumentedly accusing all those who were at the time for being a minority, so it turned out to be 66%. So, give a little bit of being parliamentary, understand this is a democracy in which there is both left and right, in which there is even radically left and radically right and all this is Croatia. And people have the right to their opinions and people have chosen them to be in government or not to be in government. They told you they didn't want you in the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u545	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Turina-Djuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u546	Comrade Jandrokovic, we also know each other from last term. I can hardly outdo you in pride and insolence. And about that, I didn't even mention the gentleman's name, but I saw the video, so look at the "Open" video for yourself. Look! What, what's bothering me? He thus directly stated that what is in the plantations, what is written in the Croatian Constitution for him, something that has flossule. How else do I think what? And at the same time, at the same time, I think Mr. Deputy or how the chairman of the Bleiburg Association Supervisory Board... That's right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So anyone who dares to relativize both anti-fascism and the Homeland War is someone who I don't think falls into the ranks of the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I don't have as much further to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u547	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Tepeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u548	Well, here I would like to replicate this part of the di co-worker, the esteemed colleague Turina, appeal to be replaced by the culture minister. She may have thought that the minister, pardoning the future prime minister, proposed to the mandate someone from the HNS because they proved to be culture ministers ironing the ministry's official cards. So, if that's what you're thinking, here's Mr. Oreshkovic. It's an example of how the HNS works and how they perceive the Ministry of Culture as a cow they can. That is why they are appealing, which is why they think that Mr Hasanbegovic is not responding to them, or that you should make a change because they are known for how and how the Ministry of Culture is used. And Mr Brijuni for 7 kuna is obviously afraid that the future culture minister will not allow him to fly again for 7 kunas on Brijuni, so here he is all day long hitting on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u549	Thank you very much. Mrs Turina-Djuric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u550	My dear colleague, I have no idea of proposing a culture minister in the HDZ and MOST government who has obviously already been formed there, nor was that an intensification in my debate. But today we are discussing the people who have proposed the program that was proposed. So let us have the right to say our opinion on it. And that the public is, the fact that because they're full of portals, in the end I think the first time in history has happened that we have a protest before the Parliament... Who organized it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Oh, come on, sir. I'm not so sure that you can just organize your colleagues in other places. So the first time it happened means that it is protesting in front of the Croatian Parliament because it really is here that the prime minister's candidate is not well to send such a message. A man does have a certain problem. They're going to put a label completely unnecessary on this government that we all want to succeed in those goals that you've been talking about, no matter what we're an opposition. And as an opposition, we have the right to warn, to suggest, to say what we think would be smarter and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u551	Thank you very much. We'll continue to discuss clubs. Next on behalf of the HDZ Club is distinguished representative Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u552	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the new officials in the Croatian government. In all parliaments, this is a solemn moment, some highlight of democracy because what the citizens have shown is that they want in the elections. However, political rivals oppose arguments over what they think should be done and what is proposed, and what have we witnessed all morning? We are witnessing attempts to discredit and lynch individuals without any argument. Because if you want to discredit someone, then quote him what he said. However, what is most important all day we listen to mourners why MOST left with the Patriot coalition and not with Croatia growing. And there are tears flowing slowly. And why are there no arguments here today? Because when independent financial institutions both domestic and foreign, and when the European Commission writes to you what it writes, then simply run away from the strength of the argument. Because it would be logical that the gentlemen wanted to hear from others today all the time, so when they didn't try it themselves, my mouth praise me, that they made their arguments why they think something's wrong. However, when the Institute of Public Finance writes to you, I quote: "The old government has adopted the report on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the last 272 regular session held on 14 January and on the commitments made and outstanding in President Zoran Milanovic's term," and now listen to this "despite 2259 pages, key information on the government's financial activities, its fiscal and economic consequences, the report is unfortunately not transparent and informative and cannot serve as a basis for assessing the government's work." Now you can think of why the future prime minister as, and should have used this as a background, could have made a proposal for a program. This is one grade. And finally, according to the Economic Institute, that report got a negative assessment. And the European Commission said in its Progress Report Croatia on correcting macroeconomic balances that with the policy led by this government in 2017 we are expected to grow public debt to a level of over 93% and a deficit of 4.9% of GDP. That's the facts. And when you have such facts, then run away from the arguments and apply what you apply. However, where is Croatia today? So it is evident that what this government is saying is hiding 6.7 billion kunas that are not shown. It's about 5 billion kuna in health care and a billion and 700 kuna which they themselves have recognised unpaid liabilities. And that leads us to a 91% debt level. My colleagues and colleagues, this government, regardless of public debt in 2011, has suffered all shipbuilding obligations that occurred over the past 30 years, took over the country with 61% of the public debt in GDP. He'll be over 91% today. No country in Europe has had this kind of public debt since the war here. However, what is important to say and what must be said here for Croatian citizens, so public debt has increased by 100 billion kuna despite the brutal tax burden that has been done towards Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy in the past 4 years, literally brutal. Such tax burden is not recorded by o-ho-ho. But also let us not forget one pair of tax burdens, which is the rise in energy prices by 25%, which has been taken from Croatian citizens' pockets by over 3.5 billion kuna over the past 3 years. It was like some kind of investment that HEP would make, but they didn't happen. My colleagues and colleagues on the trail of all this together, we can establish a summary, and I won't be so much more about the former government, so they've made 100 billion more public debt, they've lost about 80s and some more thousands of jobs in the past four years, and unfortunately 100 thousand young Croats have gone across the border. This may unfortunately be Croatia's biggest success in EU accession. And in order to get closer to what the prime minister has been talking about and what unfortunately the economic analysts in Croatia have avoided one area but have experienced a real catharsis in the past four years, which is how much the Croatian economy is, the owners of companies that are on the stock market and those who have not lost since the last four years because of the government's poor economic policy. So the amount is over 100 billion kuna, that's how much the stock has dropped, that's how much the company's worth has dropped. How many Croatian citizens have lost because of the dramatic fall in the real estate market? Over 80 billion kuna. Many have committed themselves and bought apartments of 2, 2200, 2300, 1800 euros per square, today these apartments are worth neither 1100 or 1200. It's a simple loss of family budget. This has simply led many people into social problems because it is very difficult to repay these loans. And then this whole expensive state of government brings us to Mr. Oreshkovic's presentation. Because it's easy to run social policy, it's easy to run a policy on the rights of these and those when you have a full register, when everyone doesn't burden you that you owe so much, that you have to be in debt so much. So what is crucial and what Mr. Oreshkovic said, and I will simply repeat it and that is primarily to slow down the growth of public debt. Don't cut it, because we can't reduce it as long as we have the deficit, so slow down its growth. Reduce the deficit of the state budget, increase employment. Because if we increase employment we will automatically solve one big neural point on the expenditure side of the budget and one major imbalance and the structural problem of the Croatian budget, and that is a huge proportion between what is collected from the pension contribution and how much should be given for pensions. The same story is with health insurance. On the other hand, we look at the level of that contribution, and then it makes us terribly uncompetitive because our labour force is expensive and that is to the extent that Mr. Prime Minister spoke about. To implement fiscal consolidation, is fiscal consolidation being carried out if you invent some kind of cash principle and show the deficit that suits you? You will see when the budget is implemented with the budget in the last four months and why someone says it is 9 billion, but I am responsible for saying the deficit of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2015 will be between 14 and 15 billion kuna. To change the structure of the expenditure side of the budget, that's exactly what Mr. Oreshkovic was talking about, which I was saying we were going to discuss here today. You structure of the expenditure side of the budget without structural reforms cannot change. You can't say, come tell me I'll do it, why? Because that every structural reform enlists hundreds of thousands and millions of our citizens. So that's something that's said in a power point presentation and by which many people talk like this is, but today it's the most extensive form of communication about presentation whether you want to present something to someone, if you want to do something. Reduce the tax burden on citizens and the economy, it can't be done like this. You can only reduce the tax burden on citizens and the economy if you have increased employment and if you have increased and economic growth, if you have more quality governance with public enterprises and in such a way, without additional tax burden, increase the income side and if you keep the expenditure side under control and it is called that you have consolidated public finances, there is a reduction in the public deficit and a reduction in the growth of this public debt. How to implement public administration reform? So, since 2009, HDZ has been trying to introduce a payment system in the public administration, and in my view it's the only way to reward those who do, to pay for work without paying for formality belonging to something. So everyone gets paid the way they are and that everyone can advance according to their bets. And that's the only way to get the public administration to be effective, to be good and to move away from politics. Putting state property into operation, which is why I mentioned that loss of value on the market because simply if that property is not placed on the market, because look at me from the sale of shares of some large companies in the Republic of Croatia practically the Zagreb Stock Exchange does not exist, there is no more significant trade, there is nothing. But if we put this property of a state that's inoperable, it's not of strategic interest to put it on the market we'll automatically revive the capital market. More efficient to manage public enterprises, nothing special, nothing smart, just leave the principles of public enterprises to people who would put them in their private company to run them, nothing else, no other principle needs. Reduce administrative barriers to investment, more efficient use of EU funds. Look, colleagues and colleagues, we've been here a lot of times, and we've been fighting over how much the EU funds are being used, and then we've put on a pile of funds that we've collected from pre-accession funds and all this together, and then you come up with the budget and then you see how much funds were planned to withdraw from the EU funds and then you see the budget being implemented and then you see that the amount is halved. And that is why Mr. Oreshkovic stressed this programme, his government's programme and the Patriot coalition and the Most. So he did not go as some talked before him that he would withdraw as much or as much, but he took it as a strong message for the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia because we simply need to be aware of how much capital there is today in Croatia that could create new jobs. Unfortunately, without foreign capital investment, without the Croatian diaspora, it is very difficult. Increase the credit rating and reduce the price of capital, so all that I've been saying for our predecessors, and for us if we show up at the beginning and then we practically spend what we're talking about, we'll definitely get to the credit rating agency to increase our credit rating. That means it's going to fall and the price of capital. Today, the risk coefficient for Croatia is between 275 and 325 points and, for example, Slovenia has 0.75. So this automatically means that Slovenian companies have a 2.5% lower interest rate at the start. And if we don't do that, if we don't make it possible for our economies first, we'll get them into trouble, but on the other hand, for all of this deficit that we have the country has to be in debt, so let's say we take a round 10 billion kuna, not 4, 4.5%, but to be in debt at 1, 1.5%, so that's 300 and another million less on the spending side. So simple mathematics, there's not much philosophy, there's just got to be a political will to do some things. Now, when one, in fact, more political options are found and shown the will, the desire and the strength to do so, then in the House they experience what they experience. One argument that something is not good that Mr. Oreshkovic suggested, is heard today, you didn't, but a million and one discredition. That's what you heard. And that's what I'm afraid you're hearing. However, all these ideological stabbings will disappear at the same time as those who constantly force Croatia to have economic growth over 3%, when Croats realize that only good governance can make a good living then they will no longer be able to serve us these ideological flossules. Because if the late Francis Tudjman was like this in the '90s, we'd never have a Croatian state. That is why colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club will support Mr Oreskovic and his team in the heart. We will help in every possible and impossible way to achieve what he has set up. And now the other thing, one professional misunderstanding methodological misunderstanding is that slide where Mr. Oreshkovic showed the ministries and then you have those three things down there. There Mr. Oreshkovic showed you the short and medium- and long-term measures that ministers will have to make through which they will control how they work. However, those who have never done anything in their life simply cannot understand it and you cannot implement the program without such measures. Therefore, as already streams of tears are running after colleagues from the Most, however, they have opted for those with whom they can implement reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u553	Thank you very much. We have more candidates for replicas. The first is the honourable representative Damir Krsticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u554	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to say that I am honored and privileged to be elected representative of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to say the absolute support of Prime Minister Oreshkovic, all candidates and candidates for ministers, as well as the presentation of his colleague Suker. We've heard our prime minister's program, we all know the program together is one thing, implementing the program, and that's already a hard story. Because I want to invite all of us here and the MPs and the representatives to the community. We need community as well as the '90s, but thank God today 2016 for a better standard of our people. Because we all owe Croatia better together, and we owe it to our friends who died. I also want to say that we need to use all the potentials, the potentials that Croatia has, let's free them. What I'm trying to say is that there is enormous potential in young people. But I want to say once again that there is enormous potential in Croatian defenders. They can be the new driving force of Croatian society, they can help us, we include them in all social processes, we allow them to work in these reforms, we put them in ministries, in administrations, in supervisory committees, but according to our abilities, because we need everyone for better Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u555	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u556	Thank you very much. My colleague Krstičević, I also said in my address on behalf of the club that Mr. Oreshkovic's presentation had just gone in this direction to stop, so to speak of these ideological discussions, however, you saw where it went from those who simply do not want to admit that someone could do something. However, I'm glad you mentioned the Croatian defenders. Croatian defenders are often used in this assembly as a means of professionalising with the story have such privileges, have such privileges, anyway. They don't have any privileges, they have the rights that gave them this High House by voting certain laws. And if someone doesn't like it, it's known how the law is passed, that's how the law can change. However, all those who often use the opportunity to attack Croatian defenders, to call them one way or another, did not have the political courage to propose an amendment to that law. And the logical thing is to make life easier for Croatian defenders and all other populations. Let's not forget about disabled people because when you look at just how many people with Down syndrome are employed, how many percent are there, I think it's just... So if that's how we behave, and that's how we'll be able to behave if we get to these macroeconomic indicators that are planned and projected by Mr. Oreshkov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u557	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u558	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've spent my working life in the real sector for a long time, and I'm not even an unemployed woman, and I'm not going to cry here. But I'm going to look back at three of the findings that you've made here. First you say the government report has received a negative or very poor opinion from an economic institute. He's not the one who's going to evaluate the government. The government was evaluated by her voters who gave her as many mandates as they did to your coalition. You say it was a bad economic policy. We have a bad economic policy after many years, after a crisis that deepened when others came out of the crisis we had economic growth, export growth in two-digit amounts, we had GDP growth. You say a huge drop in real estate prices. So you know who's been going into real estate jobs there since 2005, sixth, seventh, eighth years and what way and at what prices they've been overrated, where people have been in debt buying apartments that they can't pay off and out of today. So be objective. I know you have to defend what's written here at this point, and everything you've said about the government's report on departure can be applied to the program that we've been presented here. The program is missing because we don't know what it's going to look like. Only the wishes and goals that we do not know are listed. I don't object to the mandate because he wasn't at all in a position to decide, nor can he give the elaborate program, and it seems to me that neither your coalition Domoljubni plus MOST has agreed to the government's programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u559	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u560	Comrade Zgrebec, I didn't tell anyone that he was unemployed and God forbid he told any of his colleagues. So in that context, I wouldn't want to talk. So here I was quoting the opinion of the Institute of Public Finance that had seen the government's full report and found a million things that just couldn't be compared. From the same ministry, photocopyed material, and when you look at it, I looked at the government's report. You just can't compare some things. However, when you talk about the success or failure of a government, if you look at all the reports it comes down to three macro-economic indicators. One is the level of public debt, the other is the deficit and the third is the growth of gross domestic product. And as a fourth, you can put unemployment. All three, four indicators for this government are devastating. Here's the latest unemployment indicator in Croatia at this time is 17.0%. So these are facts and this is the European Commission's assessment of not me, not any of these colleagues who support the ruling majority. That is the opinion of the European Commission. Real estate. I was talking about how much the value of Croatian citizens' property fell, so they own real estate. I wasn't talking about real estate business, but to all people who have invested or inherited from their parents how much they lost, which is, for that amount, the potential of the Republic of Croatia is lower. Because you can't tell them yet if you take the 6 billion from the second pillar of retirement you took from them, then we see what kind of situation we've put Croatian citizens in. And finally, let's get one thing straight. Never in this Chamber can nor has the government's implementation and implementation programme been proposed, but simply a programme, and all implementations, etc. you will have the opportunity to see through the proposed budget and through other legal acts that will arrive in the Croatian Parliament in the coming months.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u561	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u562	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, so you're an experienced player, each of your performances is convincing with a lot of data that seems to be the real data that is credible so it's always a pleasure to talk to you and replicate to you because some of those figures and you yourself know they're not accurate, but they sound good. It's certainly 3 times 100 that keeps repeating, about 100,000 emigrating, about 100 billion debt, and about 100,000 shut down jobs. It's just not true, but I'm not going to elaborate any further now, because I don't have time. What I want to tell you. We here today as an opposition to me have been very correct. Our goal is to help the prime minister to show him what are the traps in his work that will needlessly distract him from what is essential, which is to ensure economic growth, jobs and higher wages. That was our first goal. Secondly, we wanted to point out some of the problems he presented to us. The presentation's great, it's a frame, but we still don't see the picture. We'll see the picture you say well when we get the budget, so we can estimate from the budget what's been done. But let's say this reform package as it's called is full of flaws. And right through our discussions, we're trying to draw attention to what's wrong. Here you are, sport. So the word sport in this program is only mentioned in the name of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and nowhere else. So I urge you to bring a strategy of sport along with the minister and ensure better development of sport. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, I will ask Mrs Juretic for no mention of the young. So you have the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, but not a single line about young people. And here today we are trying to constructively point out to the prime minister in the future and help not to base the deadlines he brings to the debate and in the parliament in the future we can continue to be a constructive opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u563	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed counsel of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u564	My colleague Jovanovic, if you had discussed it the way you said you would have discussed it then my debate would have been different. We can see that in the phonogram that it's just not like that. Three times a hundred. What is the gross domestic product of the Republic of Croatia? Over 320 billion. Take 31% of that, is that close to 100 billion? And when you add these six, seven billion hidden that you didn't show, that's it. The official information of your government at the beginning when you came to power I didn't say here that 100,000 jobs were lost, but somewhere around eighty. A million and 392 thousand employees. Today, a million 320 grand. Is that it? It is. 100 thousand young people, look at these are indicators of wherever you move, that's what everyone tells you. This tells you the official records of eviction in Germany, and that's what the Catholic mission tells you. Well, after all, you don't need to look in your street, so turn around and see how many young people are gone. Go to Slavonia and see how many young people there are. They're facts and we can't get away from them. But if those 100,000 hadn't gone out then today Croatia would have 375 thousand unemployed. Now, when you mentioned the sport you see colleague Jovanovic, sport yes, but not the way it was bored. Ivan Shuker becomes president of the Croatian Basketball Federation in Zagreb is held the biggest sports event and the Croatian Tourist Board says it is a event and we will finance it with 2 million kunas. Schuker becomes president of the Croatian Basketball Union and they eliminate it. Nor is my basketball team yours. If the opening of the basketball championship in Zagreb for all 4 countries where the championship was not a tourist event and promotion of Croatia I do not know what it is. If you mean in such a way to mention sports thank you nicely or what it says whether officials can or can't be at the head of sports companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u565	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u566	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Schuker, I like to listen to you as well as my colleague Jovanovic, and I think that in the financial part of it I would like to thank you first and foremost for thinking that we have been successful and that we have also taken care of the rights as you say these and those, minorities of national, sexual, women, etc. But you were talking about the content of the debate. I will no longer discuss nor the principles nor the world's horizons, but I would like to tell you the following. We are facing a situation in which Croatia is first in its history. Here's Mr. Prime Minister talking about us being a young democracy, growing up. Today's debate is also the situation in which we find ourselves is full of precedent. But the precedent is certainly this document that we have in front of us, these 21 pages of tips fellows. I wish I could discuss the hints in the depths. Here's what counterpart Jovanovic said sports is only mentioned on behalf of the ministry. I'll distract you here, let's say the resort that I'm following, which is education. What I am interested in, and what is not mentioned in a word or mentioned mainly in a negative context in these quotations is why the process of curricular reform is interrupted, who will implement and how to audit and why the revision of the curricular reform, where the Croatian qualification framework is in the system of connecting the economy and the academy, or education that I absolutely welcome. But I would like to know what concrete plans these are, which are deadlines for both the revision and the Croatian qualification framework. I'd like to know what's in equating degrees of university and professional studies which I can't read here either. I'd like to know about the chamber system, his entrance to education, which I can't read from here. I would also like to know what about the financing of science and the role of the Croatian Foundation for Science in the general framework of financing and improving science and linking it with the economy. This is what my colleague Schuker can't read in this document and I can't discuss it very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u567	Here, thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u568	You see, colleague Hajdukovic, it's good that democracy is the same as our Rules of Procedure that allows us this kind of thing. So you deny what the Institute of Public Finance wrote. And this whole thing you were saying wasn't in the program four years ago that was your government. Because that's what I'm telling you implementing measures. You'll see most of it in the budget. However, you will also see in the implementation of the budget what you have not done in the last three months, and you have had to do as far as education is concerned and as far as the purchase of equipment and investment and everything else is concerned. You'll see it all. And that's why colleagues from the Institute of Public Finance, they have nothing to do with HDZ, wrote: "A report without a passing grade except that it is a legal obligation to produce such a significant document is necessary and desirable. However, the analysis of the form and content of the report cannot give a passing assessment. Extensive parts of the report of certain state bodies disperse focus and make it impossible for the government to assess during the term of office. The report had to be made clear the results of the implementation of the Government Programme and the implementation of the reform on the side of the revenue.". That's what it says here. And the only document for economic governance, above all, the most important leverage for economic policy-making, social policy-making and everything else, is the budget. The budget is the most important document. But I say you'll be surprised that in the last 3.5 months your government has not been executed, and this will have to be done in the next period, especially as far as education is concerned. So that's why we're talking about a 9.5 billion deficit. And then somewhere in this report, it's secretly said there's an unrepresented billion and 700. Health care, I think that you and I, you can't say it in public right now, but in a month's time, you'll be as happy as all the MPs in this House would finally get a clear picture of how much the Croatian health care owes right now, in the medium and long term, and that we finally know that this system costs us as much and that we all sit together and bring together a new Health Insurance Act in the Republic. As long as it's not there, we'll never get to a good law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u569	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u570	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Shuker, I fully agree with you that the act of voting the new government's mandate should be a solemn act, that it should be more constructive, shorter however you wish. I fully agree with you and that we should end the stories about the coalitions as it progressed, which flowed. It is over, it is evident that the government will be assembled today or tomorrow as the debate takes place. However, what you of the Patriot coalition and the MOST today staged with the presentation of this government is beginning to slowly resemble everything on the farce. For one simple reason, you are now 15.32 hours from the morning we speak out of opposition and ask questions that we do not get answers to. All our questions are being rejected about this government, we're not getting a single answer anywhere. The term of office held a 15-minute presentation this morning, said at the end of the presentation that it would be a transparent government, open government and that it would be completely transparent in everything. After that, he sat down and did not answer any of the fifteen replicas, although according to the Rules of Procedure he had the opportunity to rise up and answer all our questions at any moment, not once did he do something like that. We talk to ourselves here all the time. And then you get up and you resent it. If you want, what else do you want to get out of Parliament and do it yourself in five minutes? We are chosen here by the citizens and we are obliged to ask questions that interest us and the gods are interested in our citizens. If we make a deal and you finally give us the answers to those questions, then all of this together will take a little bit longer. And I'll also tell you this today are easy questions, believe me. When you finally take responsibility and start running this country, there will be difficult questions. If you're not able to answer these questions today, I wonder what's gonna happen in a month, what are you talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u571	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u572	As a young colleague, I would first recommend you to read the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and then you will see that you as a representative can, in fact, only ask the members of the Government on the current morning, only then. The second institute is a replica. Replica is not a question. Through the replica, you're paralyzing whether or not you're with a colleague of your own, whether or not you're with the legislator. To tell you the truth, 99% of your replicas are not polymizing with what Mr. Oreshkovic was saying. And if you don't want to paralyze him where you know you're inferior, because the man has proven himself professionally. You're inferior here, you don't want to paralyze with him about what he was saying, and he was talking about the burning problems of the Republic of Croatia. You want to pollemize with him in the field where you can say it anyway. You've been hitting on ideological topics all along, and it's not, and remember, and read the Rules of Procedure and you'll see, the replica is polymizing with certain attitudes. And so on our Rules of Procedure. And when it comes to the first actual morning, then you will ask the prime minister and the ministers, and if you do not get an answer, you can request a written reply that will also be available within 30 days. Therefore, be assured that you will not have any outstanding questions left. However, if you take a closer look at the discussion of the HDZ Club and my colleagues, I think that three or four HDZ deputies were discussing when Mr Milanovic put one on the table, and the other one was talking there, and there were talk of big state speeches where these state-owned speeches took us to see it today, so you will see that there was nothing like what you're saying, but there was talk about what was written in those 62 pages that Mr Milanovic suggested as a programme. And that's the difference between our relationship to this high house and yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u573	Thank you very much. Now the word has a distinguished representative, Willibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u574	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I was listening to the presentation of Parliament's representative, a colleague of Ivan Shuker's. And as I listened to him, I remembered all those long years when he was a minister, since 2003, when he was placed in that place by his fellow dignitary Ivo Sanader until about 2010, when he was replaced by counterpart Dalic. All those long months and those long years, I followed this tall home, followed the debates, and watched Mr. Shucker owe us more and more from the moon to the moon, and how he justified things like this or things like that. So, Mr. Shuker, you were part of this policy and this way of thinking that brought us here, which brought us into this social slavery, you were a member of the seven-year-olds of one of the most corrupt and corrupt governments in the history of Croatia. And if you ask why young people leave, they leave because of you and those like you because for my generation, it means the 90th you and your government have marked our adolescence and you are for us a symbol of the destruction of Croatia. And that's why I'm worried, so I said earlier today in the media that I certainly won't support Mr. Oreshkovic's government if I'm impressed I can be restrained. But seeing as how you praise her, seeing as you praise her, I wonder why I should trust you? Of course I wouldn't, therefore this government will have my support and the support of hundreds of thousands of voters who have cast a vote on my list won't have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u575	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u576	Look, colleague Sincic, if I were to use your rhetoric, it wouldn't be nice to hear it in this House. You didn't read the papers at all first. We should know that before the economic crisis, the Republic of Croatia had a deficit of 0.8. That in 2005 for the first time in history, the public debt of the Republic of Croatia was reduced. And the other thing, Mr. Sincic, when you like to be smart so much, but don't do anything to tell anyone what means you'll pay the difference of 17 billion to pay the Croatian pensioners? And the government budget deficit is 15 billion. Where are you going to pay for it? Because we have as many pensioners as we have. You should look at who's spending the money. But like you say, it's the easiest way to attack, accuse without arguments, and that's the easiest way to talk. But I never in my life, here are colleagues with me who were while I was in government, and in the Parliament I never said a word to anyone without arguments. But I'm saying if you talk like this, it's not worthy of this home. However, you attack without arguments that is your style, please, but when you look at what the government has done in office while I was Minister of Finance and not counting in 2009 when the whole world has won the economic crisis, then you will see. I'm telling you, in 2008, as finance minister, I got the World Bank Award... that's been talked about so much here. And, of course, it doesn't mean anything to you that this award is presented on Wall Street because you're a great financial expert and you can teach everyone a lesson.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u577	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representatives of Karoline Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u578	Thank you, Mr. President. So one of the main three main objectives listed in the presentation we heard this morning is socially responsible and productive society. And in your presentation on behalf of the club, you said how I quote it is easy to run social policy and it's easy to run a policy of the rights of these and those when you have a full bag, I mean did you say or say a full register, right? Thank you for reminding us that HDZ ran social policy. He therefore led the social policy of buying social peace, bribing his voters and bribing voters. It is very well known, therefore, and it is obviously an announcement of what you will do with a full bag or full cash register. Something left you, however, by Zoran Milanovic and his government, so you didn't exactly come to an empty register. What we already know and what is now announced by some future candidates for some new ministries in the Government of Mr. Oreshkovic because, as it is known, this composition will not, or this division of ministries will not be in the future as it is today, announced some ministry of demographic reconstruction, immigration and family. So the gentleman who is a candidate, one of the candidates for minister of the ministry, Mr Ilcic, has already announced that, as your HDZ president said, so Mr Karamarko will stimulate with 1000 euros the birth of Croats, as far as I understand. I would also call it irresponsible, pre-election, of course, floscules, irresponsible social policy and social policy, which cannot be called socially responsible and productive, but rather what HDZ did in previous years, which is that the state budget was used as an ATM.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u579	The honourable representative will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u580	If it were true what you're saying, colleagues Leakovic, then there'd be dozens of laws on these benches for the past four years that you've abolished the rights that HDZ allegedly gave someone beyond the criteria. You haven't abolished any laws. Then if you say we did it, then you did it just like we did. So don't accuse us if you're doing the same thing. Because if we had given someone something the way you say, if you had passed the law if we had abolished it, then you would be right. So you're wrong. The European Commission's report tells you, not that the Government of Zoran Milanovic leaves us full of cash, but leaves us a leak and there is nothing. And if you don't take what it is, then it's gonna be about paying off what you're talking about. So tell me what law you've changed and reduced some of the rights that HDZ has given to some kind of political purchase. And how much was your political purchase before the election we'll see about when a review of the givings that have been increased in the last four months that have been presented here in this House. We'll see about that. It's a classic political purchase. Just what you're telling me right now I can tell you don't be angry with the mocking owls. So what you've been doing for the past four months. And what I said is ask everyone who runs the finances, and in the end it's at home, so when you have a good budget, when you have macroeconomic stability, then you can really combine what kind of policy you're going to run, and that's why I mentioned the richest European countries that are proud of their social policy, but not because they're so socially sensitive, but because they simply have a chance. So I was talking in that context. And look at the phonogram, and you'll see that that's exactly what it says, not in the context that someone doesn't throw themselves away, but I repeat it, and I'll repeat it 150 times. Not a single law that HDZ passed that gave someone some right that you say you wanted to buy votes you didn't lift, you reduced that right. So, unfortunately, you did, if you say it was the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u581	The next replica is that of distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u582	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, if other circumstances were then entirely your remark would be in place, that would be one solemn goal of presenting the government, the principle of dealing with what we have previously met. But we don't know the prime minister, he doesn't know us, we don't know each other. But that's not a big problem, that's a minor problem. I believe Mr. Shuker, you and I can bet, can the prime minister without paper identify every single person for whom the resistor is in charge and what his name is. I don't think so. And that's the problem. Furthermore, when you talk about a credit rating and you believe it will increase. I believe above all, and we want to believe that on the basis of what has been left for you, the Croatian citizen will continue with this style and that the citizens will live better. To find programs to resuscitate citizens and not to resuscitate banks, it's our joint task, and I want to believe it. That's our common goal, and that's where you'll have the support. I wouldn't trust these famous agencies where the world has already risen and many powerful countries, one America against those agencies that evaluate credit ratings either by the whole, or by the state, and where the question is whether they are independent appraisers or unscrupulous blackmailers. After all, it's better than me you know, before it goes bankrupt, two or three days before Goldman Sachs, Goldmans Brothers, Merrill Lynch's agency gave them the highest rating possible. And they call us trash. After all, what kind of institutions are these, and with what right any country is the last and let alone one proud Croatia puts in the trash. No state is garbage, but many of those agencies that have become to us like some golden calf are garbage.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u583	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u584	My colleague Antičević is sure that after this performance, Mr. Oreshkovic will be able to identify you. However, what I said in my debate and what Mr. Oreshkovic presented here, he proposed a way and model to identify the work of his team. I think it's far more important than whether someone's gonna smile at them in one way or another. And you've all forgotten one by one, one of the most important slides, and that's slide control, or if you want a sports dictionary, there's no colleagues... So-called Passing time for individual projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I am pleased that my colleague Oreshkovic will thus identify his associates. And as for credit rating agencies, colleague Anticevic, if anyone in this House was talking about them, I was talking about them. And I told you well at the beginning of your term, don't use the term to keep us credit ratings. Because if someone has told us for years that we have a low credit rating because we are in the negotiations phase, entering the EU, uncertainty etc. Well, brother, we've finished our negotiations, we've entered that EU. Now give me that credit rating, cut me the interest you've been charging me for years. No, the gentlemen have begun to bring us down even more. Why am I talking about these credit rating agencies? Well, because unfortunately we, that ratings they write to us, we pay all citizens and the economy and the state, and so to get them to change their minds, we have to give them numbers that will simply open their eyes and say that they can't do what they're doing to us anymore. But I remember, sometimes as Minister of Finance, an insane idea came to me given these rating agencies that Croatia could make its rating agency. And then an interesting group broke me up like that ten days in the paper that no one ever thought to start it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u585	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to a national minority club. Time will be shared by distinguished representatives of Juhas and Radin. First, my colleague Juhas. Here you go. No, no, no. [[I've reported in neatly, Mr. President. But never mind, let's go.]] We can't do that. No one answered. I'm sorry, but here's none of the three of us registered. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u586	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Future Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Let me, in a few words, express the opinion of the National Minority Club and my opinion. The National Minority Club is pleased to see the government under the leadership of Mr Tihomir Oreshkovic formed after long-term exhaust negotiations. We hope that the government will function successfully as a team despite our occasions as an unusual way of selecting individual ministers. We wish that the formed Government promotes the culture of ethnic and political tolerance, condemning hate speech and consistently implementing the rule of law and the rights of national minorities guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, constitutional laws on the rights of national minorities, other signed international and interstate agreements, agreements, conventions concerning minority rights. We are pleased with the fact that the government's basic orientation will focus on reforms and I think it has been enough time to look at and analyse all the necessary actions to carry out the long-awaited necessary reforms. The aim of the reform is to change the general state of affairs in the Republic of Croatia from economy, culture, to the quality of life of all inhabitants, and so do members of national minorities. Unfortunately, our national minority club is not aware of how the announced reforms will reflect the lives and rights of members of national minorities, despite the fact that there are almost no announced reforms that will not cover the minority issue in one way or another. The implementation of these reforms will require that we also consult, it will be necessary for us to give our opinion, and therefore I call on representatives of the government, the ministries, the prime minister or the future prime minister to try to agree on that. We do not know how the possibility of using minority languages will be affected by planned reform of local and regional self-government. We are concerned that in those areas where we are currently a majority population after the end of the day, we will say that this is what the borders, municipalities and cities say, that there we will become a minority population and that we will be threatened by a series of rights arising from the rights of use of the language and letters of the national minorities. We are not familiar with the ideas and planned solutions in the area of regional development, the area where members of national minorities live. We do not understand enough whether governments will continue to favour the country's large tenants and whether they will continue to pay 350 kuna per hectare, not the economic price, and thus further poverty the local community. It is not clear to us and we are not sure and we do not see whether the majority will continue to be supported, and the local population will work on bonuses and receive a crumb of land located in the area of these local communities. We are not sure that bureaucrats at the Ministry of Culture will continue to think that minority cultural programmes and minority culture of those who live 1,000 and more years on the premises of today's Croatia will consider something special, something that is not an integral part of Croatia's culture. I can set an example of the same thing to say, here's three men who've dealt with... In today's Republic of Croatia, two were Hungarians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then from the Ministry of Culture comes the answer when you want to publish some kind of publication that's a minority problem. Well, it's not exactly a minority problem, we didn't fall here from Mars, we've lived here a long time and we've left a lot behind. We do not know how the new ministry will refer to educational minority institutions, translation and printing of textbooks, the number of students in classes, the introduction of new programmes. We don't want what's been going on for the past 20 years. So all the governments here were able to make children from the border area go to kindergartens in Hungary, and this is what happens today that parents are taking their children to kindergartens in neighboring villages in Hungary because there is no possibility of organising minority kindergartens. How will the number of MPs be reduced, will this affect the number of national minority representatives, will the Law on Elections for Councils and Representatives of National Minorities finally be passed after 4 election cycles? What about cross-border cooperation? We have areas on the other side of the Danube River that we haven't been able to put under complete control for 20 years. And then there's all kinds of liberland showing up and I know what's wrong with you. What about infrastructure in areas where national minorities live? I looked at the government program and I didn't see any further construction of Corridor VC. There's a whole series of strangers, it's not explained to us, and we can't give our judgment. We members of national minorities will support all changes aimed at improving the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. We want to be partners with this government and actively participate in creating new solutions. The government must decide whether it accepts us as equal partners who can contribute to the implementation of all planned reforms. And I'd like to ask Mr Furi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u587	Here will continue the distinguished representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u588	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, of course, the economy is not only at this moment the most important issue in Croatia and in European society. Economic differences produce the most injustices in human rights violations. The capital remains the highest and greatest discrimination, those who produce poverty and differences between people and who have become indescribably large and painful lately. In the 21st century, no one should be so privileged and so deprived of fundamental economic rights. That is why we understand that in your presentation that I appreciate because it had much more content than words unlike other presentations that have much more words than content, you have relied on economic issues because it rightly needs to occupy the largest part of the space in the government's programme at this time. However, I should warn you that in these areas, in these areas wars and totalitarianisms have produced ethnic discrimination in the past century. The national question is basically many of the misfortunes and tragedies of these areas. National minorities are a product, by product, to say the change of borders after the wars and to them history is particularly pervasive and totalitarianisms are particularly perverse. So probably no more than national minorities at this point, and otherwise, there is no desire to get along with most in a national sense than with most in a political sense. That's why, Mr. Prime Minister, if you'd knocked or better said that you knocked on the minority door, you'd have come across an open door, you'd find that there's actually a readiness. But you didn't, at least not enough. I'm not saying because I don't see the word minority in your program, and in our opinion it should be. And the coalition that is taking over power in Croatia today, even though it has negotiated and discussed with us, has not brought these negotiations and these talks to an end. Apparently there was no time, and we understand it and we respect it, but our programs are with you friends from the Patriot coalition. And we will be happy to approach their joint study. And then, but then, there will be an assumption that we're voting for this government's trust. We believe that when we vote on the budget that we will reach an agreement and support this government completely, and all these documents are already on the table. We can access their analysis and signatures from Monday. So far you have our best and sincerest wishes to succeed because we are not only Croatian citizens but also loyal citizens of this common country. So we're ready for negotiations and talks, and that's why we only say goodbye at this point to this government or to the goodbyes and the ariveders until soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u589	Thank you very much. We've got two replicas on the show of our colleagues, Radin. She is the rightful representative of Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u590	President-in-Office, one question for Mr. Radin and some other previous speakers. I think there's this German minority in the Parliament and I'm just curious about what's going on with that German minority who was the largest minority in the former Yugoslavia, who counted about half a million people, who were totally driven out and destroyed, and they were taken away from the land the size of Luxembourg today worth $11 billion, I've never heard such a debate. I want to know what's wrong with these people and what about the German Croats who lived in Eastern Slavonia? They've been stripped of about 6,000 possessions, what about that land? Is it as unusable as that 58% of state land that is totally unusable? I think that if we were to care so much about our Croats, Germans and other minorities, they'd go back, not so much about African Asian economic emigrants that we could do much better in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u591	The esteemed representative Furio Radin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u592	You're the other one who knocks on the open door. Why didn't you mention why you only mention the Germans, why don't you mention the 350 thousand Italians who left everything behind and had to leave after World War II? So you knock on the open door. If you want to give these people back everything they've been wrongly taken away from them, I'll be with you. Thank you very much for mentioning this question, and I haven't talked about it in this House in years because I've been told that this question has already been settled. If it's not settled by you, then there's no solution to this, so let's sit around it if it's not settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u593	Thank you very much. Next, at the presentation of counterpart Radina, he had a replica of a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u594	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Radin, you know how much I appreciate you and we have cooperated and we will cooperate with the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and I think that this committee should be one of the guarantees right now, at least in this higher home, that all rights of national minorities are realised. Namely, members of the national minorities are not these and those who get rid of it when it's full of bags. The members of national minorities are also in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because the Republic of Croatia is the national state of Croatian peoples, as well as all minorities living in the Constitution and listed there. And minorities are our wealth as you yourself have said, but what I'm most concerned about is a lot of strangers, a lot of strangers because we don't know what's going to happen to all this, from education, culture, publishing, etc. national minorities. And I think there's actually a major dispute about it. I am pleased that your door is open and should be open to everyone who wants to discuss constructively both the future of national minorities and thus the future of Croatia and Croatian citizens. But I also have to express the reserve that we have too many unknowns in this equation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u595	Here's an answer from an esteemed colleague, Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u596	Well fate and the advantage of small, and minorities are by definition small, is to be tolerated and have an open door. That's why our doors are always open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u597	Thank you. Before we move on to the next club, some colleagues asked me about the next session. We'd end up with clubs, we've got three other clubs, then I'd give a break. And after that, we'll only continue our individual debates. Here's the next club that's next is the HSLS club and the BUZ time will be shared by distinguished MPs Milivo Spika and Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u598	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected candidates for ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, is an extraordinary honor for me today as a representative of the Block Retired Party, together I have the opportunity to speak for the first time in front of this largest home in the Republic. I took the agenda with me here because this is not the first representative body I've been in, and it probably won't be the last time, so it says here that this point of representation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the vote of confidence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Believe me, my personal impression is that over 90% of the time and debate was something that has absolutely nothing to do with this agenda point. If we were to ask for the rating of those who are looking at us right now, they would ask us two questions, which is why the new government in a situation like this with problems that are not already in their jobs, so I'll be free to say at least four hours. It's not because we didn't let them. I allow, of course, everyone's right to replicate this and according to the Rules of Procedure, but it seems to me that a good part of my colleagues' abuse of that possibility, and abuse seems to me to be the good will of President Parliament, who has made it possible to believe that each of these people will still be responsible enough and that they will not abuse such a thing, it turns out to be a rule. Accordingly, I will feel free to say that if some sporting discipline in the beating of empty straw were to be so that we could make here an invincible team at a level much greater than the Republic of Croatia. And since our job here is us as agents and future government the one who should make the people happy, I'm afraid that after these discussions today, the people will say that they would be most happy to have a part of them tie a good rock around their necks, go to the Sava Bridge and to the deepest part of the lush down. It would be a shame and a benefit, of course the victim, but we say we'll make someone happy or not. I didn't expect any details to be discussed today from the prime minister, about the programming guidelines. Today, I saw our future Prime Minister as a person who tried to give a brief overview of what should be done and we're going to work. Don't waste time on these empty things. In order for this to happen, we have here today an opportunity to meet all of our future ministers. And if someone were to ask the question now whether these are the best candidates Croatia has today then they could probably give various answers, and I will say that I want to believe that these are not the best that Croatia has for two reasons. One is that it is a motive for them to do their best and another reason is that those who are not in their seats are also doing their best to show themselves to them as an alternative. Are all our proposed ministers today the persons we have met or have we had the opportunity to know through their public action? No, they're not. A good part of people is one part of us relatively unknown. But in no way does that mean that it's a reason to doubt any quality. Because if we say we've entrusted Mr. Oreshkovic's mandate, we've also given him confidence. So we believe he'll choose the best team. And therefore there is no reason why we as partners of the Patriot coalition should not support this government. Of course, not unconditionally, of course. Because we coalition partners have made a maximum contribution to this change of government, and indeed by making a maximum sacrifice, we have been prepared to give up everything that is otherwise the consequence of every parliamentary election for one simple reason, we have a commitment to a little more than 4 million people who, of you, we, too, expect something with full right. And who and what do you expect from us? It's those 100,000 people that have been left this country in four years. Isn't it our job to try and find and create conditions for these people to start returning to the Republic of Croatia? Is it not a shame for this country and for the previous government that the largest number of people left the Republic of Croatia during the previous period is from the Slavonia area in which several decades ago people from those karst parts came to save themselves from hunger? Today, unfortunately, instead of Slavonia, we have more and more of those waiting to cross the state border. It's our mission to get these people to start thinking back. We have a commitment to over 300 thousand people looking for a job, no more work in the profession, no more work. It's not just a commitment by ruling or opposition, it's an obligation for all of us. It's an obligation for all of us to stop that we/they, or what was before or what would be the day after tomorrow. It's the job of all of us. Those who don't realize it unfortunately live in a past that will never be ripped out of. We've got over 340,000 blocked. What do they expect from us? To help them, not to repay their debts but to help them as people to find their jobs because they did not come to a blockade because of madness or stupidity, but people are increasingly losing their jobs in Croatia, all of them are in some loans and simply losing their ability to return these loans and come into the most difficult situation to remain very often and without the only roof over their heads. It's our duty to help these people. Our promise was to all of us here to help them. In Croatia, there are slightly more than a million and 200 thousand pensioners, of whom about 70% live with a pension below the poverty line. Who cares? HDZ? SDP? All of us. All of us and the government together. Isn't it a national shame or is it our obligation to get those pictures of the mess around the container once and for all to be wiped out? Once upon a time, people were looking for plastic bottles, and today, unfortunately, food. And we all remember in the '90s when Croatia took care of more than half a million refugees and exiles in the heat of war, and no one was sticking around in the trash and no one was without a roof over their heads. We're the ones who need to finish this story. A little more than a million and 300 thousand workers we have at this time in Croatia have only one wish, which is that it has a reception that can normally live and feed its family. Are our citizens asking us too much? Is he looking for something that's not real? Are they looking for something that we're not able to fulfill? We want to believe that this government that's going to start working today can. And that it will not deal with ideological world-wide stories but that it will primarily deal with solving economic and social problems, which is why our message to everyone who will start doing these things tomorrow if you think that you gentlemen are not able to do it, please back up yourself while you still have time because you don't have to hope that they will take you down "resistance". No, we'll relieve you. We will choose you, but we will replace you. This does not mean a new radical procedure if we are looking for someone, a minister or someone, so we do not keep reporting as it has been known to happen in some previous governments that no one is communicating with anyone. Those who do not wish to communicate with their representatives will not have our trust either. And another fact in the end, so I'm going to leave my colleagues, and that's something that the previous governments have very often forgotten, and that's my parliamentary representatives, so this House, Parliament, the Parliament is your employer. You're not ours. You answer to us for work, not us to you, and we expect you to behave and to keep that in mind at all times. Therefore I will openly say on behalf of the bloc Retired together and the Croatian Social and Liberal Party in advance wish you successful work and be sure that our two parties with all their resources will be at your disposal at all times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u599	Thank you very much. Now you've only left a little more than four minutes of colleagues to Hrebak, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u600	No problem, that's enough. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am convinced of future ladies and gentlemen ministers. Dear Mr. Oreshkovic, on behalf of the Croatian Social and Liberal Party, I am speaking to you in a way pleased with your presentation. But I also hope you're as well aware of what awaits you. The whole public's focus is on us. Citizens expect a lot, citizens expect this to be one government that will bring us out of the crisis, which will help to make their standard rise and I am glad that in your presentation you are aware of this burden of responsibility that you will surely carry on your back, but also that you are ready to face it. The Croatian Social Liberal Party will support this Croatian government just because you stated in your presentation that your basic guidelines are the economy, economic recovery and improvement of all our citizens. Mr. Oreshkovic, you have our support, but also this way I'd like to relate to my colleague, Spik. We'll make an appeal. Rise up, be strict, stick to the very principles that you said in the presentation these three main, basic backbones to be part of your program. Try to rise beyond all the usual media spins, above the divisions. The Croatian state needs divisions at least at this time. We all saw what it looked like in the last four years. I hope that the next four years will be different and I hope that neither we nor them will be, I hope that Croatia will work together to raise what makes our citizens' lives better and what makes them a prosperity. Mr. Oreshkovic, I wish you best, your team. I want everything best for us and I want the Republic of Croatia to be in these next four years a much more advanced country. Thank you very much and good luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u601	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on the presentation of the esteemed representative of Spica. But first, a colleague named Ivan Klarin raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so please, what point of the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u602	Mr. President, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure more than once. Mr. Spika insults us MPs...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u603	Please, what article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u604	I don't have a Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u605	Then I'm sorry, I can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u606	This Regulation shall enter Mr. Spika insults us, on the other hand, persistently saying that we do not replicate senselessly. I think Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u607	Article 214 has nothing to do with what you're saying right now, and I'm asking you to sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u608	I think Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament should warn him or be...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u609	I'm asking you to sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u610	I'll sit down when I want to. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u611	I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u612	I think you should warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u613	Mr. Representative, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u614	A warning? You got it. And to them who insult us, you do not utter any warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u615	Mr. Representative, stop talking and take your place.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u616	Okay. Like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u617	I warn you all that breaking the Rules of Procedure and abusing any article will not allow anyone very clear. Thank you very much. Now we'll go to the replicas, the replicas to Mr. Spike's exhibit. First came the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u618	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Spick, we will not put a stone around our necks, nor will we jump off the bridge. We are elected here in Parliament to speak. Parliament is the place where it is spoken, where opinions are faced and where the best decisions should be made. Not that the government should start working today. This government could've been working for a month if it was willing to make a deal. Whoever's to blame for it is your decision. We can't decide. The most important decisions made by the Croatian Parliament are the appointment of the Government and annually, the adoption of annual state budgets, as they are through the implementation of the policy of a government. And don't think we won't discuss it. This Parliament has always been discussed, will continue to be discussed. And no one will decide how a single representative will discuss it, neither has the right to decide his club, let alone you decide what the representatives of the other political option will say. And I'd be more interested in you representing the pensioners, you're such a party if you said for example what it means to allow a stable and secure pension system. What does that mean? Will the new pensioners have even less pensions than those in the system of generation solidarity. If we continue to pay further in the second pension column, 5% of their pension will not be even 30% of the salary they made.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u619	The answer will be given by a distinguished representative of Milivo Spik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u620	Yes, I'd love to, but I've already raised a plate for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 240 just for a moment. No, I just got off the phone for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because there was no story here today about the pension system. [[Intruder Reiner: You cannot harm the Rules of Procedure.]] Dear lady, when there's a story about the pension system, you'll hear the opinion of the Retirement Block together. Secondly, of course I can't think of a way to force anyone to argue here, but arguing or obstructing is two concepts. So something is being debated when it's a topic, when it's a agenda, and it's being obstructed when the agenda point is used to distract or turn on something else. So, if anyone or any of his former colleagues found himself offended because he found himself in that definition that he was destructive in the debate, well, I apologize to anyone who is obstructing or destructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u621	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representatives of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u622	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Spika, so I will not use the word as you used to speak senselessly in this Croatian Assembly, I think everyone is talking because they were elected to the Croatian Parliament. Like my colleague said who you are to limit our time, what we will speak and how much we will speak and how much we will speak. You said that we could have had the government four hours ago that there was no obstruction because you think it's when parliamentary deputies argue it's obstruction. And I'll just tell you, you know, if, according to the statement of Mr. Oreshkovic's friend Mr. Oreshkovic, Mr. Oreshkovic had 3 hours to decide if he was going to be the prime minister, it doesn't mean that we have 3 hours here to decide whether this proposed government will get the trust of this Croatian Parliament. I don't know what you mean. Yeah, we're government that there was obviously more of your will, cooperation, I don't know what we could have had a month ago. We could have had it at that same session when the Assembly was established, maybe a lot of other problems wouldn't be there. But this is how I'm going to say, how this government was born, how the agreements were done and what was behind these agreements, so you know we have the right and the citizens have the right to know some answers. Of course, I don't have the illusion that we're going to get these answers today but we're discussing the agenda point, that's trust to the new government, the choice of Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, and that's based on the papers we've got. And we are asking questions about what is not written inside and we believe that we should write because trust is gained not on a beautiful face, not on the name and last name, but on the basis of the program with which the mandater comes before this Croatian Parliament. We didn't get that program and ask questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u623	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u624	Dear colleagues, I'm very glad you're talking to me. And no matter what you say, the Croatian public will get to know you better. I'm only sorry that our people don't have enough time to listen to this. And as for the government story and the Prime Minister, I'm sorry, you're disappointed because Mr. Petrov didn't choose you, he went the other way. If Mr. Petrov were today your candidate for Deputy Prime Minister then he would be St. Peter, he would be the best. If Mr. Oreshkovic were your candidate, he would have been glorified to heaven, but since he wasn't then you use that cheap rhetoric to demean candidates, future ministers and to make yourself public as some who care about the future of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. How much do you care about them we've seen in the past four years. If you were good then I guess those indicators would be much better. In addition, the SDP with its coalition partners has been through the entire negotiation process with MOST colleagues under all those reforms, some called them musical desires, but those were reforms. And you are familiar with everything as HDZ or members of the Patriot coalition. So you don't have any strangers. And in the end, these are still candidates for ministers and prime minister. The moment we confirm them as ministers and when they come to us here, make sure we have something to ask, because they'll be practically at the shooting range. We will ask them, we will seek answers because Croatia no longer has time to act as in the term of office of your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u625	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u626	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Spica, I must say I'm surprised more how you started the debate, by saying that you've had the opportunity to be in representative bodies. Well, maybe, I'm a professor by profession, so don't mind me, maybe we should re-emphasis here what Parliament is in a democratic state, especially in the parliamentary republic as it is, maybe we should discuss it. But even if it wasn't, and even the presidential system, I think choosing the Croatian government isn't at all empty, trivial as you're trying to show it. So you're saying we're beating up empty straw here. We're beating up empty straw like fellow Sobol said asking questions we're interested in, asking the prime minister, asking candidates for ministers. Unfortunately, we haven't heard from the prime minister yet, but I believe we will have some answers. So we can decide whether we want to trust or not. Well, of course it'll be here as you say at the shooting range. They were all governments so far from both their representatives and the opposition. But while you accuse us of beating empty straw and denying us the right to be chosen by Croatian citizens, I did not notice that you gave up the right to beat up the empty straw, but you beat up very well both this House and all the citizens who voted for us to hear their voice here, not to be silent. 'Cause what were we supposed to do, huh, big-time government support? There comes the prime minister, says his name and let's vote now. A fellow parliamentary democracy is something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u627	Thank you very much. They'll be answered by the Honorable Millivoje Speke.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u628	Dear colleague, by choosing you or anyone and... a member of the Croatian Parliament does not mean that he can behave as he pleases. Democracy has its standards, has its rules and written and unwritten. Democracy is not anarchy. We have a theme and it's perfectly normal that someone doesn't get to ask, but it's a problem, but when it's all clear to someone, and then they ask rightly, our citizens say okay, let's take a driving test and then we should even go to some psychological examinations. Well, if something's wrong, they won't let us drive the bus. A parliamentary representative can be whoever's on the list and then come here and say that someone's threatening his right. No, I just told your colleague that I am very pleased to have you talk, because the more you talk, the better the Croatian public will get to know you. As far as your work goes, we've all felt it on our skin in the past four years. So, we know you don't know how to work, now we'll have a chance to see how you know how to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u629	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u630	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, you say for the first time that you are in the Parliament, and I am already perfectly aware that demagogy is far the strongest of you. Because not only do you know what the prime minister or future prime minister and future ministers think, even though they keep silent, but you even know what the citizens on the other side of the television screens are watching us. And you, in your presentation, have reduced the government's leadership to the position of an executive director whose sole task is to raise profits in that company by 10, 20 or 30%. Unfortunately, however, I must disappoint you. The government's function is much, much, much more than that. The government must cover and have views on absolutely all segments of this society. We here today, as I said earlier, have been discussing and asking different questions all day, and we do not get answers. We didn't even get a trivial answer, it's not trivial, but we didn't get the mandate to do the anti-fascism thing we asked this morning. We haven't even got that yet. Furthermore, future culture minister to save the matter today makes a statement on a portal that says "I'm here right now in a completely different sense. The only relevant question is the program for my portfolio, and I don't see any particular cause of my ideological secession." So please, the nice minister is not a master or a local would say in Dalmatia that you need to change water or fix electricity so you don't care what he thinks. The minister must be from the beginning to the end of persons with the right attitudes in each segment. And I'm surprised here absolutely how people who are going to be ministers tomorrow, of course absolutely not all, don't get me wrong, don't understand that the future government, that the prime minister and ministry is a lot, a lot, a lot more than what you're saying today is an economy. That's why we've been asking questions all day. I'm surprised you're so gullible, you'll give Bianca a vote and a signature for future power even though half of these things have no idea what I'm doing. And so don't be angry about us asking questions and even asking questions on behalf of you, to save you in some way to get answers. Unfortunately, however, we do not get answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u631	Thank you very much. The answer to Milivo Spik's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u632	Dear colleague, the answer you get, you can be satisfied with it, you can not be satisfied, the answer you get to your question you can understand or not understand and that's your question. To understand someone's story in the way you want it and you have it right, it's democracy of course. Conscious government work on one segment or something is your right again. I'm just telling you what our 4 million citizens are interested in right now. They certainly don't care about this debate of ours here, but believe me, a lot of people are wondering if tomorrow they'll be able to buy bread, milk for children, will they be able to pay for the directorship, will it work at all? That's what people are interested in. Our outwitting here is not interested in any of those who are watching us right now. They want to know if they can get better tomorrow. Of course I'm asking anyone here what you think you should do now, then you'd say yes, yes, that you should implement a series of reforms because the goal is to make the citizens better. That you could have told your prime minister so far, but it's not a problem whether you know it or not, but how to do it. We, with full right and trust, think that Mr. Oreshkovic's team has an answer to the question of how. Because what we all need to know, and we believe that we have a person and a team who knows how and every single one of these 20 ministers about their resources, how they realize the story of one thing is once again trying to politicize and try to distort what it is. I believe that you will also be supporting the idea, I assume that Mr. Oreshkovic is like a person who comes from a completely different mile than we know here to accept all that is good. Well, it's in our interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u633	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u634	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Spika, representative of the Croatian Parliament I listened carefully to your debate and what many may not know, and I was also engaged in the history of the Croatian state and the rights here where you used to speak with the Reverend Croatian Assembly, so began the speech of the MPs. This isn't a place to keep quiet, it's a place to talk. Your debate lasted longer than the debate of the Prime Minister and with my respect for your age, according to the party from which you come and the population you represent Mr. Prime Minister is the most important person today, today is a solemn act for the Croatian people because we choose a new Croatian government, we have lost more than 3 months from 8.11. to 22. And also this parliament as the most representative body of the Croatian people should be the image and opportunity of our discussions and the laws we will pass tomorrow. I don't want to give you a lecture on what I say, per year, but it's nice to hear what the party and the representative thinks, it's nice to go to the face of the Croatian people in the elections alone with their party, so you get how many votes you get, how many voters recognize you. And the most important interest of our country of Croatia without banging on the left, either on the right, sometimes the attitude of opposition that is different from yours can improve the quality of the future Croatian government. And that is the intention of our representative, our Parliament and everything that we are going to do tomorrow, starting tonight, so tomorrow, Croatia and the Croatian people are important and these some disagreements and the way we are discussing should be adapted to the time in which we live. Then we won't waste any of our time, but we'll listen to those who have something to say. Mr. Prime Minister had five minutes to answer every club's opinions, and I believe there will be opportunities for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u635	Thank you. The next is a replica of Tomislav Zhagar's distinguished representative. ... You haven't heard from me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't see you. [[I did, I did.]] Excuse me. You haven't answered. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar. [[/Intruder: And you're looking at me exclusively. Okay, if you haven't seen, fine. Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u636	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear fellow Spika, here you may have after this replica to answer what you wanted. So leaving the Republic of Croatia is a tragedy for each of us, each man, especially a young educational man who leaves the Republic of Croatia it is not good for the Republic of Croatia. By opening the borders of the European Union, we can look for a part of the answer to the fact that some people have had the opportunity to go to better paid jobs abroad. God gave many of them work experience to return. However, it is not good, it is often used in public and you use it here to assess the reasons and number of people who have left the Republic of Croatia. You see, the government passed and you say that the shame of this past government is on so many citizens who have left Croatia. The past government has brought a series of incentive measures, a series of measures. Let's say one of the measures that was ridiculed showed good results and work related to starting a working relationship. There are a number of other measures implemented by the Bureau and many resolution ministries. And this particular debate that we're having here today, and it's in line with this document that we've heard, which the prime minister here has explained, we're interested in what these measures are, what measures that will enable people to hire, that's what we're interested in, and it's not talking about how we're going to change everything now just because we have the will. What measures are there, because here what I've seen is here at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, and all these measures were carried out by this government. Jobs don't even open incentives, jobs only open contracts. If you remember there when the 2008 crisis occurred in 2007, then there were major problems in the construction sector only how many people were out of work. And you can't just go on and on and on and on and on and on and on, it's all this government's fault. We slept through the whole decade before that, and no one else is responsible for it. So what we're interested in, I'm asking the prime minister here, what are these measures, how are we going to get contracts, investments and how are we going to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy? That's the key questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u637	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u638	Your esteemed colleague, of course, is your right to ask colleagues, ministers' candidates, to answer you as candidates. We don't have a minister in front of us right now and we don't have a Prime Minister. So we have a prime minister and we have candidates for ministers. The moment it's on the agenda and the individual plan and the program of every detail, then we'll talk. When we talk about the results of the work of the previous government and then we'll talk about it, I guess that'll be the point of the agenda. And with the propos of that little before, there are people who can talk for five hours and say nothing. You have people who are able to send a clear enough message in five minutes that everyone understands who wants to. And those who don't understand, if they don't want to, we can't help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u639	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the club HSP, Ante Starcevic will take the esteemed vice president of the House Ivan Tepeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u640	Dear fellow MPs and MPs, respected mandaters, candidates for ministers, respected Croatian Parliament president and fellow vice presidents. Croatian party law club Dr Ante Starcevic gives full support to Prime Minister Oreshkovic and all candidates for ministers. Just what we in HSP, Ante Starcevic, and what is part of the Patriot coalition, we have the entire pre-election time, we have a professional prime minister, and I'm glad that it wasn't just a pre-election story, but that now it's turning into a reality that comes into realisation. I'm glad what you talked about primarily about the Croatian economy, what bothers us the most is public debt, we see that you've already taken that step as a prime minister, I don't know which journalist said the other day when you went to Kitzburg as if you were going to the wolf den and it really is. Also what is important to us is an increase in employment, a reduction in unemployment but not in the way that Zoran Milanovic did statistically that it left Croatia 100 000 young people, and it is shown that there are much fewer people on the market than that right to reduce unemployment. It is also very important to us to prevent young people from going abroad. And perhaps the most important thing, perhaps the most important message with your choice of mandate for us in HSP, Ante Starcevic, is that you are coming from Croatian emigration. So high on the scale of our programming priorities is co-operation with Croatian emigrants. Attraction of this mind, this experience that our emigrants received in the business world throughout the globe and to bring this experience to Croatia, we talked about it not only in this pre-election time but also years before these elections. It is a message, I think that Croatia is sent that there will be no more policies towards emigrants as it has been led so far than I think that it will be policies like Israel, as is led by Italy, as is led by Ireland, countries with a large number of emigrants and Croatia has as many inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia as there are in immigration. And I think your choice sent that strong and powerful message and that's what makes us happy at HSP, Ante Starcevic, because we ourselves are very much holding on to that emigration. The emigration was very helpful at the beginning of the Homeland War when it gave its pain and financial and arming Croatia. Then, at one point, the Croatian emigration remained forgotten, on the margins, felt even deceived by certain amounts of money. But here today I am pleased that this Croatian truth through your character is moving in a new direction. I can also congratulate Mr. Karamark, who was at the head of the Patriot coalition, which he took that step that he also talked about in pre-election time and how he would say a step backwards and not a candidate for the prime minister, but what we talked about was a professional person. Also, I must warn from this place of one thing and give full support as the real minister, namely the candidate for the culture minister, Mr Hasanbegovic, or Dr Hasanbegovic. I'd just like to tell the mandater you've been listening to here all morning, all the time one pressure to give up the choice you've made and then they've been scaring us with those pictures that went public that this is the Prostitute Government long before it was known that Mr. Hasanbegovic is a candidate for the Minister of Culture. I was also mentioned by my party in the context of the Ustasha party and then they re-adhesived the label, so it's a quality to glue the labels so you can learn about it. But what is even more famous to me is that these labels of beautiful party members who are the legal follower of the Communists' and Communist parties' alliance, which is responsible for Bleiburg, Crossway, Goli Island and all the murders of those innocent emigrants from Croatian emigrants. And they rather than distance themselves from being ashamed of them exactly the opposite at a time when Croatia at the end of a process should join the EU they bring lex Perkovic and thus show the EU and the international community what they have to do with crime and criminals. That's why I appeal to you and to all my fellow future ministers, not to fall for this kind of pressure that's happening, because Dr. Hasanbegovic is a top scientist. I again ask the question of who of my colleagues has read, I would beg peace in the assembly. It's not right. It's me, can I get peace in the assembly or doesn't make sense here to say that you're in my word. Wait, you don't like what I'm saying isn't my problem. Mr. President, I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u641	I beg you, don't pollemize with your colleagues, and your colleagues please behave accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u642	So here I am at the end of my debate giving you one more full support like I said. You will have at the club of HSP MP Ante Starcevic one hard partner and I hope for a successful future four-year co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u643	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Damir Romec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u644	... Your debate at least was annoying, and I'm going to argue with the next replication. [[Specially enabled.]] So, the matter of the professional government. You've done it at least a dozen times. So, what's the criterion that you've qualified the future government as an expert? So, were the other governments unprofessional, were uneducated people and persons sitting there. So, what do these people do? So, I am simply not personally sure that you are able to list the names of all candidates for the Minister at this moment without help and reminder, and to use the stage of the Croatian Parliament for an amazing courtship to Mr Karamark is terrifying. So, to use an expression that will understand the entire Croatian public "It is disgusting!" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u645	The esteemed representative Ivan Tepeš will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u646	I just got off the phone with you guys not seeing up there from that bench, maybe I'm a little lower, so you don't see 'cause you're taller. I'll just say that anyone who loses has the right to be angry like my colleague Schucker said here streams of tears that you lost for your here and former prime minister, so that's enough answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u647	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u648	I listened carefully to Mr. Tepeš and he is talking about the professional government he will support, so I suppose he means Mr. Hasanbegovic here, in his own words. He calls on the profession. Says who read it from Mr. Hasanbegovic. I'm one of those masochists who reads things, so I read that too. But what I've been reading is what I'm going to talk about in my discussion, but here I've been asked by representatives of the Croatian Society of Writers and the Croatian PEN Centre, and it's supposed to be sent to you by the President of the Croatian Parliament, the media and no one is responding, so I've taken my liberty because I'm asked to say it briefly. The gentleman writes in a memo/problem signed by over 100 people and allegedly will sign them and more I suppose, I'm sure actually. Since Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic has no experience in the management of cultural institutions and culture as shown by numerous of his statements, we do not consider it an autonomous and creative space to be the only reason for his choice of the function to devote his mandate to ideological strengthening and cleaning. So here's also the opinion of the profession. It is about people who are from culture, who are writers, members of two respected institutions and who disagree and consider the appointment of Mr Hasanbegovic, let me say that to the blasphemous and impolite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u649	You've now hurt the Rules of Procedure, I'm not going to, I'm turning you as a new member of the Parliament for that. You hurt the Rules of Procedure because you were talking about something that had nothing to do with what counterpart Tepeš was saying. The point of the replica is to pollemize with it, not to express any of the letters, attitudes, etc. Here's not gonna answer my colleague Tepesh. The esteemed representative Branimir Glavas has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u650	Mr. President, that's exactly what I wanted to say, what you just said. And I would suggest that in such cases you take advantage of your business law and intervene, do not allow the MP to completely leave the topic and not stick to the agenda, not respecting the Rules of Procedure. So, I think you have the right to warn the MP immediately not to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pecnik didn't replicate, but he went completely to another area that had nothing to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u651	I agree with you as you can see, however, I consider that many MPs are new to the Croatian Parliament and have not arrived, have had time to study the Rules of Procedure and do not know certain things but ask them all to study it earnestly. Here's a colleague, Klarin, who's done the same damage to the Rules of Procedure. Which member was injured please?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u652	Yes, you have violated article 14 of Mr. President of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because you are again restricting MPs who are not ruling MPs to speak. And you've been doing it since the beginning of this session. I'd just like to remind you, Mr. President, please don't violate the Rules of Procedure and allow MPs of the opposition to speak. You are not in the market for the victims of fascism in Zagreb, but in St. Mark's Square.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u653	So, Clara, first of all, I didn't restrict anyone's right to speak, and I'm the last person to do it. I'm just as you've seen fellow Spic, not happy with it, I warned. And you already have one warning, I draw your attention to Parliament's serious place don't do what you're doing. You as an agent have serious responsibilities. So don't do what you're doing. Here I think we've solved that problem. I would now give my word as a replica to Honorary Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u654	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Tepeš, I am very pleased that you share my concerns and concerns about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I use this term on purpose because there is also a Croatian people's Corps living outside Croatia for centuries, which has been there by indigenous and domicile people such as BiH, Serbia, Hungary and we often forget about them. And it's an honor to a colleague of Oreshkovic who had the courage to come back and try to change our country. But I would like to save the message that we send with the very presence of Mr. Oreshkovic that we have seen in this programme at least something about that emigration and those Croats outside the Republic of Croatia because if you look at the key guidelines you will not find them in any letter. As for the victim's colleague was she in Bleiburg, was she in Jazovka, was she in Jasenovac or somewhere else where the victims and the communist regime were killed I think the victim was the victim. Ask your colleagues what kind of family I come from, where my grandfather was and where my great-grandfathers were and I'm a proud socialist, and I would never give it up. Because Bleiburg and the victims of Bleiburg and the fascist regime are not the same. Many people who had nothing to do with the regime were also killed there. And finally, as far as the Communist Union is concerned, take a look at these benches behind you, you'll find a lot of former members there, not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u655	Comrade Ivan Tepeš will respond to the replica, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u656	We will agree on one thing, my thesis for the Croats in BiH is that they are not Croatian emigrants. Because the idea of eviction is that someone moved away somewhere. So we'll agree to that. But I think you've gone off topic, I don't know where I've shared the victims and humiliated some victims. So I can't figure out why something's spreading and imputing that I didn't say. For me, every victim is a victim.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u657	The next replica is that of the distinguished representatives of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u658	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Tepeš, I wouldn't actually react, but because of one part of your debate where you actually called us in the SDP as followers of the former Communist Union, suggesting that we should be ashamed of our past. My colleague Tepeš, I'm here in the Parliament, this is my fifth term, and now I'm telling you like this, I'm not ashamed of my past. Those who are ashamed of their past feel that they have neither the future nor the present. I do not hide in my résumé and orderly writes that I was a member of the Union of Communists but I am extremely proud that I joined the first presidency of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia in 1990 and that I raised my hand between the rest and the historical declaration of the SDP and you, if I am not mistaken, seemed to have told me that you were a historian, I apologize if I did not remember correctly, so please look for this historical declaration in which the SDP clearly determined itself according to the past and the Alliance of Communists and for the crimes that took place on behalf of that ideology in our premises. So, I'm not ashamed of what I was and what I am today, but I am proud to be a member of the Social Democratic Party. However, here today at this session of the Parliament, when votes on confidence of future ministers on the confidence of the president, the future Prime Minister cannot raise his hand among others for those who today or for who today is candidate for minister, in this case the Minister of Culture who directly went against the fundamental values of the Constitution and today, when the debate is over, will swear exactly that he will respect the fundamental values of this Constitution. And if I am not mistaken in my résumé I am not hiding anything, which I was or what I am today, if I am not mistaken future Culture Minister was among other things a member of the Croatian Liberation Movement which was founded if I am not yet wrong in Argentina Ante Pavelic. There's that detail in his resume, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u659	The honourable representative Ivan Tepeš and the vice president of this high house will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u660	I appreciate that you're not ashamed and I don't think you should be ashamed. I was just warning that you're a follower of a criminal regime, and you're imputing to a man who has nothing to do with any criminal regime. So this is my main intensities that I was here in my debate to Mr. Oreshkovic if it may not have been in recent years followed the Croatian political scene, but that it was especially for those who tried this criminal regime, Lex Perkovic, to escape the trial in Germany, and this trial was meant to be in Croatia, to see why and whose order killed Croatian immigrants. Unfortunately for these crimes I've listed since Bleiburg, the Glog of the island and these immigrants until today, no one has responded. What counterpart Hajdukovic mentioned about these victims during World War II and in Jasenovac, many people responded. So, I just want to avoid imputing and harassing the Croatian public with something that is not true, which is that Mr Hasanbegovic never said anything contrary to the Croatian Constitution. Get out of context. He's a fellow scientist, a historian, wouldn't write so many scientific papers, wouldn't be that he wasn't recognized as a historian and let history be one of the sciences that questioned things, so he's asking again and again the 2nd World War and the events behind him. And let's not think that history is that propaganda from 45 to 90. Let us historians do this because obviously you all love history and there are few historians, so that's all I wanted to emphasize when I was talking about some crimes in the past. So that's my replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u661	Thank you very much. The next one is the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u662	A colleague of Gordana Sobol was already talking about our communist past and how we set ourselves upon it. Those members of the Communist Union who didn't stay in the SDP never fenced themselves, so it goes to them on their souls not us. And when you say we stick labels when we talk about antifascism, antifascism is not just a historical category, antifascism is a democratic flow of modern democratic society. In World War II, anti-fascists were all those who fought against fascism. In the postwar period for democratic countries, anti-fascism is a matter of freedom, tolerance, human rights. Unfortunately, in the communist world antifascism was equated with the communist rule and all that she brought was anti-fascist. Croatia, free Croatia, Croatia in the 1990s and in its Constitution has been defined as democratic countries, like these first countries. That antifascism is a democratic fluid it is in our original, in the Constitution on its original basis and so should be experienced. And it's not a flossula and it's not a label sticker, it's the reach of a democratic society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u663	The Honorable representative Tepes will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u664	Me again, I'll do it again. I don't understand where Mr. Hasanbegovic showed that he's not an anti-fascist. So you keep repeating one thing and the same thing after that old, hundred times repeated lie or even less times it's enough to become the truth. So you're imputing without arguments. This is all you've said are definitions that I agree with but none of them have been denied and violated by Dr Hasanbegovic. So, but here I say there are many fears. The Ministry of Culture has a CK archive that's in your possession so you don't give it to researchers, which is under the authority of the Ministry of Culture. Well, maybe there are some problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u665	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u666	It is quite acceptable that you speak critically about communism and do not like communism. We can all agree on that, but it's amazing and amazing that you like communist methods. You condemn some reformed former communists, those who haven't reformed with them, you're doing a good job, you're in a coalition with such an act. You're setting up Mr. Prime Minister's office and you're not doing him any good. Afterwards, you'll turn your tail and maybe he won't be able to go back to his company because he's in office. But that's why you won't care. A person who said to herself that antifascism was a floscule but a dear fellow, unfortunately, fascism was not a floscule. Neither did Ustasha nor Ante Pavelic who killed Jews and many peoples, and did the greatest harm to the Croatian people themselves, taking him to a difficult and staged a tragedy. And when we mention Bleiburg, that many have honored the victims, it is unfortunate that in that place where honor is paid to victims, some fascist party often manifests itself. It's an insult to both those victims and those who came to bow down to the victims. Therefore, I recommend to you my colleague, not only to you, but to all of us, that, finally as a people and as citizens, we be mature and aware that in the past, we condemn all that was evil and that we should be proud of all that is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u667	The Honorable representative Tepes will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u668	I agree, most of it, whenever the definitions are no problem but let's not equate anti-fascism and communism and let's not use anti-fascism as a fig leaf for communist crimes even during '45. years since May and beyond. So that's the point of the whole story but I'm saying this is the Croatian Parliament, this is a political institution, I'm a historian about this, I can talk to Dr. Hasanbegovic by morning, I don't know who else is a fellow historian, and we'll agree on most things. This is too short a time, so I say please don't throw on literally labels and flossules because you attacked a colleague of Hasanbegovic neither guilty nor debtor. You've made a public link across associations that are under your control and that's proof today of what you're doing in the Parliament, man, not to tell you to literally pull out your guts just because he's an objective historian who writes the opposite of what you are in '45. years of propaganda. And that's your problem and that's why you're angry and you openly tell the Croatian public and not so unargumented to attack an esteemed doctor, Hasanbegovic. And that's the truth and tell it to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u669	The next replica will be the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u670	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Tepeš, you, mostly in your presentations, are now repeating it in the replica, using that mass ratio and saying you, I don't know if you were talking to your colleague Ingrid Anticevic Marinović when you said that she spent 45 years or were thinking about all of us? So, colleague Tepeš, no collective guilt, there are individuals. In the 1980s, there were about 350,000 members of the Communist Union in Croatia. My colleague Sobol certainly remembers saying that she was one of the founders of the SDP that there were not so many SDP members at the time. Where these members of the Union of the Communist Party have disappeared. All parties have a colleague, Tepeš. You can't say that we SDP have no right to speak, I'm not a historian and I have the right to talk about history the way I understand it. Once again, I stress, there is no collective guilt. And as a historian, I advise you, read some of the works of the late President Franjo Tudjman and you will see that he fully understood what reconciliation was in the Croatian people and what the Croatian people needed. What you do is only lead as a division of the Croatian people. I'm telling you one more time, don't collect your guilt like that. If you have an individual, if you know of individual crimes, label them, name them. And all of what you say should be ignored is not true, every statement, every one of us, here and the future minister is quite serious and should be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u671	Thank you very much. First I have to apologize, something happened to the electronic system, we'll measure the time here, to everyone honestly, but unfortunately until it's fixed there will be dark screens. The Honorable representative Tepes will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u672	I've read the works of Dr. Franjo Tudjman, and right there in those parts, you can read that even then during that Yugoslavia, he unhappyly destroyed those myths that I'm talking about that are the work of a propaganda history of '45. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u673	The last replica is one of those distinguished representatives of Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u674	And Sabina's colleague came along just like I did before, so you didn't see me. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. [[/The President's intrusion: It may be, may be. Okay, it might be at the same time you, a few of you raised your hands, okay. Okay. Go ahead.]] Comrade Tepeš, today I congratulate you on the election of the high honor you have received that you will lead this Parliament together with academic Rainer. But I was just stuck with the card when he voted for you, so I'm sorry about that, I guess the Istrians don't like it. I want to tell you about the Communist Union, I'm '79. As a year, I think you're the '80s, so let's not talk about it, enough about it. Otherwise, I just want to warn you well-intentioned, sit on a chair where a prominent former member of the Communist Union, my dear former colleague Vladimir Seks, was sitting in a chair that does not hide it. Also the one you mentioned, which is the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman was also a prominent member of the Alliance of Communists, the Communist Party in his day. But let me get this over with and get back to expertise because we all had a mouthful of expertise until we got back to the Ustashas and Partisans, unfortunately. Now, let me ask you as vice president of the Croatian Parliament, do you think it is okay that this proposed professional government has not answered any questions from the representatives of the Croatian Parliament? What will your coalition partners say about the bridge because HSP AS and MOST are now in the coalition, along with other partners who advocate the Croatian Parliament's dignity that today Mr. Oreshkovic did not answer any of the only questions that came from our parliamentary representatives? Is it preserving the dignity of the Croatian Parliament or what it is?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u675	The Honorable Vice President Tepeš will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u676	Dear colleagues, first of all, I thank you for the congratulations you sent me even though you got stuck with the card and I love Istria doing 100 things and love me in Istria so it's not about Istria, you don't have to worry. The colleagues have their right to answer, not respond, if it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I hope how much I know the Rules of Procedure that they don't break their rules of procedure, so that's their right. As far as this year's talk is concerned, you're right. But about the discussion of the past, but I would only warn you that we are not the ones who triggered the debate yesterday, not today, about these topics that I am talking about, but just you. But of course I'll never stay in debt when I hear the lies of an innocent colleague, so let me answer you. And then of course we have all morning and all day to discuss it. So, so much for that. And there's a tall doctor. Franjo Tudjman, he was also in prison during this communism. So that's the same part of his biography.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u677	Now it will be replicated by the distinguished representative Sabina Gasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u678	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Tepeš, I simply have to react to your exposure. Your mouth is full of young people in your expression, in support of candidates for ministers and ministers, as well as support for the programme proposal presented today in the Croatian Parliament. What we had the opportunity to hear from you is one floscula, but not only floscula but also a notor lie that is often used for daily-political purposes, though not only of you. We had opportunities to listen frequently in the election campaign. However, it seems that despite the election campaign, we will continue with this trend, which is an incorrect figure that 100 000 young people have moved out of Croatia in the last four years. And you and I and we all here know that's not true. The fact is that in the last 15 years, the Republic of Croatia has faced the problem of migration, i.e. by evicting not only the younger population, but also the rest of the population. However, it is also a fact that if you already wanted to handle the exact data, then you could see on the pages and in the reports of the State Statistics Office that at the annual level Croatia is leaving 12000, and in it is moving about 8,000 people. If you wanted to enter a little deeper into the structure of migration, then you could see that most of Croatia is leaving with the moss of young people where the areas are, where they are in the power of the right parties. Here I come, for example, from a city like this, which, unfortunately, is one of the cities that is at the top of the young people's eviction. It has nothing to do with any government, but simply a bad city government that does not offer young people any perspective, which is driven by private, non-public interest and young people simply do not want to live in such a city. But let's release that data now. I would prefer it if we were already full of young people's mouths in these guidelines of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Here I go. [[I'd like to ask you to finish, because we're very hard on time.]] Thank you very much, President, I apologize. I would like there to be at least one measure in these key guidelines of the reform government regarding young people. Unfortunately, the word "young" is only in the name of the ministry and it's actually sad and sad. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u679	The esteemed representative Ivan Tepeš will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u680	... Someone didn't turn it off or what, you can't hear it? [[Specially enabled.]] These are German data that speak, so 90,000 people in the last four years. So, I didn't make it up, so feel free to check it out. And apparently you weren't in the hall, and maybe you were, I wouldn't want to now... when my colleague Schucker talked about it a lot more in the debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u681	And the final debate now is indeed a replica of the distinguished representative, Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u682	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my colleague who answered all about the SDP responsible for Bleiburg, Communism and HDZ's role in this story. Also, a colleague of Sabina answered what I wanted to say about the 100,000 young people who moved out for the term of office of this government. Interesting how in five minutes it became 90,000. I find it interesting until the end of the debate how much it will end up. But I'm warning all my colleagues, this story about a gentleman who's about to take over a cultural resort is clearly here to fool us so that we're dealing with ideological issues, because here Mr. Tepeš and other colleagues are aware that this government will not do anything about the economy. And perhaps Mr. Tepesh is preparing us for what will happen to us this year. Maybe now only 100 thousand young people will finally move out I wouldn't be surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u683	The Honorable representative Tepes will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u684	Dear colleague, I wish it were a camera recorded you when I was saying you said something very ugly in this Croatian Assembly, but it is if there is a camera it is an honor to you when I was speaking and I think it is not the way of communication in the Croatian Assembly if we are to fail then I think we will not get far. Here I am new to the Croatian Parliament. I don't think that's the way we can talk. You don't have to agree with me ideologically or in any other way, but what you said is very well you know what you said. The cameras here if they recorded it, but I wouldn't talk about it. But I'd like to ask you to hold on to one level after all. When I was talking about 90,000 people, that's all I said about Germany. So, I would ask you to follow my debate, and the world is not Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u685	Thank you very much. And now we'd move on to the last club of MPs, which is the Club of Representatives of the Most and I'd like to ask the distinguished representative Ivan Kovačić to present his presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u686	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here I am, the last exhibitor from the club representatives, and I have to say, here I am, I've decided to change my exposure. I'm going to cut it considerably short because I can see that the debate has already been delayed for quite a while, of course not diminishing the right of any representative, wanting every MP to say what he has to say. That's how it was arranged at the club of all MPs on Monday. I said I won't take much time already, because I think this is the first time that in the constitution of the Parliament, there are 12 club MPs in the assembly, so already, I say, it's already been over five hours that we've talked about and what's been going on. Of course, everyone, I want all the MPs to participate in the debate, but I want us to be focused, so I've already said that I'm going to have my debate and that's why I'm going to cut it short. Also, I'm not going to talk about government work for the past four years, and I don't think this is a topic right now to discuss government work in the past term. I think there were good results and bad results. Otherwise, MOST wasn't involved, it wasn't really a parliamentary party, so it's not right for me to talk about it right now. We want there to be criticism in the work of the government, of course, that these criticisms are constructive criticisms, to be of both the public and of course all of you fellow MPs, as I said the criticisms were constructive. And since I'm here for the first time, I'm thinking half of the MPs, I'd still ask that he be without insults and no arguments, actually without everything that, I think if there are TV transmissions of constituencies, that's why citizens change the program to someone else. Someone said, I think Mrs... Pre-election time's up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I couldn't agree more. So here's a bar in this presentation I'd like to appeal to all the MPs that the pre-election time has passed, but there's a huge polarization in society, a huge intolerance that someone has already talked about in their exposure, huge intolerance, enormous intolerance. I don't think the economic growth we expect from this government will mean anything if this intolerance and so much intolerance in society remains. MOST has taken on certain resolutions that we want to show responsibility and in which we want to deal with those things, perhaps what bothers the citizens the most. Someone also mentioned these inequalities in society, whether social or economic inequality. Someone also mentioned regional and developmental inequality. Yes, and it was mostly mentioned decentralisation where we will absolutely advocate decentralisation from the central government to the regional and from regional to local self-government. And that's not just about decentralisation of money, it's about decentralisation of power. Economic reform is important, we all talk about it, but we all expect it to be mentioned before the reform of law, justice and the security of society is equally important. I'd like to complete my presentation on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. I can only wish to future ministers, vice-presidents of the government and prime minister successful work for the next four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u687	I'm probably gonna skip someone because the whole string's up at the last minute. But at the very least the first one was a colleague, Ivan Klarin, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u688	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Blacksmith, do you know what I hold in my hand? This is a statement signed in Zagreb by Mr Petrov on 6.11.2015. I'll just read you the last paragraph from that statement. "If MOST of Independent Lists unilaterally joins a coalition or co-ordinates with a party that has managed Croatia over the past 20 years and allows the majority in the Croatian Parliament to guarantee that I will resign as the president of the independent lists." How do you interpret this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u689	The next replica is the esteemed representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u690	Dear President, dear fellow councilmen after a conservative revolution in the performance of our colleague, Tepes, we have now experienced some fear and haste in the statement of colleagues from MOST. I don't know what you're afraid of. Apparently, these two coalitions have found a rescue in Canada, and it's easy to find a prime minister. It is obvious that the two parties have finally agreed to divide the loot so that we can expect a government that, according to Mr. Brkic's statement, will restore dignity. You have dignity or you don't have it. There's no one to repay your dignity if you don't have one. Which translates into suppressing the secular state, pushing the country even deeper into passion and nationalism and conservativeism. The direction is also discussed by the announcement that you will establish the Ministry of Demographic Reconstruction, reportedly Croatia is extinct. That you will establish the Ministry of Homeland Security that will present even more xenophobia. It is interesting that the future prime minister does not speak well Croatian but certainly knows that it is not yet time for a Cyrillic to be introduced into public space. It's a fantastic gain for our nationalist parties that interact with each other, it stretches out their hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u691	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u692	President-in-Office of the Parliament, my colleague Kovacic, here I really appeal to you, I literally ask you, since when you mention MOST, the first thing that comes to people in Croatia is reform and second expertise. In your statements, in the statements of your President Petrov's Vice-President of the future Government, the spokesman, Grumoje, has been made clear that the process of reforming education based on the Education, Science and Technology Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament after 120 experts from non-partisan experts started a full curricular reform in which 450 experts work in 50 working groups selected in a public competition where experts were elected. Stopping such a curricular reform would be a crime for Croatian society. Since you have supported legislative reform in your campaigns, I ask you to insist on that and now that you have the possibility of concreteising and making decisions both in the Government and in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u693	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u694	Thank you, Mr. President. On the side of the candidate for the Minister of Culture Mr. Hasanbegovic and his crypto constitution, because Mr. Hasanbegovic is a right-wing candidate, and the right-wing government has right-wing men who think in Croatia in the same way as 90%. On the side and Mr. Tepeš, with his fear of Yugoslavia, of the communists, it is completely irrelevant, are the Ustashas, Partisans, Partisans and Ustashas. But, Mr. Kovac, you're above it. You're supposed to be above it, you're actually in the sphere of reform, and so my question is, that's my replica of your exposure and I'm going to continue at the next sessions further, actually, what about the reform of local self-government that's not being mentioned anywhere? What about the community reform, the cities that there are too many? What about the county? What, therefore, about the massive reforms that the critical mass of declines will be, in the way that you were approaching HDZ or the Patriot coalition? So that's the question, Mr. Kovac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u695	The next replica is the distinguished representatives of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u696	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Kovacic, in your haste to finish the debate if I'm not mistaken, you haven't decided on behalf of the MOST Club whether or not you'll support the proposed Prime Minister and Minister. You didn't say that in a pay phone. Excuse me if I overheard. But like this I can say, if this is all you had on behalf of the club MOST and on behalf of MOST as a party tell the Croatian public after the last two and a half months I can only tell you the wave of honor. You know why? Citizens expect answers from you from the Most. Here you have mentioned several reforms, please tell me where these materials that we have received and I believe that you have read them and that you have also participated in their work, even if in part in their making the mentioned reforms are seen to be implemented through any ministry or several ministries. How will the expenditure side of the budget be reduced? To whom, in fact, who will stand it, how will the citizens feel about it? Don't just say that tomorrow will be their well-being, happiness and satisfaction because here we are today. So, I think that you of MOST still owe a lot more explanations to the Croatian public than what you said on behalf of the club, on behalf of your colleagues and colleagues, from this pay phone. Of course it is your right and your way and I believe that citizens will appreciate it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u697	The next replica is the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u698	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Kovacic, what is evident from your presentation is that you support not only this government, but that you support this government's program. Honestly, I can understand that, it's the subject of certain political arrangements, negotiations, but I'm sorry you're on that path, I have to take the right to say, give up the principle and step down the word. In two important things to me, there is no reform in this programme of all the reforms that MOST advocated, which is the regionalisation of Croatia. And the other thing is your colleague and spokeswoman of the party speaking, of course on behalf of the party, in their MOST, Nikola Grmoy just 18 days ago when a journalist on a television show asked him what good measures he supported in the government's work among other things were the introduction of civic education, the introduction into schools of an educational segment that would develop and strengthen civil society and the question of whether MOST would support the full curricula reform of Nikola Grmoi on behalf of the Most just exactly 18 days ago, he decidedly replied that. I am sorry that in 18 days, you are actually supporting a programme that stops one of the key projects not only of this government, but of the creative and vital projects for the future of Croatian society that has no ideological colour, which is a complete curricular reform. I'm sorry to have to say this, but unfortunately, you who advocate in fact are in some way demeaning the work of 450 experts and all on the orders of politicians. I ask you, there is still time I hope for you to correct this injustice and that this government, this government, I appeal to the mandater to give up this devastating move, which is to stop the curriculative full reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u699	The next replica is the distinguished representatives of Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u700	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Kovačić, I see that you are in the trend of Mr. Tim Oreshkovic's team and that you will not answer our questions, perhaps mine and you will. You said in your debate that you believed this government would start economic growth, I wonder on what basis? The only thing we got here is an empty table with some kind of economical terms completely empty, maybe you can explain to us what that means? You said, my colleague Sabina said that you support her, that she heard you say that you support this government, and I must admit that I didn't realize that you decededly said that on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, I am saying that I support today's proposal from the government. You didn't say that because you're ashamed of it or you answer me and say no. And there's something you've talked about in your beard, maybe it's a little nervous the first day in Parliament, but you're still a public person, so I believe you're used to being mayor of public events. I'm asking you to be a little more decadent because it turns out you're not very comfortable in supporting the government's composition. And let me ask you one more thing, will you, as mayor of Omis, if you are no longer a representative or if you are a relegator of your six-month salary after the term of office?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u701	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u702	Dear President of the Parliament, I would like to ask you, in fact, today seems to have been some strange virus in this House because except that the Prime Minister and the Government are already here how many hours did "A" say to all of our questions the virus has begun to spread, here now fellow Kovacic has suddenly shut up. So I'm asking you to give us a break as soon as possible so that at least we in the back lines can save ourselves and we can keep working later. But I have a question for my colleague Kovac. I mean, like this, you didn't answer my colleague Clara's question. I am also holding the same statement as he says: "Whom I, Bozo Petrov, president of the Most Independent Lists, who confirms the consent of all MOST candidates to the community by the end of the term of office.". On the other hand, "If MOST Independent Lists joins one coalition or coalitions with another party who has managed Croatia over the past 10 years and allows the majority in the Croatian Parliament, I guarantee that I will resign as the president of the Independent Lists and place my possible parliamentary mandate at the disposal of MOST.". So please, either give us some other definition of what you're doing today with the Patriot coalition when we know it's not a coalition or already... So we know what's going on and what you're doing or someone be honest and resign. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was certified by a public notary if you didn't know. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u703	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u704	I thank the President, so here's an esteemed colleague of Kovacic, so I listened very carefully to you, and you counted here all the clubs were saying and what they were saying but you didn't say a single word about what MOST was politically representing. We still have no idea what you're offering, what reforms these are, so there's not a single reform in this government programme. What you mentioned, not a word of it. You yourself are silent at all lunches and what your colleague Klarin has asked you and what your colleague Paric asked you to sit tight and keep quiet. The Croatian public remains unclear as to what you advocate. And now I'm asking you loud and clear, what exactly are you advocating? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u705	The next replica is the respected representative of Tonchio Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u706	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Kovačić, I can say that I am somewhat disappointed by the position of the Council of Councilors Club MOST because the summary of the previous 7.5 hours and discussions in this House has only been presented by you behind the pay phone and there are many, many questionnaires left. You are advocating reforms, talking about reforms, and I expected at least you, given the day-to-day resolution of the mandates and other clubmates, to stand up for the mandater, but you have been silent. I believe that not only are we parliamentary representatives but the whole public should also receive decided answers, which is how reforms will be implemented through, which are listed in the guidelines, who and how will remain suspended by implementing reforms and ultimately when these reforms will result. Unfortunately, none of that matters. I ask you, can you answer me what will happen to local self-government reforms where the area is very interesting for both you and me and a lot of other colleagues who are headed by the local self-government unit? What will it bring and how will reform take place regarding the use of certain resources of maritime goods, ports and the like?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u707	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u708	Dear Mr. Kovac, I'd like to rely on your part on the duration of this debate. Personally, I like to participate in meaningful and reasoned debates and I don't think that's what this is. We're on the agenda now, we should discuss this government's work programme. I know that in the next 4 years, the government will determine the full operation of the entire Croatian society. But I think it's unrealistic to expect us to cover all the laws and all these areas in this debate. I think colleagues are asking us to talk about curriculative reform, talk about parliamentary salaries, talk about the salaries of local officials, and I don't know what topics didn't open there. You, without further ado, have the right to do so and we do not intend to deny you that right. However, a measure of application of a specific right determines the content. So when you do, I'll say a play like this, when one of your MPs speaks for 15 minutes and then your other opposition representative rephrases to him, so this one responds to him, and it now stretches this way regardless of what you have the right to do and no matter what it takes really critically to look back on the government's own program, but it should be to some extent. This measure you've taken I don't think it's good, I think it's one play, I'll use that word, I think it's something, it's one shooting. It's something I didn't like to see in this Assembly Hall until I was a parliamentary representative. So I'd like to take care of ourselves in a way that we're looking out for the public, that what we're doing makes sense. And we don't deny you your right, but here we really think we should do it to a certain extent. Because I'm saying that measure determines the content of what... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u709	Comrade Ilcic, I must draw your attention that you have replicated your colleagues to Kovačić, so please stick to this replica institute. The next word came from a respected representative to replicate, the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u710	Here I would only tell my colleagues Kovacic that he may have forgotten to say, as many questions arise, that Croatia is growing to sign a set of reforms that we have proposed may not have read it well, but they have signed it, so we expect you to support it in the future. Thank you. That's exactly the kind of reform we're going to be carrying out.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u711	The next replica is the distinguished MPs Ingrid Antičević-Martinovic. You called, didn't you? I'm sorry, then I was wrong. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u712	When the government is represented in Parliament and the government's programme in Parliament, it is not only represented by parliamentarians. He introduces himself to the citizens as well. I don't need attention. [[I'd like to ask you for some attention from my colleague.]] And citizens would really like to know what the reforms are, not just what the goals are and what the guidelines are. [[/The incursion president: No, no. But let's not talk, let's still hear what our colleague is trying to say.]] You'll already have to start working on the state budget tomorrow. As we are in a system of excessive deficits and economic imbalances along with the budget, we must deliver a convergence and reform programme to the European Commission. We would also be interested in this whole debate just to hear what reforms will be attached to the state budget, not to wait for the state budget itself. Your two groups that will make up the government went separate into the two-program elections and we're wondering how you agreed on a joint programme. We didn't get that. And to my colleague Kovac, I expected you to say something about it, as my colleague Schooker said on behalf of HDZ. He expressed the position of part of the HDZ programme, and you devoted one big subject to only 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u713	The last replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go. And I'm sorry, I didn't see it. Excuse me. It's the last one, then. Come on, Comrade Sagar, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u714	Here's the Honorable President, a very short replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u715	I'm begging you, we're gonna have to have a list of names in the future because we can't do that. It's very complicated to work like that. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u716	Thank you, Mr. President. That's right. Very short. A colleague of Kovacic is on the trail of what his colleague Bilic said, so so so are many colleagues here. Since you are not responding to replicas, and it would be good to answer all the questions is actually, and when we talk about reforms that are reforms, how they will be implemented. Your representative, Mr. Lovrinovic's representative, was, in fact, quoted in the media as saying that, in order to make a good solution, one crash of the course would be. After that, there were messages from Kitzbühel that it was not good at all, that we were not playing with it. When we talk about reforming the local self-government of counterpart Karamarko said it would be nothing at least when it comes to the county. However, when we talk about a large number of municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia, this is an extremely important issue. In these municipalities and cities people work, in these municipalities and cities live people, in these municipalities and cities there are fewer and fewer people. So what we need to tell people today is clearly what we are planning in the future, how local self-government will be organised. Because I don't think the municipalities should be abolished, they should be filled. If we are going to fill them in this way, first of all to the inhabitants, if we are going to fill it in such a way as to organise it differently, but that should be done, the Croatian public is interested, and I am sorry that we do not say it loudly here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u717	And now, indeed, she is the last of the distinguished MPs, Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u718	Thank you very much, President. In fact, my colleague Kovacic has never had a briefer discussion of any of us MPs in the Parliament, and she has caused so many replicas. I mean, I don't mean to waste time like some colleagues thought it was done. You mentioned in your brief discussion the Ministry of Justice of Reform. Namely, we've got these materials I don't know the Prime Minister if you've got them as well as we have, so where's the list of ministries who have which resolution and which are the planned reforms in that part. Well, I don't mean to be a fool, but I'd just like to read it if you didn't. So, the Justice Department on the side is writing MOST, so your proposal for a minister, rationalization of the judicial mail delivery system, whatever it is, whatever reform it is. Strengthening real security. Additional court appointments by overtime in courts with major delays in the trial. Furthermore, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Arrangements of the Patriot coalition still structured in a slightly different way writes among other things. To amend the Strategic Investments Act, which will allow for the final launch of important economic projects in the Republic of Croatia. I'm a little surprised. So the Strategic Investment Act is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, but ok. The Ministry of Construction, meaning the Patriot coalition immediately initiates the process of uniting the land book and catastra, which will introduce order into the space of rapid investment, facilitate our lives, I support absolutely. Why isn't that in the Justice Department? Did you agree, because it turns out, you'll forgive me, too, the prime minister and future ministers, it seems that you only agreed on people. The Croatian public is also interested in what will be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u719	Thank you very much. Here's the time, and you'll get an answer from the esteemed representative Ivan Kovačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u720	Well, I'd like to say that I changed at the last moment of exposure because I think I'm, the first thing I've done is I think it was absolutely peaceable to cause such a large number of replicas. Because I thought what I'm saying is there's going to be a huge number of replicas that won't have anything to do with the exposure again. Yes, unfortunately, this is my first session of these parliaments, as I've said to half of the MPs, and someone has said that they've replicated that there's a virus of silence. Unfortunately, there is and it seems to me after the first day of the virus of absurdity that people from the same clubs appear at the presentations of certain clubs. Unfortunately, that's what happened now, but it's been happening all day. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u721	Thank you very much. That's what we've done with the club fairs. Before I decide to take a break, I just want to tell you that Because there's going to be a break, that's why. [[/Intruder: Why break?]] I want to tell you that I calculated by the number of persons reported if there is no replica, and all those who have applied to want to speak in an individual debate, that time is about 7 hours. So we're going to approach the government vote somewhere, if that's what happens if no one gives up, about 1.30 a.m. in the night. After that we will continue to work, it will take one 2 hours because it will also take the Mandate-Immunity Commission then the report and then we will have the selection of the Selection Committee again and again one break and after that is another 3 hours. I'm just drawing your attention to the sequence of time that's happening. And now I'm taking a break by 6:30. Thank you very much. It's the 17th.39 p.m. We continue with an individual debate and the first in a row is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.30 HOURS]] Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u723	Thank you, Mr. Croatian Parliament. This debate about the government's programme, the presentation of candidates by mandaters takes place at the appropriate time when people mostly dress some departments, rakes, but today all masks here in the Croatian Parliament have fallen. Unfortunately, we had a costumeball where instead of arrangements of clear and loud dancing, there was this crab dance and as one of our famous writers, the columnist spoke from the beginning, the Most wanted to go with HDZ but he was embarrassed to bring HDZ to power and now how to do it so he said go, get out of the closet, admit first to Dad and Mom and I love HDZ and it's over. So you'd already have if that had happened fairly and openly already these moments were far behind us. However, here, regardless of all this coalition or how it has a synonym for its performances, it has the right to give its mandate. However, it is truly unusual, and this has been said by many politicians that for the first time, such a person does not have a substantial democratic legitimacy, although it is the right of both HDZ and MOST themselves. However, it is indeed a minor problem. We now come under constitutional authority of the prime minister that he is the one who draws it up. We've seen these processes from day to day, I've felt sorry for the journalists who received them, and the departures, the arrivals followed, someone was uncomfortable, someone enjoyed it all. There were the words of the people who said that we would, the prime minister would say his opinion on it. It's good whether the public sees it or not, and it makes sense that it happens somehow. However, we are now coming to the prime minister, who is the only one responsible for the people he represents today as candidates for ministers. And tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or the time has come to account for each of them and for their biography and for their work you can't... I was framed by HDZ, the MOST planted it on me, there's no, it's over. He still has time to think about it today. Maybe he didn't know some things, but if he knew some things, he was directed, then he's gone. The truth is that politics is said today, often said, and it's not good, it's disabling politics, today it's said one thing, tomorrow it's said another, but for the first time we have a man who's created this coalition that signed so now he has confirmation that he's not telling the truth, that I'm using euphemist words. So, with the prime minister, I've said before he doesn't know these people, and it's obvious that he doesn't know them, that he can't identify them without paper, that he doesn't know who they are and he answers for them. It's not good not for some procedural reasons, but the old Latin proverb is if something from the beginning can't do it badly then over time or convalitate. A journalist also asks a very interesting question here, certainly Mr. Prime Minister doesn't know and perhaps better not to know, often the question is where you were in 41, then 71, then 91, and he gives us directions, says don't ask and don't ask the prime minister where he was in 91, but where he was while the government was putting together? Mr. Kovac said he was at another location, but I'm not saying this because I object that he was at another location because the other location won't exculpate him from responsibility. Because I particularly liked the fact that Mr. Prime Minister appealed to responsibility and it is good for both the institutions and every citizen, and of course the one who has been given more and the most is asked of him and the most. What I would like to say, and especially once more, to apostrophe what kind of policy will this government have if it is appointed to lead? The Prime Minister, the prime minister today, the Prime Minister of what kind of politics will he lead? Mr. Prime Minister, as a practical believer, knows very well the great, great con of the devil himself, whose biggest dog is to prove that he doesn't exist. And so when politics or some political actors want to say that there's no such ideologies, that we're not going to have any politics without ideology, then that means what we're going to do, it's some kind of technical management structure that's going to, but they still have some kind of ideology. This is profit, therefore, which policy will lead to, therefore, fundamental human values and individual sectors. That's what very good people want to know. These are the values on which every society rests. And then when you don't have or say you don't have that kind of value, then you get a candidate who denies it, who says antifascism is a floscule. Now that we're going home, anyone, when we go outside, the SDP, any delegation, HDZ also has no country where we don't boast with pride and with the right to our anti-fascist struggle and our contribution to liberating the world from the fascism boot. But when we get home then some people say no, it's not for our citizens, it reminds me you know those old slippers that we all have at home and we're wearing, and when we get out, it's a different thing, but it's underestimating citizens. And let's not do that because that's not good. I say we accept what was good and condemn what was bad. They say this is the government of experts, each profession has its own directions and theories. You in the economy have tens, that better economists know, tens and tens of schools, they're all experts. Well, experts from Wall Street have caused a breakdown, they've turned black, they've done it on purpose, out of ignorance, I don't care, you know. So we have both experts and experts but we want ideas. What are the values that we will and what are the policies that we will implement politics as a whole and politics through individual resolutions? So let's not play, the state exists, if we depolitize politics then the state becomes unnecessary, we have big corporations and let them do whatever they want. But they wouldn't do it yet because the state serves them as a pig bank when you let everything go wrong so that we can do what we want and when they fail, then they ask for a recovery. Well, I'm really interested in whether the government is ready to serve the citizens, to bring laws in favor of the citizens above all, and their view of their improvement, of course... anyone in particular who works hard, who owns or small certain crafts or has more capital. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in any case, whoever has more must participate. I'm also interested and I believe all women and not only women, but all conscious men, and in Croatia there's a lot that will be with women's rights, with the rights of minorities of any, sexual, orientations of this or those? Maybe they're already most of them, who knows, who questioned it. So what does the prime minister think of abortion? I believe given that, you can look at it, that the company where he worked is therefore not only producing and selling birth control pills but selling and abortion pills, so I believe he won't mind... that women are free to decide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But of course what's going to happen in school, in education. What about health care, we say, we keep better, more efficient health care, but what does that mean for a citizen, will health care be available, will it be more expensive education and health? That's what citizens are interested in. But speaking of some ideas that are very important, when it's not discussed then you have the same candidate who says he's going to work, making a register of traitors. We know throughout history that the traitors were mostly, which here was said not only by aggressors but also by those who are You thought differently from the others. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u724	Thank you very much. We have one, two replicas. The first one is the honorable representative God Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u725	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In the previous debate, as well as in this assembly, and in the Croatian public, you could often hear and hear criticism about this partnership and this treaty of the Patriot coalition and the Most. I claim that the Patriot coalition and the Most have pulled or made the only right and rational move. In the pre-election campaign, the Patriot coalition and MOST offered changes, offering a different policy than Croatia's growing coalition, led by the SDP, which offered the same policy, or continuity. And in connection with that, I don't think of anything better than the words of German scientist George Richembergh of the 18th century who said about this "I don't know if it would be better if it were different but as far as I know it had to be different to make it better.". Therefore, the policy offered by Prime Minister Oreshkovic and this composition of the Government are for strong Croatia and I, as a Croatian, know with confidence that only strong Croatia can take care of interests and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and only a strong Croatia can absorb all the patriotic and creative potential from the diaspora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u726	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u727	So you see this program, presented to us by the mandater, is more than any individual record of political inexperience, i.e. Here we are. In Croatia today and for better tomorrow, as mentioned only under point 7 of the important changes you are calling for are very valuable, and I think that the great value should always be curious. We are curious to ask, the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister answers with a loud silence, and we must be content with what we are, and that is a point of seven blessed with the beauty of our homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u728	The next replica is the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u729	... I am not surprised, but I am disappointed that after 4 years of economic and social collapse of our homeland and today here in the Croatian Assembly, SDP representatives are discussing fascism, antifascism, Ustashas and things that are definitely past, not what is before us and not the future. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Human rights and the rights of national minorities are definitely and will be at the focus of the new Croatian government, as the constitution, so on the exercise of the rights and laws of national minorities, the rights acquired will be respected and will be worked on fundamental and other additional rights for members of national minorities and respect for human rights. And you mentioned women's rights among other things that was one of the reasons why I volunteered for the replica. Certainly, Croatia's new government and most in the Croatian Parliament will ensure that women's rights are respected. We will not behave as you have been acting for the last four years and have not been able to ratify, for example, the Istanbul Convention, which would protect all women and children who are victims of domestic violence, so among other things we can mention that the majority of the SDP in the Croatian Parliament also decided to postpone the quota, so on the number of sub-represented sex on the lists that we now had in the previous elections for the Croatian Parliament. So it's what's being spent and what's being spent, not what's being said. We'll do it and we'll prove it in the next four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u730	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u731	Dear colleagues, here to talk about fascism, antifascism is not, our only answer was to the candidate, Mr Hasanbegovic, who had nothing to do with saying that antifascism was floscule. So esteemed and dear colleagues, look up to Mr. Prime Minister, so what can't be spoken of, then it would be better to keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u732	And the last replica is the distinguished representative of Peter Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u733	Thank you very much. Here is the honourable representative I would like to replicate, and some of the predecessors in essence, because today's debate here is the majority of SDP MPs, it is said that they are still complaining about the lost elections and unfortunately cannot help them. However, I believe that the Parliament is neither the place nor the time to be led, to run its own within a party campaign that has set out in their ranks, proving essentially who is the bigger Bolshevik. To speak today in front of this Parliament all the time to mention totalitarianism, to mention antifascism, to call on, therefore as a mere flossul, to appear essentially on this subject, to abuse European anti-fascism and turn it into Stalinism and Titoism, I find it extremely inappropriate. We've heard those words more than once today. So when there's nothing wise to say, then there's a call to antifascism, to partisans and Ustashas. I'm asking the question of who's more interested today, why do you keep bringing us back to the past? Young people today in Croatia no longer want to hear stories about the past, want to be part of the economic programme, want to watch how to ensure prosperity, how to stop emigration from Croatia, prevent what you started, so 100 000 young people, because today, too, through this debate, they have clearly shown who are actually chauvinists because all the time, they are fighting over a man who is a candidate for a national minister, as a member of the national minority. So, what's different than chauvinism? It's extremely hypocritical and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u734	The distinguished representative Antičević Marinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u735	Sir who mentioned Ustasha, who mentioned partisans. Dreaming about them all the time is your problem, and that's a serious problem for you. So you need to learn to replicate and interpret and interpret how you heard what I said. I have looked back and this should be looked back if you hear that antifascism is a floscule, then we are talking about the anti-fascist values of the free, which, on which the value is founded, is free Europe and the entire free world. I'm talking about antifascism as humanity and nothing else. And what you're dreaming about is your problem. It's like the Ustashas, the Partisans, the Communisms all the time. Let's say once a live new one, let's all live here together, but Ante Pavelic finally dies already.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u736	The next individual debate was attended by a respected representative, Tomislav Koncevski.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u737	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. As long as we're in this anti-fascism, let me just tell you one thing, that the president of the anti-fascist Croatian defender and Croatian officer is just that you know and stop talking about it, because I think there's been a lot of Ustasha and Partisans. I've got one and the other in my family and I've had enough of it. It's important to me that my child has bread and that he has a place to study and study. I'll tell you one thing about it, I come from northwestern Croatia from the third constituency, and I read in one local newspaper that Mr Petrov said that there was plenty of local patriotism because Minister Hajdas allegedly built roads in Zagorje that were not needed. I think that's terrible. I see that there is local patriotism among ministers here, and roads have been built all over Croatia always and will always be built throughout Croatia. And I don't think they've been built in Zagorje for 20 years, and now it's all of a sudden local patriotism. We've been nagging about the old roads for a long time, and we've had both the president and the minister and the Prime Minister so they haven't made roads, and now there's a man who is and there's a problem. Look, I've been thinking about what I'm gonna say today, and I'm also a defense attorney, so a lot of things have been bothering me about these defenders, and there's been controversy all day around the defenders. I am extremely proud that there are people who have defended Croatia and who I have great respect for. And there was a registration of some kind, that register of traitors. Of course, I'd like a register of traitors who stole the state right away. But there's never been a register of wartime military invalids where we're sure to find some who aren't wartime military disableds who take bread from children of wartime wartime disabled people and they're certainly fake people with disabilities. Why wouldn't that register ever be published? That's what I'm interested in. Various registers are published but never to be published, to see exactly who is disabled and where he has experienced this disability, and a lot of money on it goes away. I won't be long because we still have a lot to discuss. I'd just quote the same General Patton, read one of his quotes: "If you spilled blood for this country to pay for it later on to say how much that love costs to pay for it and buy shit from here, go where your country can buy for money." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u738	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u739	Like this, on the register of these fake disableds I said before today in the debate that we got... The former states of all characteristics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd ask the gentleman if he'd ever read "The Battle" from '99. the year when SuBNOR chief Dusan Pekic said this: "We have 300,000 false Partisan pensions only in Croatia." And if we weren't sitting here all night, I'd recommend one thing, this is how I realize that we're under heavy pressure from the past, but I think some people are under a heavy pressure from a psychopathology caused by communism, and we can help you, we have two psychiatrists and a neurosurgeon who can operate on you to get that red chip out of your head.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u740	The honourable representative Koncevski will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u741	Sir, I highly appreciate you as a defense attorney, but I'm going to answer you like this, I don't think this problem is from today, that this problem should have been solved in the '90s, not now. And the defense problem was supposed to be solved then, not now. I think we should solve economic problems and economic problems now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u742	The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u743	Dear colleagues and colleagues, what the prime minister presented to us as his programme and members of his government, or is the future government we are likely to vote, not impressed me. Which doesn't mean that there aren't people of quality, respectable but there are also those who are causing doubts, controversy, and we're kind of discussing them all the time. This society needs a thorough social and state reconstruction but here is actually offering some cosmetics, some retouching. There was always talk of reforms, MOST was fed up with both God and the devil with its stories of reforms. I don't know what was not mentioned because I think they can hardly count it all themselves for what they stood for, and ultimately nothing. I have not heard any announcements from the HDZ, but the president of the parliament may have announced a reform of the Croatian Parliament in the Croatian National Assembly. I don't consider that a big contribution to the comforts. But here were the suggestions. I don't even know why it caused anything to go to the public notebook. Why did he act like a kamikaze, it's his business, but I'm interested, right? But we didn't really know what those reforms were. But we found out what the Most wants, and the Most wants to actually do with HDZ. And that's his right. But then as it was said here, that's what I should have said. The mandate says it wants to recover the economy and see it through a reduction in the budget deficit and public debt. But if that's the way, I'm not an economist but here's what I do for a little bit, the question is, how do we develop production, economy and employment? It's kind of incompatible, at least to me. Or there's some magic I don't know about. In any case, it actually opens up a whole set of social development issues, worker issues, labour rights, protection of workers, etc. We actually hear very little about it or we hear little about it. And it's an obvious social defect in this whole program. If we talk about these reforms, then we stress that there is no need to talk about ideology, I can agree with that, but it seems to me that here is actually about ideology and ideological issues actually insisting on just the members of the ruling coalition. It comes to them as a handsome bone we actually have this minister of the future Hasanbegovic, so we're going to push him, we've heard the protests are being prepared, a large number of people have signed that petition against him. I can only list some if I have to, but in any case it's also about respectable people in the field of culture, literature. Among others, I will only list some Igor Stiks, Tomica Bajsic, Damir Karakas, Renato Baretić, Ludwig Bauer, Slobodan Šnyder, Nikola Petković, Drazen Katunarić, Drago Hedl, Snježana Banović, Goran Rem etc. etc. Branko Chegec, there's plenty of them. And in fact, by discussing these ideological issues such as, where we insist on the opposition, in fact, in peace under that model of known privatisation from the war or after the war, it will actually privatise everything that is yet to be privatised in Croatia. We can see that he was talking about health care and everything else that's going to happen. Lights are important issues, of course not crucial without ethics and morals can be, but how can you, without culture, but how and how? We here in culture haven't actually said anything but we've actually spoken too much about the appointment of a future culture minister. But about being a culture itself, not a word. So these worldly issues are important because we are talking about the values on which a society rests. Mr. Karamarko said in a recent interview that he was an anti-fascist, that he was but also an anti-communist and anti-totalitarian. I would only remind of the words of Adam Michnik of the communists are worse only anti-communists. But if he really is an anti-fascist, then what the hell does he need her to propose to Mr. Hasanbegovic? Because then Hasanbegovic is an anti-communist. Well that's not the solution, I don't see it as a reasonable solution and I'm talking about that there are public protests of people from culture who still represent this country. You know all of us here who talk and sit around are relatively irrelevant, because these people who write from them will remain something, something will be forgotten but they will recognise Croatian culture. Well, I guess that voice of the profession should listen, too, but I hope you should listen a little bit. When we talk about, I don't want too much about Mr. Hasanbegovic, it doesn't make sense, but actually it's about relativizing the past, about restoring the past in a way that is extremely inappropriate, why does he need it best? Whether to say that Croatia was defeated in 45 years is simply a little out of mind. No one here wants to dispute the crimes that occurred from Jasenovac, until I know all the possible ones on the Crossroad, on the naked island, etc. So who's reasonable can justify a crime? Well, no one, of course, but you can't just watch that, now she's actually here, Cheslav Milos wrote great about it, Ketman. We have about this thought we know that HDZ must not publicly say what we want to say to the radical right hand but we will actually act as if we understand what it is but we will force our own. To make your own means to have, say, a request for lustration. So why didn't you do a lustration in the Czech model that's the most painless of the 90s when it was time? So who'd stay at HDZ? Well, HDZ would have disappeared in the beginning if you'd made a lustration. What kind of lustration do you want? I am for lustration, but what are you going to accomplish, which one are you going to lustrate? Then we have this famous defense register, pardon national traitors, I apologize for my mistake, national traitors. That's all a crazy man can ask for. I agree with the fact that the Homeland War needs to be talked more about in schools, but also more about civic education in schools, multiculturalism. Well, we're facing the challenge of refugee migration. We have not said a word here about the EU and we are a member of the EU. The EU faces major changes in institutional, a whole series of negative trends you have primary and secondary as it is said professionally. The primary is thought of migration, secondary to catalonia, these separatist movements, the growth of terrorism, etc. etc. I haven't heard a word about it here. How are we going to behave, what can we do to contribute there? These discussions where we actually limit fascism in some way or at least allow it to live among us as something only understandable, which is neither good nor only understandable. A whole set of other questions, women's rights, say, how many women do you have in government? I see two, three. He almost didn't have a woman on the HDZ list. So what kind of message is that you're talking about demographics, about protecting your family, I don't know what you're not talking about, and in fact, your wife serves you obviously as a birthing machine, at least that's how it can be understood. At the same time, a senior HDZ official said that he had brought Mr. Prime Minister while he was moving, so he recommended that he be prime minister and this man agreed not to know what he was getting into, but he will find out, there will be time, he said he was glad that the time had finally come for practical Catholics to lead this country. So he listed I don't know Mr. Karamarko, Mr. Rainer, Mr. etc. etc. I don't mind, I'm not a Roman Catholic, I come from another mile of reformation but I really don't mind. But let's not turn this society into a society of new political similarities because there are also people who are atheists, atheists are not unbelievers, atheists just believe that God is gone, they are also believers of their own kind. Therefore, we take note of the consequences of all these statements when we make certain statements. And in the end, there'd be a lot more to talk about, but time's running out, so let me get this straight. This Croatia that is offered here is not my Croatia. I do not see such Croatia, I am a member of the national minority, I am Slovak and minority religious and national and political however you want but I was born in this country and I feel this country as my country. And I think I have the right to speak as I speak. If you don't agree, it's better for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u744	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Steve Culei.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u745	Dear President, MP, a friend through our late Minister Ivan Vekic, this is a question of lustration for reasons that the lustration was carried out in a good way that we would not have in Croatia cases of Perkovica, Mustac and people in certain state functions who worked more for the other side than for the Croatian side. The question of lustration is very important, for what reasons, so to have in one way, in one form at least some hint that we know in a particular case who we're dealing with because in the world too, it's known that everyone has some lists so that they get or withdraw certain people from these lists according to their abilities or incompetences. Furthermore, when you mentioned these lists, there is another list, a list of Croatian defenders. Why is it an interesting list of Croatian defenders? It is interesting that I could go through Serbia freely at the time of Milosevic and today I don't dare because of the list. There's another list. A list of Croatian defenders, not disabled and disabled. As Special Ops Commander, I've been looking for insights to get me a complete list of people went through my unit. There's about 500 people on that list I've never, half of them I've never seen or heard or heard of. And I also know that there were 48 Croatian defenders in this Croatian Assembly in the previous alliance. And what is the defender, what is the definition of the defender, should be determined by the Croatian defenders. It is not enough to wear a uniform and pass a day around Zagreb and say I am a Croatian defender. My defensive path and those I led and who led me is much stronger and much harder, more morbid I can even say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u746	Thank you very much. We'll hear the answer of the distinguished representative, Pecnik. There's no answer, okay. The next is the distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u747	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In the vision presented by the mandater, we heard that we would like to, and I agree with that, probably everyone here, that Croatia has more economic growth over the next few years, to ensure greater competitiveness and better quality of life. I would add that Croatia will become a society of equal opportunities for all. In order for Croatia to be a society of equal opportunities for all, surely two areas are crucial. Of course the right to work and to a fair salary from honest work, but before that it is health and education. So without equal access to health and without equal access to education in every part of Croatia for each child according to his abilities, wishes and needs of society Croatia will never be a society of equal opportunities for everyone. I won't be long about education, about health, but I must say that I really expect that in all documents concerning health care we ensure that in Croatia health care is solidarity, comprehensive and accessible to all alike without increasing service prices and participation and that thanks to such health care in this vision which was spoken of by the prime minister for 5 years in Croatia we live two years longer. It is my vision of how to ensure that, through the improvement of quality of life, quality of health is something that will ensure that Croatia lives longer. We talked a lot today about education, and it even seems to me that we are close to a consensus because really if there is a topic that can be equal to the subject of joining the European Union because we had an absolute consensus, then I think it is an education. For the simple reason that education is much wider than the mandate of one or two or even three governments. The kids who go to school next year will end up at least 16 years in the best case scenario. So in 16 years, we'll only know what we've done with the curricular reform. And that's why it's a good thing that curricula reform is no longer a stalemate for the simple reason that it wasn't political. She was over-the-counter, she was expert and she was absolutely national interest. I will briefly remind you that the guidelines for the creation of the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology have been developed by an institution where no one can say a single comment of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts made guidelines for the creation of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy in February 2012. And after that, colleagues and colleagues, full of two years 200 experts, not politicians, 200 experts fully freed from politics developed the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology adopted by the Croatian Parliament. The head of this project was also... The man Neven Budak spoke with all clubs of MPs, with all segments of Croatian society, civil society, the Church and received a consensus on the project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Based on the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology adopted by the Croatian Parliament, we have received absolute commendation from the European Commission and have obtained the right to use European Structural Funds and the European Social Fund. So questioning the strategy calls into question the use of huge funds coming from that fund. And as the crown of that process, there was a curricular reform. I will remind you that since September 2015, more than 450 teachers and professional associates have worked in more than 50 working groups to produce curricula documents. I've said it several times today, and part of the future ministers took part in it. Absolute support, the task force, received the whole project from the country's president, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. It was attended by all segments of society. So I appeal once again that at the beginning of the work of this Parliament, this calls on, at the beginning of the work of this new government, education and curricula reform is something where we will achieve consensus and ensure that in the next period we have no longer any delay because it simply cannot wait. So if you can't wait somewhere, you can't wait to introduce a completely different education system. And what's most important is I want to tell you that in the creation of this curricula reform, nothing has started before me, it's just starting with me. Therefore, all the best from the Croatian national educational standard and the national framework curricula have been taken into account in the development of curricula reforms. Therefore, the new school for the 21st century is something that will provide the vision that Mr. Oreshkovic spoke of. And I'm gonna end up with this, and I want a lot of happiness from the Minister of Science and Education on an idea that's written in these papers, which is to integrate the university. So, colleagues and colleagues, if there's a party group of people, then they're people at the university who oppose the integration of the university. The group includes both SDPs and HDZ and MOST. It is an out-of-party group that is extremely powerful and I want a lot of happiness and success from future Minister of Science, Education and Sports because an integrated university is also something that will ensure the realization of the vision that Mr. Oreshkovic spoke of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u748	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u749	... They've been saying really little, and they've done even less in all these decades. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Education available to all yes, but what has been done to regulate scholarships for students and students? What has been done on this matter these decades? For the first time in this government's programme, it is clear and loudly said that the issue will be regulated. It's the only way education can be made available to everyone. The data that 20% of our students live in families where income per family member is up to 2000 kn. How do you think these students can get out of school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u750	The esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u751	Absolutely, colleague, you're absolutely right. It is therefore essential to ensure that education is available. And so, if there is a success of the Croatian government in the past term that you cannot dispute, it is ensured that the subsidisation of a billion kuna of secondary transport without which many children would never see a high school, that a billion kuna for the subsidy of scholarships was secured so that all students who regularly meet their student obligations have free study and that 80% of the total fund for scholarships was increased, because we clearly said that in the future we should direct support to students and thus ensure that all persons whose incomes in the family are lower can finish their college. And of course, the construction of student homes which is part of a major project of European University Sports Games where Rijeka and Zagreb will host in 7 months, which is another success we are certainly proud of.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u752	The next debate will be the distinguished representative of Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u753	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Oreshkovic. Well, I'll try to be as short as possible. I don't think I'm gonna use my time to speed up the debate. The HDZ is an opposition party and does not belong to the ruling bloc. But my wish is if it is in Croatia's interest for the Croatian Parliament to vote today, give its contribution to the Croatian state getting a new Croatian government to start solving problems. I speak as a parliamentary representative on behalf of my party. The HDSSB wants to make its contribution after the two-and-a-half months of parliamentary elections to solve the accumulated problems in Croatia. These problems should be addressed by the Croatian Government. Mr. Oreshkovic, you have been given the trust of the President of the Republic to draw up the Government and we respect that decision. And I personally, on behalf of my party, can tell you on behalf of the HDZB that we will vote and give you confidence, to you as the prime minister of the Croatian Government. This trust applies exclusively to you. You have 20 men here, a candidate for ministers. You chose these people to be part of your team. I'm not gonna use these 10 minutes and you're cutting down those candidates of yours. You believe, as well as everyone, there would certainly be a reason to find hundreds of objections or more objections, perhaps most of those candidates, but I do not want to direct the debate in this direction, but I stress that trust goes to you as the prime minister of the Croatian government. And you will see what kind of associates you have chosen for the coming days and weeks. Whether these associates will be able to handle assigned tasks or not to be able to handle assigned tasks. I personally and the HDSSB in this House will give you some space and time to vote on the 2016 budget, and when we vote on the 2016 budget, then we will be able to bring some sort of assessment and assessment of whether you, as prime minister, present, already Prime Minister and your Government will at least announce the resolution of these problems in the coming period. I know it won't be easy. It's a big job, hard work, hard work that will require painful cuts. And normally, if you make moves and you take those cuts, it won't all be accepted with sympathy in public. You are aware of taking this risk, but you are also aware that without these cuts Croatia will simply not be able to secure a better position, it will not be possible to create better assumptions that Croatian citizens live better in some recent time. So, the HDSSB will tonight, with its two votes, support you as a mandater and in some indirect way and your candidates for ministers. You're going to have a tough job for the next few days and weeks, I'm saying it from my own experience. The media will cut down every one of your ministers, pull out his guts and be exposed to media x-rays, public presentations, and it won't be easy for you. You will be safe in the situation that you will have to do at the most recent time or we won't have to wait long when it happens to defend your ministers, justify your ministers, or if the public finds out about some things that we don't know about right now you will be safe and forced to make human change again, team up the Croatian government. If this happens, have the courage to make moves, change the figures because it is important that Croatia gets a government that promises a better future of Croatia and the entire Croatian people and all Croatian citizens. So, the first test for us after this trust you'll get now will be the 2016 budget. From this budget will be able to read a lot, a lot of things, it will be possible to see if those moves that follow promise a better future for the Croatian state and for all Croatian citizens. This morning, when we came to the Parliament in front of the Parliament, people called themselves Platform 112. They gathered together I would say in very one inappropriate way and at an inappropriate moment. A group of bucos who "protested" this morning under quotes against one of your candidates for Minister Zlatko Hasanbegovic was not led by these motives that are trying to present in public because Mr Hasanbegovic once said a sentence that may have been inappropriate or that today 10, 15, 20 years at this time is quite different interpreted and derived either from context or derived from some other past time and normally that all of this sounds different. So, the point is that they did not come before the Croatian Parliament today to protest against Mr Hasanbegovic as one of the members of your team for these reasons. We know who's behind that 112 platform. These are people who have been used to living well on the burden of Croatian taxpayers over the past 20 years and withdrawing money from the Croatian state budget. More than billions of kunas from the Croatian state budget can already be said for 20 years, sometimes more, sometimes less, draws and divides so-called. NGOs, and behind those so-called NGOs have nothing more to hide than the personal interests of the individuals who run those associations. At the head of these associations are different leaders of Pusici, Sarnavka, Terselićka etc., etc., I speak in the plural I do not go to anyone personally. And they felt what they were following now when the cuts followed. It's going to be cut where the state and the people hurt the least and that's the so-called. NGOs and they'll be out of money. For this reason, they were making noises in front of the Parliament today and creating an illusion in the public of some dissatisfaction. I don't know much about Mr. Hasanbegovic, but that crime can't be taken as important, crucial that he can't be part of the team. So these are the reasons why she's trying to create in public the impression that this government is going to be like this or like that, that she's going to have some kind of prostitute label that just doesn't stand. The goal is to upset the public. They have risen to their last feet from the Croatian Journalist Society and some other associations and sections of leading people who are not unknown to their views and views towards the Croatian state over the past 25 years. I'm not gonna name anyone, but just analyze who's running these organizations, so just do their work for the past 25 years, and we'll all be clear. Is that over yet? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] Oh, my God, thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner: Yes.]] Allow another sentence. You have the confidence of my personal and HDSSB as a mandater, indirectly and your team, but you are responsible for this Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u754	We have, which could have been expected, three replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u755	Dear colleagues and colleagues Mr. Glavas said, "I'm sorry, I have to learn that I have to speak to Mr. Glavas, you're Mr. Glavas, we know who's behind platform 112," right? I think that, I don't know who's behind that platform but I know that civil society, civil society and human rights ideologies mean a lot to the democratisation of this society and that the people who work there really did a huge job at a time when many others didn't dare do it, you don't have to agree with that, but I think it's a great contribution to civil society in Croatia as a state. At the same time, you said you didn't know much about Mr. Hasanbegovic, so if he ever said anything derived from the context, etc. Well, when you don't know much about him, then you can't even talk about him, that makes sense. I would just remind the Roman Senate's rule to banish something from public space, to banish something from public memory. Mr. Hasanbegovic is doing exactly that with his texts. He wants out of public space out of public memory to banish antifascism. I can say it responsibly because I've made an effort, so unlike you, I've been getting a little information and reading. Next time, get some education, and then we'll start talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u756	Thank you. The Honorable representative Branimir Glavas will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u757	Comrade President, if I don't know about Mr Hasanbegovic, but I know a lot about you. You were the last, on the last Central Committee of the Communist Union of Croatia, his member. I didn't speak of Mr. Hasanbegovic at all, I spoke of the prime minister, talked about the trust of the prime minister, I said that we trust the prime minister and indirectly his team for whom he is responsible. So your replica doesn't stand, you claimed something that had nothing to do with what I was saying. The only thing you said exactly, that you led me to say in this high house that I know everything about you. One detail is what I told you earlier. So we know exactly what's behind you. And as for civil society associations, I'm not to shut down completely, but I can't spend it, I was told just now, suggested it was nearly 2 billion kunas a year, 2 billion kunas. Count it down with years and you'll get to the amount of money spent from the state budget for these so-called so-called. private NGOs. HDZ bought peace, so they gave them a little. The other side when it came to power used them to instrumentate HDZ, so they gave them even more. This should be done more because it is the money that goes into the private pockets of individuals and we expect in the budget that the prime minister is taking care of it and that it is already in this budget. Then, in that case, you'll be trusted with me for the next month, two days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u758	Thank you very much. The next replica is distinguished representatives of Karoline Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u759	Thank you, Mr. President. I am extremely sorry that you did not interrupt this hate speech in the Croatian Parliament, which my colleague Glavas expressed to people who came before the Croatian Parliament this morning as representatives of civil society organisations and honored them with an offensive gesture as much as I have seen in the media as I have seen today. So, I'm sorry that you didn't stand up for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have the legitimate right to express dissatisfaction with the fact that the person XY is running for Minister of Culture. Therefore, what Mr. Glavas has just done here, and this is an account, a threat, a labeling, the introduction of fear, terror and what you will see when we come to power, then we will abolish your funding absolutely something that is unacceptable for us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament. The least he could get was a warning. Mr. Glavas, representatives of civil society organisations, not only those who were here this morning, but all others who advocate democratic values in Croatian society are no noisers, these are not just people who live on the burden of the state budget, these are people who therefore submit projects to annual funding mainly at the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which we will discuss next week, who are very transparently submitting annual financial reports, who also know how to write EU projects and who may have been among the first to receive money from other sources and not from the Croatian budget or from the national foundation. But what you're propagating here now and the way you're courting the prime minister and the ruling majority is absolutely unacceptable to me, but of course the mandater won't answer what I'm talking about right now because he's silent as he was today since 9.50 when he finished his opening speech. This is embarrassing for the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u760	Comrade Leakovic, I have heard many things here today during these relaxing hours of various colleagues. My assessment is that there has never been a breach of what means freedom of speech in the Croatian Parliament. Because that is why there is a Croatian Parliament that people express their views on which we can disagree, but that is why democracy exists and therefore there is Parliament. And your instructions to me on how to run a session I suggest that next time in the parliamentary elections you compete, so maybe you become Parliament's president and then you run the session the way you think it's appropriate. And now I'd like to give my word to Mr. Nenad Stazic, and I'm sorry, I've denied the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u761	So I'll fight back. My fellow MPs, I supported the prime minister and made it clear that I am not giving support to his team indirectly through him. He responds, the prime minister is responsible for his elected associates. And for the next few days and weeks, the media will be filled, the guts of those people who have accepted that duty will be removed, and I'm not saying that it may not be established. If anything is shown, the Prime Minister will have to change the team. So I haven't individually scanned and analyzed any of his candidates for the minister. And I'm not adhering to the Prime Minister, I'm an opposition here, an opposition, an opposition, and I have no reason to court the Prime Minister, but it's our duty to give the man a chance, God forbid he can do something. As for civil society or so-called civil society. Not government associations, I certainly know much better about these associations and NGOs because I've lived in politics for 25 years, then I've acted 25 years of outstanding duties. I've been in the system and local self-government and state administration, and this is my 8th parliamentary term if you didn't know. And you can't read me lessons. And if I deserve a warning, feel free for the president to give a warning, I consciously and consciously accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u762	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u763	Comrade Glavas, civil society associations are not so-called associations. They're real, they have a reason for their existence. They didn't make any noises of personal interest today because they were afraid they'd get less money. They protested against something today, which I personally think should be protested and a good part of society, a large part of society thinks it should be protested. Because it represents one social danger. NGOs are necessary to correct every society, both the authorities and the opposition because they do not have the political interest to come to power and can therefore be the best corrective. The announcement of the confiscation of funds to civil society associations leads to totalitarianism and is extremely dangerous. Only totalitarian regimes allow no civil society association, no opinion except that of the official Government. I can understand that you don't like some of the attitudes of some civil society associations, some of the attitudes of some associations don't like them either. It's your right. But we have no right either of us to strive to reduce the influence of such associations through the withdrawal of funds. A large number of these civil society associations are against gold crimes and war criminals who have served time or who have not served time. Many of them are for equality, national equality, so they do not distinguish between whether some Serbs and others are Croats. Much of them are for gender equality, so they try to equalize rights or advocate rights regardless of sexual orientation. They are an important element of every civilized community And your attack on them is extremely dangerous. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u764	The honourable representative Branimir Glavas will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u765	My colleague Stazić, I did not say that I am against civil society, they can survive, they must be allowed to work, let them work, but I cannot under these circumstances in which Croatia today is the main consumers of budget money. Between billions and 2 billion kuna a year it's huge money, huge money, let civil society choose to tighten the belt and let them work. And you mentioned their duties and their tasks, so let them do it. It is your right to your opinion, your position which you have now expressed, and it is their right to come before that Parliament but let them say openly what is behind that protest. This isn't the backdrop of that protest, it's the money behind it. This is why there is noise in Croatia, that is why even Croatia is threatened to write about what will be written to international institutions, foreign states, foreign embassies of powerful countries, threatens Croatia, and behind that is only personal interest and hundreds of millions of kunas, millions of kunas that garden in private associations and that end in private pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u766	Thank you very much. The next debate will be her distinguished representative, Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u767	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs on the left hand side of the assembly and on the right, distinguished Mr. Oreshkovic, Croatian Prime Minister. I would like to address you as a representative of the HDSSB, Mr. Glavas has announced our support to you, your program and the people for whom you are responsible. And you are responsible first of all because you have accepted the duty of honor which is not easy at this time for Croatia and is not easy given the time and situation in which we live and which you have found. I have been a representative for 6 years in Parliament and today I have been uncomfortable and I believe that since you have worked in an environment that is completely different from where you are sitting today, but I am glad that you are as an experienced man, with great international experience, come to Croatia to help your country. You are called for your stay in Canada, I would just like to say that Canada is one of the countries and our Croatian people in Canada, our people who went to work there to feed their families, but help their country in defending their country, did much for us, as they did in Germany, as they did in Austria, as they did in Switzerland and in many other countries. Thank the Croatian people and there for loving his country in the way he could. And many of their children have defended our country and left their lives here. So it's a shame that Canada is mentioned and the government of Canada and your stay there in this context. To me at least as a representative, it's one way or another, but here you need to speak frankly, openly, as anyone can judge that he can make a contribution to his country as a parliamentary representative. There are a lot of problems waiting for us, Mr. Prime Minister. I'm seeing this as a program today, an announcement of your government's program. There will be a lot more because there are many tasks, there are many open issues and there are a lot of work in front of Parliament. This High House is the answer to the implementation of your proposals and laws and what will come before our citizens. What we, as representatives of Slavonia and Baranja, expect, is that on the State budget for 2016 you will show understanding for the needs of all parts of Croatia, especially the wrong Slavonia and Baranja which out of poverty, which is from unemployment, which is from the departure of young people to countries outside, which is from waves of refugees coming right through our area and our territory, the corridor you have followed through everything that is bothering us, and this is great unemployment, a major crisis, one hopelessness. We expect the future prime minister of Croatia to be evenly developed, because as Zagreb, Dubrovnik, Dalmatia lives well, so do we Slavons and Baranci and Srijemci and we want Slavonia and Baranja to live, and this is our common task. We will support those laws that we consider to contribute to our country, and we will also not be for what we think is not good, and we will believe such proposals. Your government is the government that you proposed, but she wanted me to or didn't acknowledge the government's compromise. Politics is a compromise. And some people, since you've had more candidates, have been compromised, but we expect you as our future prime minister to be the team that you've announced. It would be unserious to expect any opposition like we have here in the House today to be against your proposal and against what you've exposed. I'd rather you took advantage of your business opportunities and every club in five minutes which your right has answered. You have something to say, you have learned to speak in a decent world, in people who do business, who earn their knowledge of their bread, you have something to say to MPs who unfortunately return at a time when I as a representative relatively young do not want to live anymore. I don't want to live in the past where our wounds are suffering from these or those with their ideologies. We saw that three, four weeks ago it was very slippery whether this side or that side was going to get most of it and it was all about the same, but it was very ugly colleagues and colleagues, regardless of which side they came from, now the shoemen are hitting each other and attacking those who chose one side. Well, that's their right. What if they chose the other side? Then it would be different again, and all together the suffering of the Croatian people. I have advocated being spoken here, because this is Parliament, this is the highest body, the representative body of our people. He can't do any more than this. There's only God above him. And what we need to learn, which is that the credibility of the Parliament and of our MPs is exactly what we're talking about. That's why I'd like to see Mr. Prime Minister if that interaction of your speech to us was much bigger today, because that would be much better. You don't keep your mouth shut because you want to keep quiet. You are probably embarrassed to hear that we are here explaining the history of the Croatian people, explaining what the anti-fascist warfare or the fluids of our country was at some time whether it was this or that state creation, and all this was about the history of the Croatian people. People without history have no future. If we're going to live for the past it won't be good for us, we have to live for tomorrow. I believe that this program of yours, your desire to make the social standard of the Croatian people, employment of young people, optimism and will to return love to the Homeland in a way that everyone who finishes school has a job in this country. It is the task of the future Croatian government. There are people on this side who have contributed to the former government in some good moves. We had Mr. Lalovec and the Department of Justice and some good people who had good suggestions. It doesn't matter that they were left-handed and I'm not ashamed to say it at all. As you will have good men who will have good moves and lead their resors, and I cannot speak of those I do not know. And I'm giving everyone a chance to show if he's capable, whether he's professional in taking responsibility and working for his country. That's our job. If we're gonna talk about going after the MPs tomorrow, we're becoming scum, we're becoming people who work here for some big money while the rest of us have nothing to do, they have nothing to live on. And we're hitting it one way or another, we're hitting on ourselves and on the dignity of our Parliament, our country, and that's not good. It doesn't matter how much these wages will be, it's important that our people and our young people have the will to live in this country. That's why we've given you confidence, because it's probably been expected otherwise from us. We were part of the negotiations, we weren't looking for anything, we were waiting for you to come to the Croatian Parliament. This is where we can give you support and we in the party decided together on the highest body of the party and we representatives that we will give you as the prime minister of the Croatian Government support for what you will do for our country. And it's fair to us, it's honest with us, and we didn't ask you for anything. We haven't even had coffee with you, we haven't even met, but we believe in your good intentions. We believe that tomorrow, when this is over, you will know how to lead this country and you will know how to move. I call you once again to that end and that lost hope of ours in Slavonia and Baranja. We've had many prime ministers and many governments. They resent you for not speaking fluent Croatian, which is not strange, given where you worked, what business environment you lived in. But there were many Croatian prime ministers who were fluent in our Croatian language and were drilling to love their homeland and did nothing. And that's what the Croatian people can't wait for anymore. There isn't a hundred days, Mr. Prime Minister, we, you and your team who have chosen to leave immediately tomorrow for the sake of our country. And the HDSSB will be a constructive associate as much as you demonstrate your will towards what you do, according to our end, towards our wrong people. And we are here to fix, correct those things that are wrong, because the able opposition guarantees a capable Croatian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u768	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He is the first to be respected representative of Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u769	Thank you very much, President. Fellow Salapic, you have said a few things and repeated several times how Slavonia is where she is and we all agree that Slavonia is at the bottom when it comes to the development of Croatia. In the context of that, you said we should look into the future, not the past. But yet I must remind you, the responsibility for where Slavonia is now is not just for the government that is coming, for the former government and for all past governments. It is also up to us citizens who have chosen to represent this people here in the Parliament. But there's also a lot on local self-government. So I'll tell you in the context of this view in Europe, looking into the future, money from the EU and withdrawing funds from local self-government, look at the tables. It is commendable, let's say, to fellow Buric, for his commendation. What he's doing in Beliss and how he's communicating with the former government, so I guess he's also with the future one for commendation. But look at my city, look at Djakovo, none of the EU funds. It's embarrassing! And we can't just ask for the responsibility of Zagreb, it's also about the responsibilities of Osijek and other cities in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u770	The honourable representative Salapic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u771	Comrade Tomic, these are our common challenges. I can only tell you what I know, which is that the Osijek-Baranja County and our regional development agency have withdrawn the most funds from EU funds and is one of the most successful agencies in the country. The HDSSB is holding power in one county of five and we're trying. That's why I was saying, I wanted to be affirmative in today's day because this day should be a little more solemn day for the Croatian people because we've waited a long time. No matter how it's over, I hope it ends well, better for our people, we've waited a long time, there's no time for negativeist debates because it goes on to everyone, not just to us sitting here, but to the people who are watching us, there's a lot of people who are following this, and a lot of people expect more from us. It's not a matter of sitting in a constituency bench and grinning at someone's statements and demeaning someone with a different opinion. If we don't respect a different opinion, I don't expect any of my colleagues at all, and I've known some of you for a long time that we have the same opinion. Our same opinion is one-of-a-kind. So we think differently. I agree, we need to reform local administration and self-government. The talks announced a reform of decentralisation of Croatia, the issue of survival of such a territorial structure, the number of counties, municipalities, cities. It's one of our long-term tasks because it's an administration that swallows state money. There's no anger, there's no anger, I might be talking about some parts that apply to our end, never mind. If this is a common interest, it must be a common interest. This program that's ahead of us is four years old. I think that we cut down a year by year that our citizens know what these painful cuts are that will already in the first year be felt on everyone and start from this composition here to those on other public systems and so forth. There's no more invulnerable. If we're going to save the land, we're taking the burden equally. That should be our common goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u772	The next replica is that of the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u773	I have to admit I didn't get it, so explain it to me. Are you the opposition that supports the government or the government's supporters in the opposition? Because if you did need to patent you, you're the perfect invention. It would be some kind of enemy friend, an ally opponent, a peaceful bully like that. We've heard here what Mrs. Gordane's price is for Rusak, 10 grand a month for her and 10 grand for her assistant. When are we gonna find out your price?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u774	The honourable representative Josip Salapic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u775	I didn't understand the last part of your presentation, Reverend Trazic, but I'm sure it wasn't a good thing. So then I'm going to answer, and I think you need to be honest with yourself first and to me, you don't have to be. I've always appreciated your debates that were interesting and you've always had the wit in your presentations, but this isn't funny at all what you said. So ask Mrs. Rusak personally what she asked for, if she asked. You can't ask me that if you've been answering me for my exposure. You were the vice president of the Croatian Parliament and you need a Rules of Procedure that you held in your hand for four years to know by heart. Obviously, you weren't in the business of the Rules of Procedure, you were in the business of politicizing and saying things that don't stand. Therefore, the HDSSB did not participate in any talks with anyone and half of the proposed candidates for ministers we do not know. We believe we'll get to know them in their work. Mr. Prime Minister, specifically to him, we have given support because we believe Croatia deserves a second chance. Also in 2011, the HDSSB was not against your government, it was abstentioned from courtesy. But at this point in Croatia, we don't have time to be restrained because we've waited a long time. And that's the only truth. Therefore, the HDSSB is an opposition that is constructively and honestly giving the Croatian prime minister an opportunity to try to save the country from the situation we are in. If I were him twice I'd think about coming here like this, I'd think twice about what's waiting for me. But I'm sure he's well-intentioned, so if a man comes before us with good intentions, then we give him well-intentioned support without a fig in his pocket. So, frankly, true to the Croatian public, to the Croatian people and to all of you who are sitting here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u776	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of the distinguished representative Maria Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u777	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected prime minister, candidates for ministers and ministers. Here is the representative who has been elected several times to this esteemed House based on this experience, as well as the experience of monitoring as a representative of the governments of Ivo Sanader and Jadranka Kosor and Zoran Milanović, as well as the previous experience of working in politics at local levels, I have several findings and, of course, several questions about the composition of your Government, Mr. Oreshković, as well as about its functioning and activities that you will be carrying out. Some of the candidates and candidates have biographies that suggest they are rightly run to these honorable places. But I must say that some of the statements that we follow in the media and are given by candidates for ministers do not really instill confidence but point to a return to some old times and topics that we all wanted not to return to. What's worse is that we don't know your program or today we've had a chance to see a list of your wishes but not the most important thing about how you want to make it happen. Even less, we know your views on some of the issues that are very important for the development of society because you either won't or don't know how to answer them. That's why I'm asking you specifically, Mr. Oreshkovic, and I'm asking you for your answers. The government of Zoran Milanovic has reduced the share of unemployment through a youth programme and has ensured that a good share of young people remain to work with the employer. What is your position on what will you do to reduce unemployed young people? The government of Zoran Milanovic has proposed a solution to the problem for citizens who have credit in Swiss francs, it has met with great public approval and in charge of the citizens, but also certain bank resistances. Since you are thrilled that the banks have welcomed you as a mandater, and since the banks are also very pleased with your appointment, I wonder if you will continue with this program or will you go to the bank's hands? In addition, on a television show yesterday we heard a view, the different attitude of the MOST representative said other solutions to the problem would be sought, the HDZ president said he agrees and should not be changed. What's your position, though, yours should be the last? You're saying that state property needs to be put into operation, which is basically a good idea, but do you have any concrete plan, or is that just one principle idea? Same question for industrialization. Of course you should, but say at least five sentences of how, since otherwise it remains a pale and inconclusive impression, that is, a list of beautiful desires without measures. You are Mr. Oreshkovic's unmistakably financial expert, which is a good circumstance for prime minister's duty, but it certainly isn't enough and it doesn't really encourage us. So we're interested in your answers, your attitudes because we haven't heard from them, and it's not about finance, it's about the development of society. Please provide specific answers. What's your position on the abortion? Should we obey the law and set up plates on Cyrillic at school? Do you really advocate a health reform on a Canadian model that divides people from the constitution to the rich and the poor? What do you think of the migrant crisis which was well managed by the government and Minister Ranko Ostojic in our country? Should we really close, Croatia close the borders as some of your colleagues suggest? Should I introduce a real estate tax? Do you agree with your candidate's statement to the minister that antifascism is floscule and that it is not in the Constitution? The government of Zoran Milanovic and the honorary defender and Minister Predrag Matic has introduced a registry of defenders that has proved to be a good move, do you really think that Mr Oreshkovic should be introduced in the register of traitors, as your candidate for minister suggests? Now, I'd like to hear these answers that are of interest to the public and besides that you know your finances very well, these are the things that require difficult political decisions, which you personally have no experience for because you've never dealt with politics before? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u778	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u779	Mr. President, I would take this opportunity and once again express an open and public appeal to Mr. Oreshkovic, above all, not to implement what is presented today in the key directions of the reform government, which is to stop the ongoing process of the current curricula reform, the revision of the strategy and the correction of the gaps based on a detailed analysis with the participation of all scientific disciplines, particularly... areas and stakeholders. I feel the obligation to well-intentioned and highly constructively warn what will happen if you insist on implementing these and these guidelines. First of all, what I think you need to know is that the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology is a document which is the basis of adopted operational programmes, which is the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion available to us for the use of the ERDF fund, which is an effective human potential for the use of the ESF and the resources available to us from 2014 to 2020. A key part of the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology or one that has somehow gone into the most remote phase at the very end is at the door of the public debate a complete curricular reform. It is this key part of the strategy of education, science and technology that is planned to be revised that you simply want to stop. What you need to know is that by abolishing this reform, it would block all the funds from both operational programmes, because the European Commission has accepted the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology as a strategic basis for project building, i.e. it is in some way our... condition. In this case, the Republic of Croatia will not be able to withdraw planned funds for development or education or science. The strategy is in this Croatian Parliament, I find it more illogical to propose this programme, adopted so I will not say unanimously but without going against it. We can say there was a consensus about that document. As far as I know, and I remember it well, HDZ was restrained, but also on committees, home working bodies and in this Croatian Assembly, the reason for the abstention which was then highlighted was more doubtful about the financial possibility of supporting the strategy itself which later proved to be actually a reason for doubt, but not the value of the document itself. What I'm still trying to say is here's one message from a number of messages I received today, and the following is that one of the teachers from Chabra who came to Zagreb with her car to find out today that the reform is stopping and stopping. It is only one person out of 450 people who spend months investing their time, finances, energy, willless financial rewards to contribute to the development of Croatian society and this one important project. And what to tell that teacher and those 450 practitioners, the people of the system who actually guaranteed us, were a guarantee of the implementation of that strategy. That is why it has distanced itself from politics, and it has actually been put into the hands of those who know best how to implement this reform. What do we tell them? Thank you and good-bye. And the question remains why, why is this project stopping? If there was no resistance in the Croatian Parliament, if supported by key social partners, he has the support of the union and has both a strategy and a full curricular reform, he has the support of both employers and Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and Pantovčkak and MOST. So spokeswoman, I have already said this today on one occasion, so on January 4, clearly, decided to support the entire curricula reform. I simply don't understand what happened and why such a proposal, suicide. This is a suicide proposal. I do not know how you will explain to the Croatian public that we are losing perspective and everything that has been put into our disposal for the withdrawal of European funds because unfortunately we know that in the Croatian budget we do not have the funds but we have made sure that we simply rely on the EU funds and invest them in our education system and society as a whole. I only hope that you are aware that by slowing down and stopping the realisation of the Strategy for Education of Science and Technology, as I have already said, you are stopping a large part that has already finished the project before the public debate, you should experimentally enter schools in September this year. Are you aware that, in fact, by stopping the implementation of the strategy, whose key point is the curricula, that it will stop making standards of qualifications and interests for teachers and directors? I want you to be aware that this will also stop the professionalization of the directorial profession and thus allow local sheriffs and politicians to name and replace the directors. And that is then in your coalition with one of the key guidelines that says to eliminate the strong influence of political structures in education and science. How? By stopping a strategy where, at a more advanced stage, we actually have projects to professionalise the principal's calls, invites the teacher and you will thus prevent political influence. Come on. No, that will cement the political influence on those people who carry schools or manage them. By stopping or giving up the strategy, you will also stop another significant part of the strategy that is already in the developed phase, which is a system of quality assurance where it works at two levels. On the one hand, through the development of a regional self-valuation network of schools whose institution is an Agency for Education and on the other hand the development of a quality assurance system through external evaluation of schools where it is the holder of the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education. And I'm done. It is also suggested here that agencies, agencies will be abolished. To go as a school office. However, at the moment when Croatia had in the past the Institute of Education there were only some, I will call the core agencies that were its component, they are the Education and Education Agency and then the Professional Education Agency. And after that, she joined the Agency for Adult Education. However, I urge that it be well thought out whether it makes sense when you say the agencies, then I think about the Agency for Mobility and the European Union Programme, the Agency for Science and Higher Education and the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and CARNet, which are also institutions that care about some important parts of this segment of education that should seriously consider the importance of abolishing those agencies. To increase efficiency but the question is how would the European Union react to such a single mouse mass where under some ego savings or I don't know how to put it all under the same roof. I think there's a difference between agencies and agencies and there's one professional way to approach it. I don't know who set this up, I hope someone screwed this up, that this really isn't a serious proposal program, I really hope. I hope it's not the final version of this program. And once again, I appeal, don't stop something that is clearly a consensus in society not only among political actors but also between parents and children and the general public because there are no families that are not concerned with the education system. This reform is something that's good. This September reform should already be introduced experimentally to teach for life and not to bug the factography in mind, that teachers and teachers work differently with them, to devote more to them, to guide them rather than to be tutors, to have children go with pleasure to school, to follow them differently, to value and evaluate them. It's all up to you, I want a lot of success with all those ministers and even more of the ministers I'm sorry they're gone in government in future work, it won't be easy for you. Especially this is what I want from my fellow future minister of science, education and sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u780	Thank you very much. You've missed a lot of time. Obviously we'll stay long enough. [[I'm sorry.]] There's also this multiple-replication exhibit. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Ilcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u781	I'm just going to say a little bit about the subject and these curricula reforms could really be discussed, and today it's not a topic. But I can't deny these claims of yours about 200 experts, 450 experts. So these are all the experts that you politicians have chosen. You chose them very deliberately. It's not just about me right now, it's about a lot of experts who've been reporting for the competition that you haven't received. You only took people and only one political orientation. And now that the curricula is in question, it's seen what's going on and of course the situation is changing. That's all I'm talking about right now. So don't just talk about experts. These experts are chosen from politics and only from one policy and only one expert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u782	The distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u783	Comrade Ladislava, I'm surprised to you that the subject of education today is not a subject. Then what's the topic today? So do you have any, did you even read the proposal for the program and the guidelines for which you intend to vote? That's the darkness. The topic is to vote the trust of the new members and members of the government, but also some kind of programme, I guess. Because it's the program that's the key, which these people with greater or less success, I hope to have a bigger time. And your comment on the other hand that in these 450 people that are not experts, I can only tell you the following. In the name of those 450 people you say are politically elected, I can only tell you the shame you can be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u784	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u785	I don't want to talk about the profession, because I'm not from education. But I only know from where I come from that children do not have free textbooks in elementary school, and in other larger, richer environments such as Zagreb have free textbooks. So we don't have an organized transport. There was also the Social Democratic Party in power and the Patriot coalition, i.e. HDZ. In these areas, children have no means of transport. So they don't have a secure transport because they're poor municipalities. So they're much more important components. I'm not going to go into this professionally or unprofessionally, that during your time and your authority every child has the same right to have for education. I'm telling you this mainly for rural areas such as my Sinj, the Cetina region, the Mountain Kotar, Lika, Slavonia. You can see that every day, the kids are hungry. Somewhere they have a secure breakfast, marendu, i.e. They've got somewhere. So the selection for children is the worst we could do, and that section should be discussed, and of course include everything that needs to be included and what the strategy knows. Therefore, the prime minister, the minister of education in the budget towards children, must not be the selectivity of the one from Sinj, was from Zagreb. Primary school is a school that is mandatory. Therefore, there should be free textbooks. That's more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u786	The honourable voter's representative will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u787	Thanks, buddy Bull. I agree with you. I support and I'm the first person I want to support and live in a society that gives equal chances to everyone. And that's why I'm happy that for a long time I could be part of the team, the operational part of the team at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, in the government that made small but significant steps to correct the differences in society and to ensure, however, in the education system, similar, if not equal chances for everyone. So I'll just remind you that over the past four years, it means for every kid who attends high school co-financed by the state, 75% of the local transportation. For children of primary school it is regulated by law and it is a obligation, the obligation of the state 75% for each child who transports 75% co-financed by the map. In some units of local or regional self-government, and there are such cities, municipalities, somewhere and counties have taken over the rest of co-financing or part of it. In this way, both facilitating families, means that the cost of education is as painless as possible. The government couldn't cover everything. On the other hand, as far as meals in schools are concerned, it's very clearly regulated by law, now that I don't have much longer. I'll just tell you that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, about two years ago, launched a project for children, so the diet should be organised in all primary schools. Unfortunately, not all primary schools have conditions for cooking. Where it's organized, because they don't have all the kids' money to co-finance food, but there's the state. So those kids who didn't have the funds provided a free meal. State-level textbooks have the right to free textbooks with special categories of socially endangered defenders, defenders and members of the Roma national minority And I hope this government can expand that diapazone. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u788	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u789	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is a word that has often been used in the Croatian media area by indications lately. So there are indications that the reforms of colleagues you are talking about will not be hitchhike. In fact, it seems, and I'm particularly glad that our discussions helped to detect a mistake. The MOST reports that they allegedly released the wrong document, so at least they transferred the media, that they published the wrong document on the parliament's pages. So again, I'm glad if it's true that they discovered this mistake and that the reforms in which 450 people invested their time and knowledge move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u790	Thank you very much. You haven't answered. Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u791	Dear Mr. President, thank you. In every democratic country, in the democratic parliament, the day the government of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament are installed has this tradition of the installation of the bank and the banking council in one special solemn way. This needs to be achieved, it needs political culture, it needs a lot of conciliant but also quality preparation to come before the Croatian Parliament with good proposals that will be as resilient as possible. It is clear that the Prime Minister and the government are proposing the ruling majority. So those who have put together a majority block and who have defined the policy they want to implement. The opposition's task is that everything that was brought to her table is turned 50 times not out of it turned out to be a mistake and not pointed to a failure not out of wickedness, not out of malice, but out of error. We have a situation of one that is quite strange and in many ways we have tried this model for the first time that the coalition, the Patriot coalition and the MOST create some form of alliance for which they deny in advance that it is called the coalition. I don't know why they're afraid of those words like the devil of incense because there's no reason for that. They call it cooperation. Internationalism for cooperation is a cooperative. So the Patriot coalition and the MOST are co-operatives on this project. But we still don't know if Mr. Oreshkovic is the project's main engineer and who's the lead contractor. I was hoping that the programming document that we have received concisely, it really does not have 120 pages as it has been announced these days that there is some programming document, will explicitly count policies, basic goals but also basic tools by which this government will differ from the previous ones in an effort to achieve what the previous ones did not know or could or simply did not have such circumstances that such things could be realized. This document better not have been put on the table. He's unfortunately written a hill of snot. I'm sure most candidates for ministers haven't seen what's inside. I've even asked some of them, and I've made sure of that. The mandate today said in his presentation, showing in the presentation an almost empty sheet that each minister would have to enter fast results, medium and long-term goals, definition of success and key indicators. So, it's homework for you candidates tomorrow, and that task should have already been done, that is, the prime minister should have written you that assignment and shared and said this is a government policy that I am responsible for in the name of the Co-operation of the Patriot Coalition and the Most, and you are obliged to turn that policy into reality. This is how we know 20 of you don't even know what to do. Most of the public precisely because of you, Mr. Oreshkovic, I think I have pointed out correctly, in your area says Oreshkovic, not Oreshkovic, right, there is one big loan to you. First of all, because we don't know you. What we know about you isn't bad, but it's definitely not enough. Since you have already engaged in such an important business, be aware that the position of Croatian Prime Minister is the most important duty in the Republic of Croatia. It carries a complete burden, all the responsibility of the state-level executive, it carries with it the full burden of responsibility for the functioning of the entire public sector and carries with it the highest level of political responsibility. Don't let the cooperatives of you create an on-call contractor on that part of the construction site called the economy and finance without you taking political views because it will come back to you as a boomerang. You will answer for this government tomorrow. You will be responsible for every minister and minister. And if it is already so that we know that many of them in their lives when they weren't in politics, few of them are, had certain attitudes that are most resilient, ask them nicely to leave them at home as Mr. Karamarko would say last month in the 5th month when we come to power, everyone will be able to think whatever they want but at home. So let the ministers know that they are publicly representing the government policy that you will be leading and that they represent these three objectives that you have defined, and everything else to release on the side of their own private preferences. Furthermore, most of the public sees you as a man who grew up in a free democratic world so ipso facto thinks you're a liberal, smooth man who certainly doesn't share some dubious, radical or similar ideas. We don't know that. As colleagues have said, we do not know what your views are on a whole series of important issues. It's also important to you when you go to coffee with someone, when you hang out with someone, when you give someone your destiny in your hands, and we have to trust our destiny as a state to the government that you're going to lead. I personally think that you share the government's valuable position that you presented today and the people sitting in it because I don't believe you'd agree to be on top of that team if you didn't share it. Today you listened to the whole day of the debate that at least talked about the achievement of the three goals you defined in your presentation. You've heard what's being discussed. So you're perfectly clear that if it wasn't before Croatian society is a deeply divided society, a low-level society of political culture, you're not a level of tolerance. What is happening in Parliament is only the bright side of that truth. Do everything you can as prime minister, do everything you can as a man, head of executive, as nominally the first person of the operation not to encourage these divisions, to promote tolerance, to make such an atmosphere in society that what you want to achieve in these three goals is indeed achieved. If you allow people on your team to deepen these differences, argue and distract the public on such topics, you will fail. I know that by nature things will happen to you until you get seriously involved with some problems you need a certain time out and that you will need to talk about everything just not what your main goals are because you need time. But don't go too far. You're taking the biggest responsibility for stabilising the social relations in your name, taking on a huge burden, I don't want to make it difficult for you. And we in opposition will try to help you not to make it difficult, but you must give us a good will, you must give it before this House at least in the final word state speech that will convince the Croatian public that it makes sense that, for you to advocate, it makes sense for everyone who has an idea, creation, will, capacity to get involved in this story, to follow you, to trust you. And you have to convince the public that you're gonna be the boss of these people, not you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u792	Thank you, Mr. Honorable Representative Beus. Next is Kristina Ikic-Baniček.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u793	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, fellow MPs. After 11 hours of frenzy, convincing all of us that this is about the government of experts, I'm afraid I'm not convinced, I'm afraid the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not convinced either. But let's go back to the beginnings. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia clearly states: "After the Government has received the trust of the Croatian Parliament, the Prime Minister and the members of the Government before the Croatian Parliament give a solemn oath which reads: I swear that I will be consciously and honorably acting, respecting the Constitution, laws and legal order, and upholding all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Now, for some ordinary formal act which is therefore prescribed by law as a condition for the conduct of this honorable duty and the responsibility of a member of the Croatian government, it is for me that a representative in the Croatian Parliament who has also recently sworn to the citizens still represents something more. I want to believe that you, too, are representatives of other colleagues and colleagues when you swore your entire personal integrity and career in making an oath in this home. And now we're getting into trouble. The oath, which includes a guarantee of personal honor and conscience today, will be spoken before us by a person who is a witness to a liar, a person who has even reduced his own signature to a joke. I'm sorry about the dictionary. A person who has lied to the Croatian public, lied to the citizens, lied to the voters who chose him, and ultimately to all those involved in the negotiations. How can a liar even hold his word? How will someone who lies and cheats in parallel believe that they will obey the Constitution, the laws, and what does the oath of the legal order say? Well, he doesn't even respect his signature without even talking about personal conscience and honor. All right, I admit the form will be satisfied, but I believe that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, deeply I believe they deserve much more because as some of them have repeated many times today we haven't received the state it's bloody earned by the lives and wounds of our citizens so in the extreme line and the lives and wounds of my fellow citizens from the City of Sisak. And I don't think there's any worse mocking these people than calling on their consciences and honors to those who don't have that honor and conscience. It would be much more elegant, therefore, that this must not be co-operation and coalition, the colleague of the operation said that this set of HDZ and MOST amended the Law on Government which would release the obligation of oath to God Petrov and appointed him as a member of the Government without such an oath because I believe that this high house does not deserve another mockery of the truth from that man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u794	Thank you, Your Honor. It's time for the Honorable Representative Drago Prgomett.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u795	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll seem to be in the position of Clint Eastwood, who, in his time, spoke of an empty chair when he spoke to Obama, but I think you'll be able to pass on at least part of what I wanted to say to the prime minister today, and obviously I'm not going to make it or at least I won't be able to hear it. So, the debate today has shown what we are more or less aware of and perhaps sometimes we want to admit how divided Croatia is to us, and it should be the opposite. When the state is in a difficult situation, when people live, then talking, co-operation and compromise is a solution to such frustrated situations and no conflict at all. In this same Croatia, it is only the result, unfortunately, of less and less rational policy. And our politicians all, because I belong in that category ourselves, obviously we forget that politics is a conflict of conflicted visions, not a struggle of self-proclaimed evil and good that everyone defines according to their own judgment. And it's not bad that everything that's been here today has heard the mandate because it has to be aware of what politics is and what kind of political environment they're going to be working on and I'm going to do something about it later. So, Mr. Prime Minister, what connects you today or what connects him to all current mandates is indeed an expression of sincere will and good intentions to make changes in Croatia. And by that you are no different from the other previous prime ministers, the elected prime ministers. Unfortunately, though, most of them did not leave behind the changes we had been waiting for, so ultimately, our entire political history has always been about the mere change of figures and the mere change of individual political parties who acted in power. I mentioned the word "change" and it went sharply, promising, insisting on major reforms and changes, I know it well because I was part of the political platform MOST until I fell and ended up on HRID, someone would say that I had ducked, others would say that I was saved. Of course I belong to this second category of people. Many promises were made, however, but the negotiators apparently lost all the strong texts and reform changes they wanted to insist on, so in this intense search for meaningful solutions as someone said they were wandering around as Czech tourists in Biokovo. You've given up the local administration reform. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, Croatia is too small a country for this big a country. The current system of local administration is ineffective, you will not withdraw funds from the European Union, from the European funds as you planned, such a system is too massive, unfortunately prone to corruption and what is most difficult in terms of implementing good ideas because most of the places will often be occupied by people thanks to their own political definition or belonging to one of the political parties. On the other hand, you have announced a picture of certain solutions from Canada. Copy-paste is very popular in Croatia, very lucrative, but unfortunately the reviews sometimes do not have a good effect especially if you want to repaint a complete system, you can only reflect it if you have a good political, healthy political situation. For example, when you were already ready to copy some of the good solutions that you copied the territorial structure of Canada that has only 10 provinces and you know how many times Canada is bigger than Croatia. People who supported the mandate, different political parties insisted on changes to a particular system of values they themselves called conservative, conservative, and liberalism, as social democracy, legitimate but these values I had had the opportunity to hear during the election campaign I would call retro traditional, the intention to achieve the values and achieve the degree of human freedoms and the rights of reduction. Some of these ideas are pure reminiscing of the past. On the one hand, the mandate calls for unity, fully justified for broad support and, on the other hand, those who support, unfortunately, deepen divisions and, on the other hand, encounter fertile soil. Mr. Prime Minister, you have rightly emphasized the economy. But let us not all be distracted with the mind without serious changes in the way the political system works in Croatia, not one of your reforms will succeed. And that means without strengthening democracy, without strengthening, without the openness of political parties, political institutions, state institutions, because so far they were the biggest obstacles, precisely their incarceration, not democracy, lack of competence and competences were an obstacle to economic development. Well, today we're all aware of that we have a well-developed partner capitalism and an agreed economy. I know as a man who comes from business he'll say, not yet the economy is the most important. But, Mr. Prime Minister, you will become the strongest political person in Croatia. It is politics that determines the future because good politics will do good for the community and the bad can only give some a good life but also for a short time. I'm particularly sorry you didn't point out that you came from an orderly country that has built a high standard of democracy. And you know very well that today's most developed countries are the ones with the highest degree of democracy and acceptance of the standard of living. I expected clearer messages that you wanted to make. You haven't taken advantage of the opportunity and sent a message that you're really willing to make difficult decisions. You have well noticed, our economy is extremely weak, it is weak as a result of ignorance, corruption, it is weak as a result of the greed and irresponsibility of individuals but is also the result of the failure of all of us, not just individuals of all of us to make difficult decisions in time and prepare the country for a better future. And I expected that from you. And you've left me a lot of misunderstandings besides that, enough so I can't support you tonight. But if you show courage, raise your head where your associates, especially politically, do not follow, do not lift, do not have the courage to support you. If you are willing to change what seems impossible to change, we will support you. Every proposal that is on the trail of what I have advocated in the election campaign, a party that I run, every proposal that is on the trail of the principle that we represent, and I repeat, we will fight for the rights of human freedoms achieved, respect for individual freedoms, media freedoms. We will certainly not allow political coverage and entry into writing and correcting textbooks. So you can count on us in these situations. You are a Croatian government like all governments before you. This is the Croatian Parliament and no matter how much conflict you hear today, no matter how much difference I still deeply believe is much more what brings us together than what separates us. We are one people, we are citizens of one country, and I deeply believe that together we celebrate our victories and grieve in our defeats. As the people as the American president put it, we fall together and rise together. That's why, regardless of my position, I want you and your team to succeed regardless of our differences as a patriot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u796	Replica's esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u797	Dear colleague Prgomet, I'm glad you invited us to the community that invites you to the bridge you were in. Now, if it's luck or an accident that you've stumbled on HRID to judge it yourself, you'll judge it by yourself and the people. However, we all who are at MOST have come from a local level, and you have already been a parliamentary representative during Eve Sanader if you must correct me that it is incorrect. So, everything we've been saying about regional self-government and local self-government, we have a wonderful minister on reforms. Tim Oreshkovic has, so on this point we will support her in reforms. Everything you've represented, and so have we. And I wish you good luck with HRIDs, and I hope you will support these reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u798	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u799	Thank you, Chairman. Regardless of the recently published information in the media he spoke about and respected colleague Tomic, I will stick to what we have officially received on benches, material, preparation for this session point and these are the key guidelines of the reform government. I quote: "It seems to me in principle that it will be difficult to find someone who will be against this strategy. Our system and education and science have been created for not decades, but I dare say for centuries and certainly a good part of it is good, but some things need to be improved, some things need to be changed." An academic quote from the 47th session of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture in the Croatian Assembly on 9 July 2014. And it needs to be changed. Why should I change? Because Croatian schooling in a material way lags behind European. Because it is not the focus of the education and education system, and especially not as the concept of life and work, lifelong learning, or education. Because 62,000 people who have never been to primary school live in Croatia, 120,000 people who have never completed primary school and 280,000 people who have completed primary school alone. Because with Turkey, students in Croatia spend the shortest time in the mandatory education system throughout Europe. Because Croatian 15-year-olds found themselves in 40 places in mathematical literacy, 34 places in natural science and 35 by reading literacy on the scales of students from 65 countries in the world. And they should, I quote, "improve economic and social opportunities in Croatia and raise the standard of living for citizens." Complete quote of the aim of Croatia's transformation strategy in the Croatian Parliament on 22 January 2016. The curricula reform followed the strategy began to change the content of learning, textbooks, methods, models of permanent teacher education, plans and programmes as well as status of education, status of teachers and teachers, educators and teachers, teachers and teachers, professors and professors, directors and principals. Their place in the present Croatian reality to date. I quote: "Stop starting the process of current curriculative reform, reviewing the strategy and correcting the gaps based on a detailed analysis with the participation of all scientific disciplines especially the wall of the area and stakeholders." Complete quote of the key guidelines of the reform government, Croatian Parliament 22 January 2016. It is important to establish a series of comprehensive curricula reforms based on the strategy of education, science and technology, and the strategy based on the guidelines made by the HAZU. All religious communities and all minorities participated in the reform. Over a year, about 800 people, 430 members of expert working groups, 100 people as support, 220 consultants participated in the full curricula reform. ... It's highly represented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They fully cover their fields and objects. Just briefly how it went. In December 2014 a public call for the leaders and members of the expert working group was appointed as Head of Dr.sc in January 2015. Boris Jokic and 6 members of the expert task force. On February 2015, an expert working group started working, on February 2015, a network site www.kurikulum.hr February 2015 began working on creating a framework for national curricula. A unit for professional and administrative support was established in March 2015. Public calls for members of 6 working groups were issued in April 2015. 62 members of expert working groups were elected in May 2015. May until August 2015, the SRS started working. In May 2015 a network for support and professional training of educational and educational workers was held for day-long expert meetings for the heads of the county and inter-zupanian expert councils. Following these expert meetings, the leaders were to provide information to members of the expert councils on the basis of prepared working materials. Online questionnaires have collected information on a full curricula reform of 10,000 educational and educational workers. Public calls for the appointment of 45 expert working groups were published in May 2015. In July 2015, 283 persons were selected for expert working groups. By August 2015, information from educational and general public on the objectives and plans of full curricula reform to the Education Committee was presented in the Croatian Parliament, the Rectors' Assembly, the HGK, the HUP and many other bodies. Furthermore, more than 150 lectures were held at national and local meetings organised by the AZO and targeted groups of course. In August, methodological manuals for document making were developed. August 2015 initial meeting and start of work of expert working groups for students with difficulties and gifted students. September-December 2015 making a proposal for curriculative documents, January 2016 hiring consultants and completing the document. In short, the quote: "We for this financial year, so in 2015, have foreseen 12 million kunas for curricular reform. However, for the following year, for the period 2016-2020, we have provided around 130m euros from European funds for the implementation of this curricular reform. Which means that these funds will, of course, be spent to the greatest extent on teacher education and content making.", finished quote by Vedran Mornar of Technical Minister at the Committee on Education, Science and Culture in the Croatian Parliament in September 2015. I will repeat once again the key direction of your future government, your future Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. Stop running the process of current curricular reform. I will explain, as a teacher with a spelling definition in Croatian, the word stop means who or what to prevent in the acoustics, interrupt the sequence of actions and activities. On behalf of all students and students, teachers and teachers, parents and other well-intentioned citizens and citizens of Croatia, will you really stop, prevent and break the full curricula reform? At the end of all my former and future students, we should have brought out all together to become and remain fully capable of achieving our own potentials. People trained to continue education, work and lifelong learning. People whose relationship with others rests on respecting the well-being of others, persons who actively and responsibly participate in the community, people who are healthy and living healthy lives. We failed, forgive us, and especially forgive them because they obviously don't know what they're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u800	Thank you. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u801	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable MPs. I've been patiently listening to questions and comments all day, and it doesn't really surprise me because I've been expecting something like that, looking back at the chronology of the last few months. In recent months, the Croatian public has been surprised to see developments on the political scene. But the Parliament was established, and the government will also be established. And it will soon fall into another plan. Here are the troubled statements of some ministers, future ministers. The average Croatian citizen, and we have already had the opportunity to hear this in previous discussions, is probably more interested in some other things than the worldview of future ministers. They're probably more interested in how and how much tax they're going to grow, how they're going to pay back the loan war, whether that war is going to grow, whether they're still going to have to walk from a counter to a document. They are generally interested in whether they will grow anything they want not to grow in economic and financial terms because the home budget is already too overworked. We are interested in all of us here especially me and I believe other representatives will the economy of the new government be in the service of society or will society be in the service of capital or government? I will not trouble the candidates for ministers, individual candidates, but it is evident that one of the largest Croatian companies has practically always recruited from its ranks the minister or assistant minister for a particular portfolio who can hardly be immune to his employer who will probably be returned after the term of office. Fellow MPs have already problemed and certain parts of the strategy presented here today called Croatia's Transformation Strategy, and this strategy should actually be the most important subject of the debate today. Looking at this strategy, I've noticed that some significant programs or should I say that famous word of reform are missing, out, I don't know why. I would like what was announced in the election campaign to be the most important thing in the end to be truly implemented by this government. From the key guidelines, I've singled out a section on public administration. Or there has already been a number of mentions of the reform of local self-government, but in previous discussions we have had the opportunity to hear that the guidelines indicate something that has already been carried out or implemented. And there are parts like that here. So there is a public administration development strategy from 2015 to 2020, and even a good document requires even a supplement, it just needs to be implemented so as not to leave a dead letter on paper. In today's strategy for the transformation of Croatia, you say you will enable an effective public sector. However, the public sector is also a reform of local self-government, and without reform of local self-government, it is hard for the public sector to be effective because the public sector is not just ministries, offices and agencies. And so I wonder where this reform of local self-government suddenly went in this presented programme? No one doubts the need to inform the administration, of course it is necessary for citizens to get more efficient services and services, faster and simpler and on this matter and the previous government has done something. You don't need to go ab this. If every government continued where the previous one stood, we would actually be in a far better position today. This would also include the success of the so-called reform of the Danish administration, hence the introduction of functional, pardoning the abolition of non-functional municipalities, the information of public services and services and the third budget reform. I have no doubt that it will continue with what is good and we will probably have online documents soon, but on the other hand it will remain all of those inefficient and over-compared municipalities with great costs. For example, the head of a municipality and there are many such municipalities in eastern Slavonia that barely provide any service to the citizens, the locals have monthly receipts of nine thousand kunas, which is more than the salary of a doctor of science who works in an institution that is burdened by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Not to mention the other benefits that the chief still makes. And there's still plenty of examples like that. In this sense, MOST independent lists announced this reform of local self-government during the pre-election period and called for experts, and experts have long concluded that certain municipalities are overnumbered, spend money from the budget, do not service citizens and that there is no justification for their existence. And now that reform is suddenly not mentioned anymore, I don't know why. I would love it if the next four years would be better than now, but the chronology of events in recent months doesn't give me the faith that there will be some big and significant changes or not to say that famous word of reform again, one of the most listened words in the last three months of the media. Which of these reforms will eventually be, given that walking is giving up on the most important things I really question. I hope he doesn't come down with cosmetic procedures. I hope that Croatian society will not take a step backwards in terms of civil freedoms and civil rights in any way over the next four years. Then I hope that this government will be socially sensitive and that the announced rise in Croatia's ratings will not actually be at the heart of Croatian citizens. I hope it won't be a new round of privatization of social property so that the state budget can be patched up anyway. Mr. Oreshkovic, you may have become more aware today than you were yesterday that you would need much more than the managerial experience and references that are great and that you possess to really spend what you presented today. This government has been announced as a reformal although one of the key reforms, and this is the reform of local self-government and other reforms that we have had the opportunity to hear here, have not been implemented, and, among other things, citizens have given a voice to a certain option precisely because of these reforms, then you will be responsible as Prime Minister at least for those voters, in that part of the voters who have chosen that reform option. A lot of questions have been raised here after the presentation that you have not answered so far, and I am joining the questions. And that's why I'm really asking you to answer the question at least that set of questions regarding your program that you presented. In particular, answer me the question of what will happen to the reform of local self-government because there are really no other objective reasons for not being implemented other than political ones. In the end, I would conclude, I see that I am running out of time, dear Mr. Oreshkovic, although it is clear to me that Mr. Oreshkovic, although it is clear to me and it is obvious that you have decided that you will not answer the questions of the representatives in part. I ask you, however, to change your mind and yet I appeal to you, at least to that set of questions from the MPs who are talking about today's programme, your strategy and your future government. As you can see, the non-response of a representative's questions in a particular section of the MPs is already causing a slight frustration. Answer at least the most important questions and thus show that you respect MPs because despite all circumstances, it is clear that the Government will be voted either at 3 a.m. or at 5 o'clock or at 7. And despite all the circumstances, I really wish you a lot of success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u802	Thank you, Your Honor. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u803	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic you have opened a very important topic but before that it is really a little bit here all day we ask, we ask questions, we ask answers, we do not get them, it is not correct for the Croatian Parliament or for us as representatives. But what you're undermining as a fact, and I have to do it again. So here is the candidate for prime minister, prime minister and candidate for minister of finance coming from large corporations and it is indeed the real question whether the government will follow with future moves the views or interest of capital or citizens. Why would I ask that? Well, here before, maybe it was yesterday or yesterday, I don't remember any more, Mr. Grmoja's representative said that the solution the former minister, now formerly, would be if the government, Finance Minister Mr. Lalovac and Prime Minister Milanovic were voted on in conflict with the banks for the settlement of the Swiss franc debtors. For such a solution, they fought first by freezing the exchange rate, later by converting it into the euro. However, Mr Grmoje said that this solution is not good and that such solutions will be changed. Look, these are serious things and I think it would be good if we heard these things here today because we actually hear from the media quite something, often the diametrically opposite attitudes, so it would be good, I say here now the prime minister is out again, it would be good to get answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u804	Thank you, Your Honor. The individual debate is next to be held by Honorary Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u805	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was thinking of joining the appeal of colleagues and colleagues to continue the curricula reform. I have to admit that I'm a little confused now we hear different statements, I've heard from my colleague Shucker say it's not like that, that the reform goes on. A colleague of Strenja-Linic also made a similar statement. I'm a little confused, I have to say, I wish we had a clear view of this, but this confirms only the thesis that we need to discuss in the Parliament. If this is really a mistake that's been subdued, where luck we've had time to clear this document for a few more hours and a few days, if it's necessary, maybe more mistakes that I hope it is. I've asked a lot of questions so far, and I've been meaning to ask a lot of questions, because so far, none of my colleagues and colleagues have received an answer, and I don't think there's any point in asking them anymore. We'll see how the government works, and according to that, we'll give the grades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u806	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to individual debates, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u807	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs. Obviously, support for reforms melts. I'm sorry that there are no mandates now, his presentation, I can't speak your presentation when I'm not looking at him, she's opened up a lot of famous topics that have been opened in previous meetings. So nothing's new. We have long established that our economy is not competitive, that we have no money to use European funds, that we must attract investment. The only thing new is that during the election program between your two coalitions, what was advocated by the MOST coalition is nothing respected. What they advocated is public administration reform, decentralisation reform, regionalization, the abolition of counties, and apparently more important to them than their programme. On the other hand, one part of the MOST specifically, Professor Lovrincevic pushed one thesis that when fiscal policy cannot solve the economy, at least it will try monetary policy. And apparently he didn't find an agreement because these colleagues he tried to tell did not understand. Perhaps if he had prepared the proposal better, he would have gone by even though he would have found a resistance, a great resistance in the Croatian People's Bank and the European Union and our lenders who do not care. Apparently, government support is melting, and I see a full mandate coming out, and there are no two vice-presidents of the future government, which is signifying. I'd like to open up some other questions, when they're gone, it's not interesting for me to talk about the economy. Your program that you wrote in no sentence, and knowing that you're a Dalmatian comrade vice president or Mr. Vice President, and we know each other from 40 years ago, so I said that, buddy, it doesn't matter, We have mutual friends. [[Intruder Ante Sanader: But we weren't friends.]] Okay, can I go on? [[But we weren't friends together.]] I don't find a single word of the island in the government program, let alone a sentence. We're an island country that has so that you don't miss I'll quote exactly, I'll quote exactly how many islands and islands and rocks we have. We have 698 islands, 389 islands and 179 reefs. 40 islands are inhabited. If we know that 3,500 years ago, it was discovered that people lived on Hvar, then we have to ask ourselves what our serious policy is, the demographic policy that the Patriot coalition and MOST stand for, and they don't mention the islands in their programme in a single word. I mean, that's absurd, not to say that we don't have electricity on some islands these days, not to mention water. I won't repeat what my colleagues said. But I'm going to say, let's say sports in the government's guidelines, and neither is the speaker's speech. I noticed that these two documents were not in collegiate, as if they were written, they didn't agree at all. In this programme, this sport has not been mentioned in a single sentence. I will remind you that in the previous session of the Parliament in the spring-summer session there were amendments and additions to the Law on Sports and that the law had passed, the law was amended with 81 votes for, 24 votes against and 3 abstentions. And for the sake of public interest, I'm going to say what are the main changes to that law that was passed last year. So, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sport Act with the final bill. According to him, convicted of riots in stadiums will no longer be able to be in the administrations of sports clubs and alliances, and the procedures of the public needs programme in sport have been uniformed, as well as the prescribed obligations of legal persons in the spectrum to publish a financial report on their websites once a year. I'm interested in whether your coalition or what you'll call an agreement agrees with the existing Sport Act and do you intend to change it? I know that you do not have a very large choice of measures and resources for these reforms, and it would be serious if the prime minister had said at least one of the measures he is going to implement. The central question is whether it is possible to conduct a quality policy without painful radical cuts in the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u808	Thank you to Honoring Representative Peric. It is up to the honourable representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u809	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to ask some questions, Prime Minister, but I'm going to lose my answer, so I'm just going to give some of my thoughts to this government. First of all, I'd be talking about maybe a little government program if he had one. There was this kind of desire to hitchhike reforms in education that fortunately would not happen if it were to trust the indications of the wrong document that was published. And of course there's an empty sheet of paper in this document that we got. Personally, he tells me the most about this government program. What else is there to add? Apparently Prnjavor express has not yet reached Zagreb. Who are the key levers of the new majority in the Parliament? The first group gathered around HDZ, and we must remind ourselves that HDZ is characterized by two major robberies by Croatia. One in the '90s when people were killed, and it's called conversion and privatisation. Several thousand companies were destroyed in the process. If it's not a war crime, tell me what it is. The second robbery took place at the time of Sanader and FIMI media, so the party ended up on the defendant's bench. Some of them peeled potatoes, and they're facts. Of course, it is not important to remind that it is a party that, when it is in opposition, invents headquarters, the government calls it an unnatural, clinking weapon, all with the aim of getting hold of the authorities to perhaps take some more. Fortunately for HDZ there is another group called MOST, a group of people responsible for bringing to power these first ones. Thus, their responsibility is the biggest when we again follow that Croatia becomes an ATM, and they brought them to power with a bunch of lies and deceptions and accusations without evidence. Of course, then the deal is a perfectly logical choice. Furthermore, it is important to mention one moment, precedent in the history of Croatian politics and that is cowardice. Karamarko showed this by running away from the pre-election campaign. Of course, he also showed it by running away from taking responsibility. That's why he pushed the gentleman out of Canada into the first place. The cowardice is not only unique to Mr. Karamark, but also to Mr. Petrov who had the chance to become Prime Minister but none of it. They probably both had to honor the ancient agreement and act as a desire for a non-party and professional prime minister. And in the end, I believe that this HDZ and MOST coalition is completely insignificant support of representatives of the Croatian Parliament. They have the support they need – primarily large capital and banks rich in effort, torture and attempt to survive Croatian citizens. They have the support of a church that the fat state feeds. They have the support of Viktor Orban of the best European wireman in the end, and not least have the support of the Duke Vukic who likes to push himself into Croatian issues. Because of all the above and all the above, I can't have my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u810	It's up to the distinguished representative, Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u811	Dear Vice President, Mr. Oreshkovic, colleagues and fellow MPs, future ministers and ministers, I welcome you all very much. Today, Mr. Oreshkovic presented Croatia's transformation strategy and told us to accept the challenges. What challenges to Mr. Oreshkovic when your program is not challenging at all, you have no program! We are a country of young democracy but we do not need you, Mr. Oreshkovic, your citizens of the Republic of Croatia have not been elected in the elections and I am surprised to you who have grown up and worked in a country of old democracy that you have had the authority to accept the post of prime minister of the Croatian government. After his term, Mr. Oreshkovic goes to the public elections, not Pantovac. I'm personally sorry that the President of the Republic didn't have the courage to call a new election when she saw what was going on. It is her responsibility to bring to power you who have no political legitimacy. I am personally proud of all the successes of all Croatian governments, I am proud of the successes and the Government of Zoran Milanovic, GDP growth, debt write-offs to the poorest citizens, fiscalisation, the war against banks and loans in Swiss led by Minister Lalovac. I wasn't proud when the Prime Minister of my government went to jail. You're talking about fundamental values, family, friendship, human relations. You want and enter the sphere of the intimate of a family. You are announcing amendments to the Life Partnership Act of the same sex, the abolition of women's rights to choose and decide on termination of pregnancy. Right and conservative. For me personally, that is very worrying. Because the government of Zoran Milanovic has just done a lot for human rights and civil society. Croatia and the government of Zoran Milanovic both showed the heart and unity towards refugees. From the ranks of ruling MPs today, we have heard that we are from the opposition playing a game. The play is these guidelines and I'm afraid the ministers will be dolls at the end. But what can we expect when by yesterday they didn't even know they were going to be ministers, and what could they have written too much? Stopping the current curricular reform, a reform that has first reached consensus in the Croatian public is not good. Your children, Mr. Oreshkovic, have been educated in one of the best Canadian systems, and children in Croatia have the right to a better education system. Does every government have to act like it's the beginning? Do we always have to be in perfection or future? Croatian citizens want a presentation. When you're listening to the position, everything's black, nothing's wrong. The Croatian economy is on the verge of breakdown. But thanks to the three-month wanderings of MOST and the patriotic coalition on the verge of a nervous breakdown. But fortunately, in the future government, there is one psychiatrist, and the future prime minister comes from the pharmaceutical industry, and we will all be happy to survive. We don't get any antidepressants. We can also disband the Parliament because the citizens will be the ones who will form the Government sending a message that when they go to the elections they do something completely irrelevant because you bring an expert from the outside. Each Government of the Republic of Croatia was an expert government. When we believe more and more in someone else's mind and not in your own, bring in another Japanese, two Germans and let them lead Croatia. Not team Oreshkovic is the savior of Croatia, nor is this government a dream team. You talked to investors, creditors, bankers in China, and you don't want to talk to us here in the Parliament today, answer our questions. Why, Mr. Oreshkovic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u812	It is up to the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u813	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Oreshkovic, candidates for members of the government, respected MPs and MPs in Croatia and respected citizens watching us. The choice of a new government is an important event that determines our lives for up to 4 years and, of course, longer. This today's choice is unusual in several dimensions, from the issue of electoral legitimacy, the model of candidate proposal, the geographical concentration of candidates for ministers, etc. Only if there is a clear programme behind which there is a clear vision can government members successfully achieve their objectives. We have not seen such a comprehensive and clear programme in the agreement on the reform government between the Most and the Patriot coalition. I was getting a few variations today and then I stopped reading because I see that I can't follow it anymore and I didn't get it. I don't know if he'll come here and be signed. Instead, the agreement included, what I saw, naked thesis that was just the base of the previous, just the basis of previous talks. In addition, the deadlines for changes had to be completed have disappeared. Therefore, this agreement is only an appropriate paper without the use of value on which no one will be able to appeal to responsibility. It's not a programme agreement, it's a letter of intent that doesn't commit anyone by its nature. So there's a vision missing in it even though the vision is mentioned, and a Japanese wise saying says, "The vision without action is a dream, and the action without a vision is a nightmare." I wouldn't want it to be a nightmare. The economic programme that I presented to the public on behalf of MOST 24th listopad in the News House 2015 is almost unrecognizable, and we have just received so many mandates on it. The citizens obliged us to adhere consistently to everything written there. So, for example. No one mentions monetary reform except me at MOST, and in recent days we've seen that it's wanted to be determined by foreign bankers. Without this reform, the difficult problems of the economy identified as objectives will never be resolved. As the author of the significant work of the Most Economic Programme, on the basis of which we received so many mandates, I can say that I feel played out, and I am sure all those who voted for us. What is there with the Swiss franc is due on Monday when debts must be extended to a frozen course. What about blocked, what about credit cooperatives that have robbed a large number of Croatian citizens? In increasingly complex relations within the EU, the problems of migrants and the recent global financial crisis require additional wisdom, a consistent economic programme that I have not been able to see here. If the government's focus is only on public debt and budget, it says the policy of the previous governments continues because it is not seen to be a far more important problem in the monetary and banking system and the Croatian People's Bank. Therefore, tightening the cutting and internal devaluation strategy will be the backbone of the economic policy, unfortunately the new government. We've already seen that scenario and he hasn't produced results anywhere in the world. I repeat, as regards the economy in key segments, the MOST has deviated from its original programme, so the question is, who are its authors? Based on recent statements from Austria, the main economic policymakers appear to be bankers, particularly foreign. Never in Croatia after the war were necessary to that end state decisions and strong moves to protect national interests within a clear and positive vision that would cure the Croatian economy and society. Unfortunately, I failed to see it consistently and clearly in this presentation. In the vision of 2020, the excellent goals of not falling below 14% are listed, it is now 17.5, so what is the goal of falling below 14? It could be 13 but it would be good to be around 5, that GDP growth is greater than 3% excellent, just how, to make export growth as much as 30% great how, that the public debt deficit is reduced to mastic Christianity great, how? Today, a friend of mine sent me a great news story today, he's the bankruptcy manager of Gredelj, for five years he's been running Gredelj in bankruptcy, which is news, he's contracted to export seven locomotives to the Americans. For five years, he's being held in chess by states and banks and he has to go to export. Here's a chance to help this company out if you want to boost exports on Monday. So he's not just fighting the competition, he's fighting the state, banks, etc. And five hundred workers work there. And let me finish for a while. On the basis of all the above and related to the economic programme, the original economic programme for which I entered politics, which is why I joined the Most and for which I was given confidence for years I have criticised, sought to contribute to finally forming and creating an economic policy that will protect Croatia and make it a proud country that will make life of work valuable. That's why I got involved in politics, which is why I came here to talk about the interests of these people, citizens and the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. There are many who speak but remain only in words. Gentlemen, there is no knowledge, determination, professionalism here, and based on what I've seen, I haven't seen it going in the right direction, and unfortunately I can't give you confidence because of the citizens I promised what I promised during the election campaign, and it's more important to protect my face and their interests than this. Maybe you'd go better utilitarian, etc. So if you make moves, of course, the government will be elected, if you make moves that are good I will be very happy to go before the Parliament and personally apologize to all of you, I will say that I was in great error and I am willing to help with everything I think. I think the time has come for us to speak openly to each other in the eyes of what we think is enough investment and hollow speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u814	We have one replica. Mr. Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u815	Thank you. Here I have to say that I am extremely happy and pleased that at the end of this evening we can prove that despite the fact that we have been talking to the wall all day or whatever, we are not getting a single answer and despite some of our colleagues answering and in some way making fun of everything at the end of the evening, it is nevertheless showing that someone has heard all these arguments that we have heard in the last 12 hours or how long we have spoken and that someone has finally heard everything we have said, here is colleague Lovrinović has heard and accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u816	Okay. The honourable representative Veljko Kajtazi is on his way in a separate debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u817	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Prime Minister Mr. Oreshkovic, dear colleagues and colleagues. I address you as a representative of 12 national minorities in the Croatian Parliament of 22 recognised national minorities in the Republic of Croatia I represent more than half of that total number by the Constitution of recognised national minorities. I also represent the Roma National Minority, which is recognised at both European and national level as a minority at European level and at national level in almost all social and public activities. More endangered than the majority population but also other recognised national minorities in our country. I point out this because since your appointment as prime minister of the future Croatian government, we haven't been able to hear much about national minorities. Even before your appointment, we could hear that national minorities should not decide on the future composition of the government, or that their vote should pay the majority, which is directly contrary to both the current constitutional solutions and the Constitution of guaranteed rights that are supported by the Club of National Minorities. I am interested in your position on these events but I am also interested in what your Government will do and how it will act in view of the practice so far, that is, national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I hope that you have so far had the opportunity to learn about the normative frameworks and legal provisions as well as the national Roma programme according to which this national minority cannot overcome the existing state of affairs on its own. On such grounds, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted the National Programme for Roma, the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, guaranteed rights and the removal of all forms of discrimination. The programme is based on the provisions of international human rights documents and the rights of national minorities that the Republic of Croatia is. Experiences from other countries that systematically address the problem of Roma have also been used. But I can tell you that we've done more than one country but still not nearly enough. In your presentation of your minority government program are mentioned only once and by the way. On the other hand, the documentation that we have received from all the representatives in the working materials of the national minority has not been mentioned in a single word. On the contrary, this supply of work material even shows signs of halting programmes and projects that are essential to national minorities. Namely, the working material that has been delivered to us states that the process of curiculum and reform will be stopped, which includes programmes for the minorities and in which the Roma language and culture should finally be included in the Croatian school system. Education is an area of exceptional importance for the Roma community, as well as a number of other areas that are either very shrub or not indicated. There is also no word on the process of recognising minority languages or of national interest to the Roma and other minorities I represent, the recognition of their minority languages. The Roma language was recognised by UNESCO in our Croatian initiative last year and was declared the 5th November World Day of Roma Language and it is yet to be recognised in the Republic of Croatia. In no way has it been confirmed that Roma and other national minorities will finally receive textbooks in their own language or will learn about their centuries of long history and suffering from school textbooks. Will the process of legalising Roma settlements or temporary employment programmes of members of the Roma national minority be interrupted as announced by the reform curricula? Whether a minority and cultural programme and the marking of national minority holidays will continue to be supported by your ministers in the relevant ministries. A lot of open questions are not mentioned and there is simply not enough information about what your views are and what your Government and ministers are planning to improve the position of the most vulnerable group in our society of the Roma national minority as part of the announced improvement of Croatian citizens' standards. I think these are the key questions that my electoral body and I want to hear the answers in which and within what time and whether your government will continue to work and improve Roma and other minority communities. I expect your government to recognise what I am saying and to take care of the statisticalally proven most vulnerable group in our society to members of the Roma national minority but also of all other national minorities I represent, Austria, Bulgaria, Germany, Poland, Romania, Russia, Russia, Turkey, Ukraine, Vlaška and the Jewish national minority who also have a number of problems to consider. I want to tell you that good foundations have been made, but it is very important that the work continues in continuity and that we bridge this gap between minority groups and the majority population so that first of all, the Roma community begins to take care of itself, which is a long-term goal but very real. I would also like to highlight the need for more respect for the legitimacy of Roma representatives in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the presentation in the Croatian Parliament Roma are presented at lower levels. To date, however, they have no working conditions or sufficient respect from local authorities. This is particularly problematic given that in the past few years there has been a awakening of the Roma community, and it largely goes to the polls and elects its representatives while these representatives on the other hand do not have good working conditions, which is why dissatisfaction and conflicts arise. As a representative in the Croatian Parliament, the lower levels rely on my help and support, and I find it very difficult to tell and answer what will happen in the coming months. Before we approach the vote of confidence, I would like to ask you once again a key question concerning the national minority I represent. I've never had a chance to see any written documents with plans 13. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. I want to hear about your future government's programme for all the national minorities I represent, especially the most endangered Roma national minority. I wonder if there is a context for announced economic reforms. In your opinion and the plans for space to improve the situation of the Roma national minority in line with the existing needs in accordance with the national strategy and other documents, in particular in terms of the employment of the Roma national minority, which has been a problem that has been only temporarily or in no way solved. Have you taken into account the fact that you have been preparing with the Government in these few weeks, and your programme, as I say, and are planning to continue and improve your government's work and cooperation with the Roma community? I hope that my work and cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the new assembly of Parliament will be equally good and preferably improved. Because like I said, a lot of things have been done, but not nearly enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u818	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u819	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Prime Minister Mr. Oreshkovic, members and members of the future government, I think you will be. In this House, we question, question when we trust the government. On our tables, i.e. in our boxes, we received two documents which, when we analyze your presentation a little bit better, we listened carefully to all together, which I like by the way I like the way power point presentation. However, purely well-intentioned criticism, if you have already gone in such a way as to allow me as an engineer to accept numbers, letters, as few letters as possible then I would suggest that you may have done and acted according to otherwise practical methodology means swot analysis short and that you are strategic, since this is the strategy of transforming Croatia that you have guided the principles of the strategic document, the mini strategic document. So, vision, priorities, measures. However, key guidelines for the reform government can be linked to this. I'd like to know if you've read this document and what's inside. I don't want much, I'll try to be brief, concise. But when we got the materials, we also got the lives of future ministers and ministers. And I can say as far as expertise is concerned, qualifications would have nothing to object to. However, I know some of them from last term of their activities, their work. Whether from a local level, from a regional level. Mrs Alibegovic also references, Mr Romic, his work and others. And I wouldn't have any objections about that. But when you compare your presentation to what it says here, I wish you'd read it, I believe it wouldn't then come in this format, in this form on our tables. I will mention specifically that I assume that my colleague Tolusic had an impact on what he writes here or someone who knows the problem of regional development very well. In the replica I was a colleague of Kovačić I tried to get from him what MOST thought of certain things, so I was read there by the Ministry of Justice. And the main one as a reform I'm going to mention again is the court's mail, updates, or something like that. Well, I don't see it as a reform, and we're all aware of it is both the right side and the left side and the centre of Parliament talking about the biggest problem, one of the biggest problems is inefficient justice. Well, wasn't there more in that part of it to write what you're going to do or there's nothing left to do? To be honest, I don't see what the campaign talked about, because other than these documents and what we managed to do through the media to monitor your activities and the Patriot coalition and the Most, we are going to reform local, regional self-government. Mr. Karamarko says we won't lift the county. What are we gonna do? And you stated in your presentation what the former government is now, let's say the current one still, but the future former has already mentioned, that is, certain legislative proposals as a premise for reforms. Did that give up? The Ministry of Transport, the infrastructure is very substantial, I could even agree with the vast majority of it. My colleague Butkovic is also the chief of staff, so I understand he has a guard, he knows the problem, but he's a dyspression. The problem is that you too are aware of these are unclassified roads which unfortunately are financed from local budgets. I have to admit that I was confused by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, which I was also trying to see what my colleague from MOST would say to amend the Strategic Investments Act. Well, that's not the domain of that ministry. That law was passed in the last term in this last VII, the Ministry of Economy was domicillous. Furthermore, initiate the process of uniting land books and catastras. I absolutely support it, I don't think there's anyone here in the assembly who won't support it. But it's not the sole jurisdiction of the Department of Construction. The Ministry of Justice, which is even more important, is a technicality. There's not even a word about it. And complete and improve the legalisation process started five years ago and is not yet finished. Well, it's been a little less than five years, pure accuracy and truth working. A very good law, excellent whose results will yet be visible I hope in this coming year. I mean, I could do it all the time. But what I would like you to do, I believe that you are aware you have concentrated in your presentation, which I fully understand, because you are not a politician. It doesn't always have to be a problem, it doesn't have to be a handicap, but you have to be aware that the government is a political body, the Parliament is a political body and teaching on what both a colleague of Hope from the club and a colleague from the left said well-meaningly that for all the decisions that certain ministers will make, were good or bad, as our people say to whom they whisper and glory, which is you. I would like, as are my colleagues, to succeed this government in this intention and in what you have outlined as your goals, but you have failed to convince me. You failed to convince me because I judge the basis of what we get on the benches. Namely, why do I say that? I followed closely, so the key issues are how to speed up GDP growth, etc., I wrote your statement "We will not allow political interference". How do we figure that out? Did you think that since two of your vice presidents are the leaders of political parties, did you imagine in your vision that you would paraphrasise with the company of the three-member board so that two members of the administration could change one? I just want to give you a well-intentioned turn, and I believe that you will get to know each other, and you will have to get to know each other in the context of the circumstances, with all aspects that are not mentioned in the presentation, with everything that is the basic act of the Republic of Croatia, which is the Constitution, talks about the work of the Government, about the work of Parliament. I believe that you have read the Constitution, even if most importantly you have succeeded because ultimately your presentation if we go to watch is not in line with constitutional principles in terms of what you yourself have said. When you were speaking in part of the visions of 2020, there was a dyspression. You've given yourself relatively let's say moderate goals, those that could be reached. Under the quality of life, however, reduce unemployment below 14%. I'd rather it says increase employment, not reduce unemployment. I can't support not personally, but this way. I say we judge the basis of what we get. I'm not sure you have any support. You see that we all follow what is written on portals, etc., but also if you succeed in obtaining support, you will have a very constructive opposition that will not criticise for criticism, but we will also try to suggest certain things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u820	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u821	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I told Mr. Oreshkovic earlier today that I might even be held back on your government and your mandate if you impress me. Unfortunately, you didn't even bother. I'd just like to tell you briefly what kind of country you get in your inheritance. Here in the last five years of our movement, associations and parties I've really been with small people, the most difficult moments, the moments in which families are destroyed, the moments in which the only home is lost. For the vast majority of these people, it's not their own fault, it would be their own fault if it were a small number of cases of people who had gambled or invested badly. Unfortunately, we have victims of the system. Imagine a beautiful tree, Mr. Oreshkovic, and imagine that tree has one beautiful leaf. And as time goes by, someone's cutting branches more and more, cutting off those leaves. This has been happening with Croatia in recent years, so I will say even the last decades. One divorce, one poverty and one imperceptibility, no hope. This country needs inspiration! But how to inspire if you don't say anything, right? This country needs a person who will give them a new hope, instill a new system of values to forget everything we've been through. Don't forget to declare yourself redundancy, to start rewarding people for the merits, to appreciate work, effort, learning, and not to appreciate charity, war profit, or how people would say bread without cake. In addition to that system of values and general corruption on the judiciary, he could actually speak for days and I will during the work of this Assembly. You should mention all the victims of the executive mafia in this country, all the victims of the banks were those victims of credit cooperatives, the illegal Raiffeisen cooperatives, were those victims of the HYPO Bane in the HYPO affair, were those victims of the Frank, were those victims of the Ljubljana Bank, and not to list further everything, to forgive me when I so express myself to the banking pigs in this country. It is the failure of the Croatian National Bank as the main regulator, it is a presense of the existence of the Live Wall of the Debt Party at all. We have been pointing out this problem since 2011, and I am glad that there are several people in this higher home who are experts, so all their life deals with these topics, and that is already half our victory because we have managed to impose a topic of monetary reform and we will continue to talk about it. Because without this reform, all other reforms will not bring anything or little and that is the basic thesis behind the Living Wall. Furthermore, as far as you're concerned, there is nothing against you personally, Mr. Oreshkovic, I think that you would be a great minister for some things or that you might be great at running some public enterprise, but you can't be Prime Minister. Mr. Oreshkovic, do you know how many people voted for you? Straight zero. You weren't on any list, you weren't in any dealings. The Croatian people didn't see you, they didn't vote for you, let's say they introduced you during the election campaign, unfortunately they didn't, you were brought in at the last minute. Instead of mentioning some other names, I don't know where the media was talking from the Adria Group, or I don't know more than where. You're just like that deputy clone of yours without bad intentions, never personally means I don't attack, you think in a way I don't like, corporate. Unfortunately, we are in the world at this time in a process that states want to come down to companies and want countries to function as companies without their own currency rights, without the emissions of money and some other tools that are even the taste of the state. I think it's ours, and I know that our country is heavily elected and the Living Wall will never accept the denial of the Croatian Kuna. This is the foundation of our sovereignty because without money, without currency there is no state even though we could discuss again to what extent the kuna currency is or is not. Furthermore, as far as your presentation is concerned, I am very disappointed with the standard shown here, as you progress through schooling, so are the references, and the final papers, graduates, etc. More and more advanced, more complex and eventually one very complex document comes to light. What you've given us here and presented you call a strategy, but the strategy should be something much more complex. This could possibly be some kind of program, even though I wouldn't exactly say the program, but some kind of here... string of hints. The strategies are something far more complex. What is the fate of the strategy in Croatia I will only mention the energy strategy from 2009 to 2020. One of the first articles in it says that there will be a nuclear power plant in Croatia, the first day and a whole series of other deadlines for building other power plants in the strategy and a whole series of other intended facilities that have or have forever given up on them, or fat late. What you have offered us together with that you have not answered any parliamentary questions, or any replica, along with not knowing who your people really are, unfortunately they cannot speak or ask them anything, nor can they ask them anything. Here I have analyzed this strategy of yours, and once we move the first page, when we remove this plan and then some quotes, and it's said, and, of course, a list of the government that would fit on one page of A4, but it's drawn to six, I guess it's a little bit more detailed. In the end, you have only seven pages left where something actually writes. I think fellow MP Lovrinovic said well, so naked to the bone is something that should have been serious. In the campaign I heard that MOST is a serious party, I don't want to believe that this is the height of that seriousness, that this is the document to be handled. This is by far the best strategy that has ever been downloaded from the Internet, this is something that unfortunately in our school system as it is, which needs to be reformed, which we will still be able to refer to every day. The primary and secondary school students download content they didn't understand, copy, paste print is called in my generation, and then they put something like this together, throw it, slaughter it, and give it to the professor for some sort of grade. Mr. Oreshkovic, I expected you to have a much thicker document, I expected you to have a much stronger discussion, controversy, a democratic controversy that we do not see, and that is actually the continuity of the non-democratic behavior that I described earlier because you did not participate in the democratic process. Because of all this I will not support this government and because of my voters who are almost 100,000, which is actually the fourth party in the country, unfortunately the mandate is as much. We cannot support this government and this way of thinking. I'm afraid you'll continue to remove those branches and leaves I mentioned at the beginning. I won't be extremely negative and critical. If something is smart and useful in the spirit of the development of Croatian society I will support it, we will also propose some of my laws but I must express my opinion, I fear that once this government is voted on, if elected, the face will change but the system will remain the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u822	Thank you very much. The next debate came from a distinguished representative, Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u823	Mr. President, Your Honor... The mayor, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't write any correct political speech, I don't have anything in my hands and I won't read and I won't keep you long. I'd just like to say a few sentences like that from the bottom of my soul and make you an appeal. I'd like to appeal to you colleagues on the left and right to single out one segment of social action, which is science and education. To raise science and education above all political interests. The debate here has shown that this is a very important and crucial issue. I say that no reform we have imagined will pass unless we reform education and education, link science and the economy. If we are aware of these facts then we will justify our party membership, when we pass laws and some solutions we will vote on our conscience and try to do our best. In that case, we'll have the entire academic community behind us. That's a lot of potential, believe me. I once again appeal to you to put science and education above all political interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u824	Thank you very much, especially for the brief exposure. The next one will speak in an individual debate, the distinguished representative Svetana Lazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u825	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, respected candidates for ministers and ministers. I am pleased to see that you are all gathered in full numbers to listen to what MPs in this Croatian Assembly have yet to say. When I applied for this debate, I thought communication would be two-sided in this High House, but now I see that I was mistaken. I mean, I'm in this House for the first time, and I thought it was supposed to be a little different, but obviously I was wrong. And for this reason, I will change my original version of the exhibition a little bit and take this opportunity to mention my city of Petrinja to the Croatian Parliament's pay phone if I can at least keep that promise I made to my voters. Namely, I am one of the two MPs, is that my mandate will last for a short time because I am a replacement for Minister Mrsic but there is also a colleague, Miodrag Demu, who comes from the town of Petrinja small but large town. The small because there are, of course, larger cities in Croatia but also large cities because it was great in the Homeland War. With all due respect to the full mention of Vukovar and Knin when it comes to the Homeland War of Petrinja is a city that has given huge sacrifices and paid a high price. And we in Petrinja don't think it's familiar enough, not mentioned enough and not appreciated enough in public what Petrinja gave in the Homeland War. Namely, Zagreb was built in Petrinja and my colleague, Miodrag Demo, can also confirm it. The space of Banovina or as some still call Banije and Korduna, the space between Kupa and Una has been destroyed... During the Homeland War, additionally fueled by the privatisation of the net after the war and today it is devastated economically, demographically and spatially. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most important thing that has not been prevented is the loss of jobs, the collapse of villages and the eviction of the population. In your visions, goals and wishes, which are the only thing we heard today from our prime minister and during the presentation of the Government, you said you would improve the economic and social opportunities in Croatia and raise the standard of living. Although you haven't said how you think it's important that you know that because you probably don't understand the history or the current situation in which I come from, that this space was created, produced, developed. There were refinery, ironworks, Gavrilović, Herbos, Segestica, Builder, FINEL, Slaviatrans, bricks and dozens more of plants and companies. They worked in companies, they fed on families from these areas, but they also trained wider children to be better than their parents, they were all someone's jobs that were destroyed today. We've heard a lot of times about the emigration of young people, as someone said here today 90 and 100 grand, by the end of the day it's probably going to be and 120 is transferring to the current government. But I think that the responsibility of all those who are after the war, all those who have spent the privatisation after the war in a well-known Croatian way, and that is certainly not the current government. The factories were privatized after the war, today they're mostly closed, failed, and empty. We in Petrinja have a situation that Gavrilovic does not have any co-operant that in the area of the former Zeljezare Sisak where more than 14 thousand workers worked today for the sake of them several hundred and that is the reality, the Croatian reality that is in us in that space. After the Government of the Republic of Croatia's high treason on the sale of INA to Hungarians, we are anxious to close and lose jobs. Although I know you're not answering your questions, but here's my right to ask you a question, too, after all these MPs have been asked so far. I wonder if you will continue the youth employment measures that have been successfully implemented by the current government? I wonder if you'll continue the program of public works? Yeah, public works for a minimumer people do. Maybe it's not your idea, you can't imagine what it means, for example, 10 employees in one municipality of Dubica or Dvor. It may or may not be inconceivable to you, but ask those people who live there what it means to them. And in the end, I know you won't answer, but at least I know you listened and I hope you've heard not only you prime minister, but also your team members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u826	Thank you very much. The next is as an individual debate will be those respected representatives of Biljana Gaja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u827	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues and your colleagues. Here's a little voice from Vukovar after Petrinja. As the youngest parliamentary representative who unfortunately won't have the honour of discussing it for much longer, I must express a little shame today. I am ashamed of the individual statements of MPs, I am ashamed as a volunteer and activist of the attacks by individual representatives on the work of the civil sector, on associations, organisations without which Croatia would certainly not achieve this current degree of democracy and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Although an emphasis has already been mentioned in my debate, I will put on education and education. They're the foundation of every society. In what ways and values we will pass on to children and young people is no less important than the adoption of knowledge and skills. However, it is very important to direct children and young people to be socially responsible or irresponsible citizens. Are we going to teach them that antifascism is not a civilizational fluid? Are we going to talk about different minorities, whether national, religious, sexual, or any other, as citizens of the second order? Will we have to fight for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms as if we live in the twilight of democracy and the Middle Ages? Are we going to tell children and young people that funding and the work of the civil sector, volunteering and activeism is a beating of empty straw and a completely worthless thing? Therefore, respected and esteemed prime minister, I hope that the current media inscriptions on that you put the wrong document in place, and that you will not stop the curricula reform, a reform that included professional people of different profiles and different ideological worlds that was inclusive, transparent and very necessary for Croatian society. Also respected, Prime Minister, I hope you will show that you are still caring for the values of multiculturalism, cultural diversity and wealth and that you will show it by your practical actions. You've got two chances for that right now. The first is to support and continue the project of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, and it is called the Intercultural School of Danube in Vukovar, in which at last, by the choice of parents and children of Croatian and Serbian but also other nationalities in the city of Vukovar, will be able to go to class together, learn about each other and live with each other. Another occasion for this is to introduce civic education and education as a mandatory subject in schools as this government wanted, I apologize, which, if anything else to begin with, will at least be based on the postulates of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which some of your ministers will deny. And finally, I look forward to as many young people as I do to your reform, which is why I will immediately find a job after I have to leave the Croatian Parliament and apply to the Croatian Employment Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u828	Thank you very much. The next and last one in the debate is the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u829	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The fact is that these elections have passed in the wake of reforms. All the political forces that competed for entry into this honored House highlighted these reforms and needs, the necessary need for reforms to heal the sick Croatian economy, and unfortunately Croatian society as a whole. He said here one before the speaker is easy to ask for rights when the bag or cash register is full, alluding to the fact that the bag, i.e. the register of the Republic of Croatia, is empty. And that's true. The truth is for any serious reform procedure it is necessary to obtain some funds, funds that will enable the prime minister, the government, ministers at least one time teat to launch a rather inert stopper of the Croatian economy. The question is raised between Mr. Oreshkovic and the Ministerial Candidates, where is the intention of imposing these funds to trigger the slow inert stopper of the Croatian economy? From past practice, ladies and gentlemen, for 25 years, we have seen that it has constantly reached out for family silver, or for the sale of state property. I'll remind you if you give yourself a hard time and peek into the register of state property you'll see that the state property of the Republic of Croatia is at the very bottom. Counting on the pace of selling, selling or giving, it was calculated that at the end of its term, if it were to get lucky and with God's help for four years, the Republic of Croatia would be left without property. So, the question to you, Mr. Oreshkovic, is how do we think that the creditors or creditors or investors who call them but far from the investors are more of the neo-colonizers, how are they going to give us loans, how are they going to reprogram these loans and liabilities that are coming from somewhere in the third month? I think it would be very good for Croatia to find strength within itself and not go into further borrowing outside. And if it is necessary to be in charge that Croatia has ruled against the practice so far, it is mandatory to ask the consent of this honorable House, which, of course, has not been the case so far. The fact is, you're a capital man, you're a businessman. Your résumé is very impressive for a man who deals with the economy, manufacturing and making money for those he works for. But here the case is completely different. I didn't see where Pliva, who you were headed, gave back the reputation she had until the '90s. It should be recalled that Pliva was literally a pharmaceutical giant with perhaps the strongest research department not only in this part of Europe but even across Europe. The fact is that in Pliva, as some predecessors have said, there were as many as 6500 people, today it is reduced to the needs of the new owner only 1500 and all in order to make a profit. I say profit because let's not forget the moment the Republic of Croatia loses its assets all the means to produce profits, which is the basis of all reforms, will go into the hands of foreigners. And we will become what I love to say constantly we will become the only country without property. I don't want to believe anyone here in this House wants that to happen, so it's necessary to note that only one who holds ownership of the sea production funds dictates all political flows in the state. Let's not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that all the wars, all the riots, all the coups, and in the end line and all the elections were held on only one thing – who will control the means of production that bring profit. We've never seen that before. The fact is, this presentation, as I said before, is not very representative of a single government. Not a very representative part of the minister's candidate. I'm just afraid that behind your name for a while it wouldn't lead to power or the head of the government of some other people, some other political options, so as not to bring to power those who didn't get electoral legitimacy. And that would be a tragedy. I really hope it doesn't come to that. No one in this country can guarantee you 100 days of peace because these 100 days of peace are from other times when technology was much slower than it is today. So, we believe that today, already at today's presentation of the government and the government's programme, a concrete plan should have been brought into line with the needs of today's situation in Croatia, and there is no such thing. And that's not good. I believe that you will gain strength and that it will improve to the joy of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u830	Thank you very much. Now, the final word on behalf of the HNS Club will be Honorary Representative Igor Coleman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u831	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the esteemed Prime Minister and candidates for ministers and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Oreshkovic, you've heard almost everything today, almost everything you've seen and I'm pretty sure, I'm sure you've got it all figured out. The only question that remains irresponsible right now is whether you like it or not. We at the HNS were not a secret we were not happy with the way negotiations were going about putting this government and most of it together. Unfortunately, it looked like a circus and blackmail. Nor was your appointment under the happiest star under such circumstances. But when information began to come about you in the media, in public, everyone who met you in the professional section or in private life had something good, mostly something good to say about you. And the result was that a good part of the public was willing to wish you happiness, and even today, many colleagues and colleagues even from the opposition were willing to do the same. But this isn't good today, and that happiness won't be enough. You even get most of the rash in front of you right here right now. In addition, the whole story today is overshadowed by the problem of several candidates for ministers, especially one candidate. It has completely overshadowed your government, which has completely overshadowed the good people in that government that it certainly has undisputed, it has completely overshadowed the government's program, and unfortunately it has completely overshadowed you personally. And no matter what you think about it, which we'll hopefully find out soon enough, that's not good. We have put ourselves in a position to feel attacked and humiliated by the very introduction of the government one part of our fellow citizens. And it's not an ideological debate, it's about preserving the standards and values that apply in all civilized, organized countries, which you've finally spent most of your private and professional life in. And I just hope to be honest that it wasn't really part of the plan and that it wasn't part of the plan, that such discussions, such statements, were clouded by the lack of the programme of this government that you presented to us. Your presentation today is very correct, very correct. The objectives you set are undeniable and I think that we are voting here on the objectives that you set to have unanimous support, but don't be angry because this reform programme of the reform government is not. And by all I know about you, I think you're well aware of that, too. And the last thing I want to say is, I'm sorry that you haven't once used your ability, your right to answer to any of the MPs or MPs who came forward today. I don't know what the reason is, it doesn't matter, but your fundamental and basic right if you are elected as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia but also your fundamental and fundamental, fundamental obligation on that function is to be the strongest, most vocal political and professional voice of the Government, and in relation to the Croatian Parliament, it is also a matter of respect for the representatives and representatives who agree with them or not. You're a respected Mr. Oreshkovic called this government the other day a handsome team. To achieve the goals you set, you will need a dream team. I just hope this government doesn't turn into a night... team. Because if this turns into a night... the team is going to be your... Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u832	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the final word will have the honourable representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u833	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed prime minister, has been under discussion all day, has been asked a lot of questions and we haven't heard a single answer. You have had the opportunity to respond to the initial replicas of the opening exhibition or to report for discussion after every presentation we have heard here. You didn't do it once. We don't know what the reasons are. Perhaps you did not understand us well when we speak Croatian, perhaps Mr Karamarko has forbidden you to answer and you listen to him. I hear that a coalition agreement has been signed, but I also hear that Mr. Lovrinović, a member of the Most, says that the economic programme has been derailed to unrecognizable. The citizens have obliged us to stick to it, without economic reform, difficult problems will not be solved. As the author of a significant part of the MOST programme, I feel played out by Lovrinović. He's not the only one, he's not the only one. The gamers feel a lot of voters, first of all. They wanted the reforms you promised them and they only got the grab for the armchairs. The mandator who adjectives to give to your government? She's no doubt traditional. When the ministries and public companies in Metkovic are filled, only Jambo will remain. It is based on fraud, the fraud of Mr. Petrov, who made a public promise and signed with the notary that he would not go individually with any coalition and yet eventually went with the one in which he was drawn by ideology. The fraud of Mr. Raskovic, who was voted by Croatian Serbs to protect their interests and he deceived them and protected HDZ interests. I'm asking you, Prime Minister, because you agree to be Prime Minister on fraud? We can't vote for your government, we can't vote for the human resources we've been talking about here all day, but we're not coming across your answer. The anti-fascism values are compromised, and we have to protect them because as you said in the opening speech if we don't protect them, who will if we don't protect them now that they're threatened, and when do we protect them? It is our obligation against advanced enlightened voters who seek the protection of civilization values. Most betrayed them, we won't, we don't have that right. Is this what the citizens wanted? We think they're not, so we think the citizens are faked, manipulated and deceived. That is why the SDP will be ready at any moment to take responsibility for Croatia, we will return.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u834	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, the final word has the honourable representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u835	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You see colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament, took 13 hours to drop their masks. So all the time here, colleagues and colleagues please be patient a little, no anxiety. So this is where Mr. Oreshkovic's name is called all the time and you were afraid of his final half hour. Fear got in the bone. Because you're not, look, in a few minutes you're leaving the Ban Courts outside. Therefore, at these 13 hours, you have not offered any argument that would challenge what Mr. Oreshkovic said on behalf of the ruling ones. You didn't say a single argument to challenge the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, but now you're finally starting to insult people. Where did you get the right to tell you that Croatian Serbs would not vote for HDZ? Where did you get that right? What are you, their spokesman? Also, if you are already taking the right to call and lynch the people of your colleague Coleman, then at least take it and quote what that man said that you are all calling today. What did he say? I wish you'd set yourself up so warmly for those all killed Croatian people outside the borders who killed UDBA and KOS in 50 years. However, you deliberately defended the law of lex Perkovic. We can't have different attitudes, we can't have different views, the victim's a victim. The victim is a victim. And according to each victim, he should have a pite. However, I say, people say things in anxiety. But what's true, after four years you've left 100 billion more debt, you've driven 100,000 young Croats across the border and gone 90,000 jobs. That is the truth that the European Commission has also told you in its report on removing macroeconomic imbalances. You haven't spoken in this House in a single word today about economics. You're not. And if you were talking about economics, then we wouldn't be able to talk about these ideological farces. However, when you have no results, because I remember when the government was represented here four years ago, no one, but no one on this side of the assembly tried to challenge that you have more than 76 votes, that you have the right to form a government. We challenged what you said in your economic and economic programme. At the end of the day, when we look at the result now after four years, look at what you're told then, unfortunately we were right, we were right. You failed to implement the reforms and what happened happened. And it's going to happen to us in four years if we don't implement the reforms that we've listed here. Unlike empty political speeches today, Mr. Oreshkovic has tried to send a message here, which is Croatia's basic problem and what we need to work on in order not to discuss all these imbalances again for 4 years. However, it obviously does not go well and I say it is not nice and it is not convenient for someone who received votes for the Croatian Parliament to say that his voters voted for the SDP and did not vote for HDZ. But I'm saying this stream is already huge since morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u836	Thank you very much. We have four replicas. He is the first to present his representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u837	This is how Mr. Raskovic was on the SDSS minority list. There was no HDZ on the SDSS minority list, so Croatian Serbs who voted for Raskovic could not possibly vote for HDZ. And the second you ask me, and why don't I stand up for the victims... - a suicide chase. - Oh, my God. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So why didn't you stand up for them when you were a cashier in the communist youth while Kosor was there as president?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u838	The Honorable counsel Shucker will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u839	Look fellow Trainer, you as a tax collector,......... Yes, because summering on Brijuni for 7 kuna is a reception in nature. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have no right to say what you're saying. And because I wasn't a cashier, I was the head of finance and I've spent my whole life dealing with finance. ... And never, just clap, and I've never been a member of your famous communist party. [[Applause.]] But look, fellow Stazić, we've been in this House for 16 years, and when you talk like this, then I know you're deeply defeated and we enjoy it because today you've suffered a great political defeat with your poor performance in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u840	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u841	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, in the last term, we had great communication with each other, and it seems to me, regardless of what we did to other political options, I'm sorry that in some way we're ending this with a harsh remark, so as far as UDBA and KOS are concerned, I hope you haven't connected that with me. But if so, I have invested my entire youth in political engagement in this country trying best to know and represent the attitudes that I think are good help to turn this country into a modern, free country, which is why I am also a liberal, as the greatest threat, as the greatest threat to the UDBAs and all such things contempting Yugoslavia and communism. And as far as Lex Perkovic is concerned, you all know the role of the HNS in the lex Perkovic story and the fact that the HNS first in the coalition stood up and that it was one of the great earthquakes in the coalition when HNS opposed Lex Perkovic, which is why he did not eventually revive.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u842	They will respond to the replica of the distinguished counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u843	Comrade Coleman, part of my debate that went to your expense was regarding fellow Hasanginic. So, only on that I said exactly what you said that I expected if you're going to discuss it, that you're going to quote what a man said he was experiencing such attacks. So that part of the story applies to you and to your debate. And this second part of the story refers to a great gentleman who likes to call out, because look, I remember all sorts of accusations. People are freed, but he never apologized to anyone. So it doesn't go to your expense, so let's get that straight. You know who he's going after. Those who love summers like to be driven by military ships from Brijuni in Wang, but with a new culture minister, it won't be possible. And it would be very interesting to see a list of people, if we should, and we can give it to those who were at that time on Brijuni for 7 kuna, and that's also very interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u844	The word has the esteemed representative Jaroslav Pecnik as a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u845	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Schucker said that, you were saying why we think or think people here that Croatian Serbs would not vote for HDZ. I'm sure you're right, they'd vote and vote when you let them vote on Cyrillic, but it's not time for Cyrillic yet. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u846	Answer, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u847	Well, you'd probably let them, so you didn't get their votes, you'd never get them. You will never even get them, so I think counterpart Bozo Galic, mayor of Vukovar-Srijem County, always wins with seats with the majority Serb population. So that's what he tells you best, and you as a Slavonic should know that. You just know what, sometimes things don't need to be pushed under the carpet and try to be smart and it turns out like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u848	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u849	Mr. Shuker, the debate is closed, the result is being seen, and I would pray without triumphism, without haughtiness. The majority of Croatian governments will outsource today, and that's good for Croatia. I don't even agree that the past government has driven 100,000 Croats out of Croatia. Croatia is living in the EU today, Croatia today accounts for only 1% of the EU population, a new labour market is open and people are going with their belly after bread where they think they will be better. If it hadn't been over for centuries, I could say it moved out of these areas Croatia today would not have a diaspora of 2 and a half, three million Croats around the world. In the 1990s, too, we believed that we would return three hundred thousand or half a million emigrated Croats to Croatia. That didn't happen. So I'm replicating you in that sense, that you don't even have to accuse the last government that someone sent someone away. 100,000 or 50,000 have moved away, followed by bread, and nothing will change this night when the government is voted. Unfortunately, Croatian citizens will go to the EU and the overseas countries tomorrow and the coming months, and probably also for the next few years. So I ask you nicely without triumphalism, without boasting because if triumphalism dominates, if haughtiness shines out of the ranks of the Patriot coalition and the Most, or the ruling majority, it will not be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u850	Thank you very much. Since we have completed the discussion, the final presentation will be held by Mr. Prime Minister Tihomir Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u851	I listened patiently and carefully to the gentleman here if I may, I don't know your name, but if I may say something you have commented which I fully agree with you, unfortunately I agree with you that this House is divided. This is my first day I can say in this House. I expected more, maybe growing up in Canada, and I saw how the Parliament behaves. When you brought me this picture, thank you. If my firm, the former firm had acted like this where we didn't know how many hours we spent on Ustasha themes, my company would have failed. That's why I didn't come here, I'm not a politician, so I'm going to communicate very openly the comments were that... I don't know, we'll get to know each other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I came as a Croat from Canada. This is my honor if I can help my country and here, if I may, on a few subjects, I will touch it. Minority. I was a minority in Canada, because I'm a Croat. They weren't us, I don't know how many millions, and they were Italians, and I was like when I was at Mr. Pupovac's, saying that my minorities were one fortune, because I saw what it was like in Canada, how it works in Canada. My friends were from India, China, Croatia, Serbia. We weren't looking from where you were, which is what you are than some of our values, ideas and that's what mattered to me. So I respect and see the advantages of the minority, and that is, minorities are wealth and that is my attitude. About democracy. Thank God, I'm not burdened with the past. I came here to help, to focus on what you saw in the presentation of economic growth, and if I can help this country raise the standard for all Croatian citizens. You mentioned big capital. Okay, this is democracy. There can be open communication, it's democracy, and thank you for having this democracy today. I've left my salary to it you all know, it's been a good pay. Everyone says, "Is this what I need?" I shouldn't, but I'm here. At first, I made it very clear that I was ready to take the challenge. And this is a huge challenge. Thank you, thank you for your instruction, and I respect that. Because in the input I'll learn more, I'll never close, I'm not blocked, it's important to me to hear, and I'll have my own attitude, my opinion, and I'll focus again, I won't let the ideologies get me out of my way. I have my goals, and that's what I think I've been very clear about. We've often commented on this Canadian model. There are things that are good and not just in Canada and other countries. I hope we will take this opportunity, but there is also Croatia I agree with a lot of good models that others could learn from us. When we talk about partners, I have other partners, I can tell people who were kind of my models. One was Pierre Elliott Trudeau liberal party in Canada, if you know Canadian politics. And this is, uh, his one vision of what he was looking for for Canada. Those are beautiful words, I hope that tomorrow may come here to this Parliament in our country. And that's to create... A gentle, kind nation. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] That's what I'd like to say to everyone. I hope our people are not divided, if then it is up to us to reunite them, that we are one people. When you said I didn't know that big capital again I think you read these days that I'm from like. I've met my character well, I know there are many in Lika, not only in Lika but I was also in Slavonia when I was president of Pliva. I've had opportunities to meet this country, and I know it's very clear to me that it's not easy for everyone and that many are on the verge of existence. So again, my goal is to raise everyone's standard of life and not just for some. Mr. Cacic said, I had a chance while I was in Pliva to meet, time and results. That is all I ask – time and results. I've worked hard in my career, I think I've achieved what I've achieved through the results. I am convinced that what I have achieved and the knowledge that I have will benefit this country. I worked with can say if I may to my colleagues from SDP, HNS, IDS, and I can say when we cooperated that we worked together for better Croatia. When I was president of Pliva, when you mentioned Pliva, I gave everything to my side where we could increase investment in Pliva. You're familiar with Pliva. Pliva was the largest private investor in Croatia. We invested over 250 million dollars at that time, hired young people over 200, and there we invested the same in development, in the financial center of activity. ... We want to put them in Poland, Hungary, somewhere else, we put them in Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one example. I hope that through this position and other opportunities I will withdraw in Croatia. About what the unions think, I would openly tell you to ask the unions I worked with in Pliva to ask them what Oreshkovic was like and you'll get a very clear story. I can tell you what I was, and I think it's important that you hear from the union. Ma'am, if I wrote this correctly, I agree with you that the party, the former government, has also introduced some good reforms. And what's good is we should keep it. So you've also commented that it's going to be difficult, I agree, but what's worth it is hard to create and I think it's clear to all of us. We've done a lot of commenting about Kitsbuhell and the investors again. I don't know, is that me from which side I came? I'm very transparent. Go online, you don't need to listen to me, go online and see the comments from investors and the results of these days that investors started looking, they started buying Croatian bonds which is good for Croatia. Because that's the first time we're going to see some positive shift because when it goes down the front if I can get a little bit of financial it's the first positive indicator that maybe if we go in the right direction and the ratings will rise. In the end, I think I could talk a lot longer, I think we'll have time to get to know each other, but again my goal, which I was hoping to communicate very clearly, I'm not a politician, I'm hoping to learn something in these four years, but in every democracy, Croatian citizens are the most important thing to me if I can say the indicator, while we're already on indicators. What they think I'm going to communicate with them very clearly tonight, if I may, I'm here for them, I'm ready to be a victim, I'm willing to take that challenge, but if I can help the Croatian people, I'm not going anywhere alone. Thank you for your input, it's worth your input and let's go work. Thank you. ./ Give it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u852	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been established that the government is on duty when it is trusted by most of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established to vote in favour of the Government's proposal as a whole. I ask those who are proposed in the government, and the MPs are to take their seats so they can vote. Please, first of all, let's establish a quorum. Please press any of the three shots you have in front of you. I think that's it. Please count. So we have 149 deputies this hour in the hall and that, of course, makes quorum. I am voting on a proposal to show confidence to the Prime Minister and the members of the government. Please vote. The vote is over. Of the 149 MPs, 83 voted in favour, 5 were abstentions, 61 was against it. [[Applause.]] Croatian Parliament thus expressed confidence in the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Tihomir Oreshković and members of the Government of Tomislav Karamark, first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Bozi Petrova Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Zdravko Marić Minister of Finance, Dark Horvat Minister of Entrepreneurship and Trade, Nadi Šikić Minister of Labour and Pension System, Oleg Butković Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Lovri Koščević Minister of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, Miri Kovacu Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Josip Buljević Minister of Defence, Mia Crnoji Minister of Croatian Defence, Anton Kliman Minister of Tourism, Darija Nakić Minister of Health, Predrag Šuštar Minister of Education, Science and Sports, Zlatko Hasanbegović Minister of Culture, Tomislav Tolušić Tolušić Minister of Regional Affairs and Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia. We will now join the next act, namely by showing confidence to the president and members of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the conditions have been made for the president and the members of the government to make a solemn oath. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are sworn in a way that the President of the Parliament reads the text of the oath and then the President and members of the Government individually when they are called up and say the oath. The text of the oath reads, "I swear to do my duty as a member of the Government knowingly and honorably, to respect the Constitution, laws and legal order and to advocate all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u853	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u854	Mr Tomislav Karamarko First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u855	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u856	Mr. Bozo Petrov Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u857	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u858	Mr. Zdravko Maric Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u859	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u860	Mr. Darko Horvat, Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u861	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u862	Ms. Nada Šikić, Minister of Labour and Pension System.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u863	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u864	Mr Oleg Butkovic, Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u865	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u866	Mr Lovro Kuščević Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u867	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u868	Mr Miro Kovac, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u869	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u870	Mr. Josip Buljevic, Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u871	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u872	Mr Mijo Crnoja Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u873	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u874	Mr. Anton Kleman Minister of Tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u875	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u876	Mr. Dario Nakic, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u877	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u878	Mr. Predrag Shustar Minister of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u879	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u880	Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u881	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u882	Mr Tomislav Tolusic is the minister of regional development and EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u883	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u884	Ms Bernardica Juretic, Minister of Social Policy and Youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u885	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u886	Mr. Ante Sprlje, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u887	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u888	Ms. Dubravka Jurlina Alibegovic, Minister of Management.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u889	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u890	Mr Vlaho Orepic, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u891	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u892	Mr Tomislav Panenic, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u893	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u894	Mr Davor Romic, Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u895	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u896	And Mr. Slaven Dobrović, Minister of Environmental and Nature Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u897	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u898	This also ended with the government's oath and I congratulate the prime minister of the Croatian government and the ministers of the Croatian government that we have just chosen. ... Now two technical notices, the joint photographing of the government will now be on the stairs and I am now giving a break of 20 minutes to immediately hold a session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission in Hall "Stjepan Radić" room number 133. [[Applause.]] I'll see you here in 20 minutes, i.e. 23.35 minutes. ... The painting is now now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[ANNIGHT IN 23.10]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 23.30 A.M.]] Here it is, after we have gathered after the break, I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Ms Margaret Mađerić, to submit the reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u900	Dear MPs and MPs, the mandate committee held its session and unanimously adopted the following decisions. Report on the start of the stay of MP Oleg Butkovic's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative of Lucian Vukelic. At its 2nd session, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the written request of MP Butkovic of 22 January 2016 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that he had put his representative mandate on hold for the conduct of his duties in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 42(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated as deputy representative of Lucian Vukelic. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has reached a decision on the rest of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 22 January 2016, the standstill of MP Oleg Butkovic began. Furthermore, the Mandate-Immunity Commission considered the written request of Agent Anton Kleman of 22 January 2016, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament, that he would put his representative mandate on hold for the conduct of his duties in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of his duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Following the above-mentioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, it found that the conditions for the start of the term of office of representative Anton Kleman and the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy, Josip Boric, were accepted. We have reached a decision on the rest of the MP's term of office and the start of acting as deputy deputies. Then, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 2nd session a written request from MP Darko Horvat, who puts his parliamentary mandate on hold because of the behaviour of his duties in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties. The Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 42(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated as deputy representative of Josip Krizanic. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Dark Horvat's term of office as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy Josip Krizanic. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament also discussed the written request of Representative Toimslav Karamark of 22 January 2016 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his representative mandate on hold for the conduct of his duties in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 42(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been set as deputy representative for Antu Zupan. The commission has established that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Tomislav Karamark's term of office as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Ante County. The mandate-immunity commission also received a written request from MP Mira Kovac, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his parliamentary mandate on hold for the conduct of his duties in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duty within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 42(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated as deputy representative of Mir Totgergeli. The Commission has established that the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Mira Kovac's mandate and the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Mira Totgergeli, have been laid down by law. The mandate-immunity commission also received a written request from MP Damir Jelic, 22 January 2016, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that he was putting his representative mandate to rest on the basis of Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 42(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated as the deputy representative of Mrs. Nada Murganic. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Damir Jelic's term of office as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy deputy, Nada Murganic. We also received a written statement on the resignation of representatives of Igor Fazekaš sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time on which he was elected should he resign. The commission found that Igor Fazekash began acting as deputy deputy representative on 28 December 2015 instead of elected representative Tomislav Tolusic. The Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 42(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Stjepan Pintaric as deputy representative Tomislav Tolusic. The Commission found that the resignation of the parliamentary office laid down the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary duty of Igor Fazekas as well as the conditions for the commencement of the conduct of his deputy, Stjepan Pintarić, of the parliamentary post. We also received a written request from the representative, God Petrov, who informed the commission that he was putting his parliamentary mandate on hold for the conduct of his duties in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duty within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Most Independent Lists pursuant to Article 42 The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated as deputy representative Maru Kristic. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of the representative's office, God Petrov, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy, Maru Kristic, acting. We have also received a written request from MP Tomislav Panenic of 22 January 2016, which informed the Commission that he has put his parliamentary mandate on hold for the conduct of his duties in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duty within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Most Independent Lists pursuant to Article 42 The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated as deputy representative Ruzica Vukovac. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Tomislav Panenic's term of office as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy deputy, Ruzica Vukovac. We also received a written request from representative Slaven Dobrovic, who informed the commission that he was putting his parliamentary mandate on hold for the conduct of his duties in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duty within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Most Independent Lists pursuant to Article 42 The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated as deputy representative of Mark Sladolev. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Slaven Dobrovic's term of office as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of the representative of his deputy, Mark Sladojev. Here is the president of the Croatian Parliament proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u901	Here's how it is, I suggest we open a debate about everything together and vote on everyone if you agree. That we're not going individually. Do we agree? You got it. So I'm opening a debate on this report to the Mandate Immunity Commission. No one seems to be the tool for participation in the debate. Then I'm closing the argument. We are voting on a proposal for a decision by the Mandating Immunity Commission that you have just heard. Please, first quorum to establish. Can we see what the quorum is? 130 good. Now I ask you to vote, to vote in favour of the motion for a decision of the Mandate Immunity Commission that you have just heard. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 131 MPs, 129 voted for, 2 abstentions nothing against. It therefore determines that the decision has been made by a majority of the votes. Now we're going to continue with the report of the Mandatory Immunity Commission, perhaps to explain what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u902	The Mandating Immunity Commission also accepted the requirements of the Social Democratic Party Club for the purpose of holding the parliamentary mandates and ending the conduct of the parliamentary post. We have also unanimously reached a decision and I suggest that I read all the mandates first and then vote united again. Therefore, the written request by the representatives on the conduct of the representative of the office from 22 January 2016, the Executive Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament, informed that, it found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Zoran Milanovic began on 28 December 2015 because of the incompatibility of the duties set out in Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and that the deputy deputy MP's office began acting on the same day by Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u903	Here to speed up the procedure then I ask Mrs Margaret Mađeric to just read who she's changing, not to read everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u904	Abortion and activation. So, the resignation of MP Zoran Milanovic's term of office and the suspension of his post as deputy deputy MP, Melita Mulic. The term of office of MP Orsat Milenic and the suspension of the office of deputy representative Allen Prelec shall be suspended. The resignation of MP Siniš Varga's term of office and the termination of the post of deputy representative Snježana Buzinec. The suspension of MP Josko Klisovic's term of office and the suspension of the capacity as deputy deputy deputy deputy, Karolina Leakovic. The term of office of representative Gordan Maras and the suspension of the post of deputy representative of Vesna Jakas shall be suspended. The term of office of representative Sinisha Hajdaš-Dončić and the suspension of the office of deputy deputy representative Dunja Špoljar shall be suspended. The suspension of the term of office of representative Tihomir Jakovina and the termination of the post of deputy representative Damir Rimco. The suspension of MP Predrag Matic's term of office and the termination of the post of deputy representative Biljana Gaće. Discontinuation of MP Boris Lalovac's term of office and termination of the post of deputy representative Kristina Ikic-Baniček. Termination of MP Miranda Mrsic's term of office and termination of the post of deputy representative Svetana Lazic. The suspension of MP Milanka Opačić's term of office and the suspension of the post of deputy representative Sasa Djujic. The suspension of the term of office of representative Michael Zmajlović and the termination of the post of deputy representative Kristian Rajel. The term of office of MP Tomislav Saucha and the suspension of the office of deputy representative Nenad Livun shall be suspended. Termination of the term of office of MP Ranko Ostojic and termination of the post of deputy representative Frank Vidovic. The suspension of the term of office of MP Branko Grcic and the termination of the post of deputy representative Niksha Peronja. And the suspension of MP Arsen Bauk's term of office and the suspension of the conduct of MP Tonci Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u905	Thank you very much. Now we're going to take those representatives for whom we can do it, they're going to swear it. They're agents, yeah, yeah, I just want to explain the difference. Namely, these MPs, who are now read by the distinguished Mrs Margareta Majeric, will not perform because of the Law on Elections on Saturday 30th. Therefore, we will now vote but they will not be able to take the oath until after that. So I'm asking you to determine the quorum first. 128, so we have a quorum. I ask you to vote for this proposal that you have now heard of the mandated immunity commission. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 129, 128 MPs voted in favour, 1 was abstentioned, therefore with most votes it was adopted. Following the adoption of the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 7. I invite you to join the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to take the oath. So in Article 7. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath and after that I shall namedly call the deputies who will then rise up and say "I swear". The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and the respected legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia.". Now we're going to move on to calling the MPs. First Mr. Ante Mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u906	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u907	Mr. Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u908	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u909	Mr. Lucian Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u910	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u911	Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u912	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u913	Mr. Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u914	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u915	Mrs. Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u916	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u917	Mr. Stjepan Pintaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u918	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u919	Mr. Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u920	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u921	Mrs. Rose Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u922	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u923	And Mr. Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u924	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u925	... Congratulations to all the new MPs. [[Applause.]] Thank you very much. I want the success of the new MPs who have just sworn in carrying out this honorable and responsible representative's duties. Let's have another round of applause, of course. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u926	Now we're going to go to the vote and supplement the agenda. First we go with the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Ms Margaret Mađeric, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u927	Thank you very much, Vice President, MPs and MPs. The mandate-immunity commission at its 3rd session had item 4 of the agenda, namely 4 reports on the suspension of the term of office. So let's go with the first one. Report on the cease-resistance of MP Vesna Pusic's term of office and the termination of the post of deputy representative Igor Coleman. The unanimous commission has reached a decision on the suspension of the MP's term of office and the termination of the deputy deputy's office. So on 30 January 2016, the term of office of MPs Vesni Pusic and the representative's representative's office ceases to act on Igor Coleman on 30 January 2016. Shall we vote together? [[Intruder: Not individually.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u928	We'll open the debate. Here's the debate on this proposal. Is anyone picking up? If no one's answering, I'm closing the argument. Here, let's find the quorum. We have 98 agents. So he had a quorum, so we can make a right decision. I present the first proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to vote. That's it for? I find that the decision was taken with 109 votes and 1 vote abstention. Next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u929	Thank you very much. So the next Report on the suspension of the term of office of MP Anka Mrak Taritas and the termination of the post of deputy deputy representative Melita Samoborec. The mandate-immunity committee unanimously decided to suspend the term of office of the representative and to suspend the capacity of the deputy deputy representative. On 30 January 2016, MPs, Anki Mrak Taritas, stopped holding the deputy deputy, stopped acting as Melita Samoborec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u930	I'm opening a debate. Is there anyone who's answering for a hearing? If he doesn't, I'm closing the argument. And please vote. With 114 votes in favour and one vote with abstention, I find that this decision has been made. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u931	Thank you very much. The following report is on the suspension of the term of office of representative Ivan Vrdoljak and the termination of the post of deputy deputy representative Marijana Zivko. The mandate-immunity committee has reached a unanimous decision on the suspension of the term of office of representative and the termination of the office of deputy deputy representative. On 30 January 2016, the term of office of representative Ivan Vrdoljak ceases and the deputy deputy representative's office ceases to act by Marijana Zivko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u932	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. And I'm making a motion to vote. 116 votes for, 1 vote abstention. I find that we have adopted this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u933	And the latest proposal is the Report on the suspension of MP Ante Kotromanovic's term of office and the start of the stay of Ante Kotromanovic's parliamentary mandate. Namely, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed Ante Kotromanović's request to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the appointment of a parliamentary mandate to rest on the basis of Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament with the date on which it determines the suspension of the term of office under Article 13 of the Act. The Commission has established that the stay of Anti-Cotromanovic's parliamentary mandate began on 28 December 2015 because of the incompatibility of the duties set out in Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and that the parliamentary duties of deputy MPs began to act on the same day as Davor Penic. How Ante Kotromanović is in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament submitted a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal period laid down that the conditions laid down by law were met and the rest of the term of office ended on the 8th day following the day of the application. Therefore, the Mandate-Immunity Commission has reached a unanimous decision on the suspension of the term of office and the commencement of the term of office of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u934	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am concluding the debate and voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I now conclude that with 116 votes in favour and one abstention, we have adopted this proposal by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u935	I think we're all gathered together, so we're going to move on to today's session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS]] First, we would like to hear the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so I would like to ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mrs Margaret Mađeric, to submit the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u936	Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament at the 4th session held on 3 February 2016 discussed the written request of MP Million Brkic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that he was putting his representative mandate to rest on the basis of Article 14. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on 31 January 2016. The Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 42(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated as the deputy representative of Leon Zulj. The Commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of the representative's mandate as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Leon Zulj. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9(2) and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make the next decision on the rest of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 31 January 2016, MP Miljan Brkic's term of office began to rest. In accordance with Article 9(2), Leon Žulj shall be represented by the deputy representative. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u937	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm asking him to stay where he is and I'm opening a debate on this report. I don't see anyone. I'm closing the debate. Please determine the quorum. Can we see how many of us there are? So, 125 of us are here. Thank you very much, so we have a quorum. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 126, 124 for, 1 abstention and 1 against. Thank you very much. I find that most votes have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Now let's go to the next one. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Ms Margaret Mađeric, to submit a report on the next representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u938	Thank you very much. Also at the 4th session, held on 3 February 2016, we discussed a statement, resignations of MP Davor Milicevic addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament by act of 2 February 2016. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time to which he was elected should he resign. The commission found that Davor Milicevic began acting as deputy deputy representative on 28 December 2015 instead of elected representative, Bozo Galic. The Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 42(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Davor Vlaovic as deputy representative of Bozi Galic. The commission found that the resignation of the agent Davor Milicevic and the conditions for the start of acting as deputy representative of Davor Vlaovic were laid down by law. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of legislators in the Croatian Parliament and Articles 10, 9 and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a decision on the termination of the deputy deputy representative's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Davor Milicevic shall be suspended on the day on which the decision on termination is taken by the Assembly, Davor Vlaovic, acting as deputy representative in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u939	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and open a debate on this report. There's no one to answer. I'm closing the debate. We've already established the quorum. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. I'm closing the vote. Of 127 MPs 126 votes for, 1 abstention. I therefore find that most votes have been decided by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I now ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Ms Margaret Mađeric, to submit a report on the third representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u940	Thank you very much. At its 5th session, the Mandate-Immunity Commission discussed the written request of Mr Bozidar Kalmeta, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that he had put his representative mandate in a standstill on the basis of Article 14. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on 4 February 2016 The Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 42(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been set as deputy representative Marijan Kustic. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of the representative's term of office as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Marijan Kustic, as well. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9(2) and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a decision on the rest of the representative's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative. Namely, on 4 February 2016, the rest of the parliamentary mandate of Representative Bozidar Kalmeta began. Ms Marijan Kustic, acting as deputy representative in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to behave on 5 February 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u941	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate on this issue. There's no argument. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. I'm closing the vote. Of 129 MPs 128 votes for, 1 abstention. I therefore find that most votes have been decided by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we have made these decisions, we move on to swearing an oath of newly elected members of the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been found to read the text of the oath, and after that I would individually call the MPs and the appointed representative will stand up and say the word "I swear". I will read the text of the oath: "I swear by my honor that I will exercise consciously and responsibly in my work the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." I'd like to ask Mr. Leon Zulj first.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u942	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u943	Thank you. Mr. Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u944	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u945	Thank you. And Mr. Marian Kustic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u946	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u947	Congratulations to the MPs on their sworn oath! . I wish them success in carrying out this honorable and responsible duties of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] So first we'll have a report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Ms Margaret Mađeric, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u949	Thank you very much, Mr. President, MPs and MPs. Namely, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament at its 6th session held on 17 February 2016 discussed and discussed the request for damages as subsidiary prosecutor Darko Antolic from Zagreb to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Ranko Ostojić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence of an agreement on the initiation of a criminal offence referred to in Article 327(1). The Penal Code of Criminal Crime of the Criminal Association referred to in Article 328, paragraph 1. Penal Code, criminal offence in the composition of the criminal association referred to in Article 329(1). Penalty, criminal offences of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(1) and (2) In the event of an infringement of equality referred to in point (a) of Article 125(1) of the Code and the criminal offence of an infringement of equality referred to in Article 125(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the competent authority of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council shall inform the European Parliament and of the Council of the other Member States of the other Party of the other Party of the other Party of the other Party of the other Party. The Penal Code is based on Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously made a decision proposed by the Croatian Parliament. During the term of the term of office, authorisation for the initiation and conduct of criminal proceedings against Agent Rank Ostojić shall be denied at the request of the damageor as the subsidiary prosecutor Darko Antolic of Zagreb in the case at the County Court of Zagreb for the criminal offences of the agreement to take place in the criminal offence referred to in Article 327(1). Penal Code, criminal offences of the criminal association referred to in Article 328, paragraph 1. Penal Code, criminal offence in the composition of the criminal association referred to in Article 329(1). Penalty, criminal offences of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(1) and (2) In the event of an infringement of equality referred to in point (a) of Article 125(1) of the Code and the criminal offence of an infringement of equality referred to in Article 125(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the competent authority of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council shall inform the European Parliament and of the Council of the other Member States of the other Party of the other Party of the other Party of the other Party of the other Party. Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u950	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate about it. There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. Please first check the quorum as many of us as there are, press any shots. So 114 of us, there's enough of us. I therefore vote on the proposal for a Decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 112 for, 2 abstentions, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u951	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Also at its 6th session, the Mandate-Immunity Commission discussed the request of the damage to Joza Ostojic, a subsidiary prosecutor from Dubrovnik, to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Mare Kristic of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament for the crime against personal freedom, the threat referred to in Article 129(3). Criminal law in connection with Article 38 of the same law. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of 12 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall, unanimously, propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following decision: during the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against the representative, Mara Krisic, at the request of the damagees as the subsidiary prosecutor, Joza Ostojić of Dubrovnik, in a case conducted at the Municipal Court in Dubrovnik for a criminal offence against personal freedom, the threat referred to in Article 129(3). Criminal law in connection with Article 38 of the same law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u952	I thank the president. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. The vote is over. 116 for, 1 abstention. I find that most votes have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And the next one, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u953	Thank you, Mr. President. The Mandate-Immunity Commission also discussed at its 6th session the request of the Municipal Court in Vukovar sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Steve Culei of MPs in the Croatian Assembly for criminal offences against public order, causing the riots referred to in Articles 324(1) and 2. Penalty law. Without discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall unanimously propose a decision: authorisation shall be granted for the conduct of criminal proceedings against counsel Steve Culei at the request of the General Court in Vukovar for criminal offences against public order, causing the riots referred to in Articles 1 and 2. Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u954	I thank the president of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. The vote is over. 97 votes for, 13 abstentions and 5 against. I find that most votes have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. We move to the Report on the Mandate-Immunity Commission and ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Ms Margaret Mađeric, to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u956	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The term of office of the Croatian Parliament at the 7th session held on 24 February 2016 discussed the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb by means of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia from 18 February 2016 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1) and Article 120(1) in conjunction with Article 28. Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. The mandate-immunity committee shall unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following decision: An authorisation shall be granted for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Glavas at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia as of 18 February 2016 for the criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1) and Article 120(1) in conjunction with Article 28(1). The basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia, which has been effectively and legally described in the judgment of the County Court in Zagreb since 7 May 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u957	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. The debate was attended by the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Rules of Procedure extend speech time in five minutes. I suggest we give him that if you all agree. No one is particularly opposed to seeing, therefore, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u958	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you colleagues and colleagues for letting me break the ten-minute deadline. I won't be long. I'd like to speak with a few words. And today, when the public persistently imposes on the topic of the lustration of communist personnel, allow me to use that thesis in this address, but in something in reverse the usual context. I am the victim of reverse lustration, lustration of defenders and all those headed by Dr Franjo Tudjman, who are the symbol of the creation of the Croatian state. The defenders were lustrated under quotes so that they were driven into pensions and socially marginalised, Satanised and criminalised by the Croatian president, Generals Markac, Gotovina, Đuro Brodaraca and other generals and high-ranking officers in The Hague. And what has been done to me is not a judicial process, but a process of lustration of politically inappropriate personnel. Unlike many Croatian citizens, I am fortunate to be able to address the public from the constituencies and point to the nadaladic anomalies that we are witnessing in the Croatian state. I say, I am fortunate to speak from a place where he will hear me better, from a place where I came to the voices of the citizens of eastern Croatia. But after 10 years of court proceedings and more than five years after the prisons of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, happiness is a relatively relative term for me. But I survived. I have survived and thanked those who have supported me and I am telling everyone that I will not give up proving my innocence. I will not give up because of my fate, because of my role in the Homeland War, because of all those with whom I shared the days of great Serbian aggression on Croatia. I'm not even going to give up because of the victims who were killed in those troubled times of madness because someone wanted to. I said 10 years ago, and I repeat today, I didn't kill anyone or order the murders or cover up the murders. And the victims of justice didn't get, they didn't because the names of their executioners are in 13,000 pages of my court file, only no one wanted to read them, investigate and prosecute them because the goal was not to enlighten crimes that had happened unquestionably, but to eliminate me as a person and as a politician who has acted publicly for more than 25 years. Crimes in certain parts of Croatia, including Osijek for years could be read in the texts of different media, but only after my breakup with the HDZ then tops the then ruling party with listeners from police, secret services and the DORH decides to attribute some of these crimes to me. During the night, I was a visionary who beat me up by Ivo Sanader and became a war criminal. Back in 2005, Mr. Sanader, then Croatian prime minister in his cabinet, gathered his closest associates, and said to them: "Heads should be eliminated, there is no dilemma and there is no doubt only a question to be attributed to him by crimes." Most were more inclined to bind to my name economic crime, because they felt that the war crimes charge in part of the people, particularly the defenders and the population, who, along with me, survived the Serbian aggression against Osijek and eastern Croatia, could have a counterproductive effect. Yet, these same ones decide to attribute to me the terrible crimes I had nothing to do with. I was naive back then. Ten years later today, I wonder how much I felt with so much conviction that it was impossible to attribute to someone a crime that had nothing to do with it. It's another confirmation that in history books, we still can't learn life. Our own experience has made us aware that such brutal dealings with political enemies occur in the 21st century under the same pattern as in 1948 or in the further past. Ivo Sanader publicly said on 20 April 2005 at my breakup and goodbye with HDZ that day at 1600 hours, quote: "Branimir Glavas no longer exists today.", finished quote. But there's me, and there's him. And today there are not a small number and those sitting on my left side of this assembly who are living witnesses of that time and who have been silently watching what is happening to me. Those who were supposed to be lustrated "lustrated" me, under quotes. I was wrongly sentenced to two processes, Colloquial, and I'd say "Garage" and "Slotep". In the case of "Garage" or as the Constitutional Court calls it "The Summer of '91." I was convicted on the basis of a false statement by Krunoslav Fehir, actually based on six different statements from him that he adapted to the needs of the prosecution or the State's Attorney's office. For the very procedural reasons, Fehir, who confessed to involvement in the killings, even on public television on Alexander Stankovic's "Sunday at 2" show, could not get the status of a crown witness. In Croatia, however, the judiciary apparently follows that the thesis of Joseph Broz "You should not stick to the law as a drunk float." So for the purpose of assembling the process against me, more innocent people are given forgiveness and the status of the so-called. A crown witness. Later on, the killer will also receive an apartment at the proposal of former Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor and I will have free accommodation on the state's cost in Croatia and BiH. In the case of "Peace" or what the Constitutional Court called "Winter 1991" I was convicted on the basis of the testimony of some alleged my secretary who was never. They named this unfortunate woman my secretary, who I allegedly left the papers with the names of the people to be liquidated. A technical part of the work to mount the process against me has been done by the combined forces of professionals Bajic and Faber, with the plenty of support of SOA and politics. Professional Faber has engaged so much that he has personally been offering Croatian prisoners the most difficult criminals, for example, in the Gospić prison of convenience but has had to falsely charge me for counterservices. Such witnesses also participated in the investigation phase of the proceedings, the investigation phase and the main debate phase. Fabera professional sister Gordana Getoš Magdic secretly and tonically recorded in Zagreb's Branimir shopping centre when he admitted that Magdićki had offered benefits only to point at me as a criminal employer. However, although it was the crown of all Faber affairs, all Croatian media wrote about it in late December 2007 and early January 2008. But nothing happens to anyone. Faber is not sanctioned but was awarded in 2009 by then Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and appointed no less than the director of the Croatian Police. The HDZ summit at the time didn't regret taxpayers' money to reach the goal, my political elimination. They were paid months and years of listening, secret escorts, buying potential witnesses of time because these witnesses had no idea of the events themselves with money and conveniences and different jobs. For example, so-called protected witness 06 otherwise Ivica... I say so-called. A witness because he was found not to have been present at the time of my burden and he testified about them, was employed by Prime Minister Sanader's personal intervention and then by the Minister of Police Kirin first at the Ministry of Defence and then at the Zagreb company Dalekovod. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about dates, the time beginning of summer 2005. So, at the time of the launch of the investigative phase and the realization of the mounted political process as early as 2005 after my dissension with HDZ. Perhaps someone will say that by revealing the identity of a protected witness, I have committed a criminal offence, so this time I remind him that in accordance with Article 76. The Constitution cannot be called upon for criminal responsibility, detention or punishment for an opinion expressed in the Croatian Parliament. Because that is my opinion formed on the basis of the facts that I have unequivocally and unquestionably. NGOs, which are also heavily funded from the state budget, have been placed in the role of the HDZ then. Their mouths were full of stories about the protection of their victims, and none of them bothered to follow trial, evidence, or read the file. And I personally talked to Mr. Zoran Pusic, who used every opportunity to talk publicly about the criminal Branimir Glavas, did not know at all who the victims were or what I was judged to be. So I delivered him the subject complete to study it, but he never gave himself time to study it. Although he promised to work hard and study the subject. But that's why he could shout loud enough what the ruling party then wants to hear, and that's that Glavas is guilty and there's no dilemma. And so did the other so-called so-called. True lovers, different Sarnake and Terselićka and others, and in return, Sanader gave them a hat and a hand to give state money to act for their so-called so-called. NGOs. But 10 years of life and all the dirt that I have done is impossible to list in these 10 or 15 minutes of my address to you and the Croatian public. I want my parliamentary immunity removed, I want the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to make a decision in my case because I have been waiting too long for justice. And whatever verdict it will be, I will not give up the legal battle and my struggle to prove the truth. If I do not welcome justice in Croatia and in front of the Croatian judiciary, I will address international judicial institutions. However, I hope that the Croatian judiciary will evaluate because it is abnormal for anyone in a regulated democratic state that we want to show ourselves to experience what I am experiencing. I remind you, awaiting the Constitutional Court's decision, which must be passed within a year, I served almost two-thirds of my prison sentence, or my constitutional suit has become a precedent. It was solved only after four years and four months of my stay in prison. And I'm gonna end up the way I started with the lustration theme. When one of the employees of the former Yugoslavia's State Security Service, so one of those most likely to be lustrated, showed me how they're burdening me, he replied, quote: "Branimers this indictment as if the UDBA were building up for you, you can't defend yourself against such structures, and your country will judge you without any process because you're politically insinuating.". Those who are interested in who told me this, and today you mentioned this man several times, I will satisfy their curiosity. It was Joseph Perkovic himself. And I conclude, when we did not lustrate them as it was done in other European democratic states after the fall of communism in the early 1990s, they lustrated us. Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much. Do your job that the Rules of Procedure and the Law tell you to do, and you will help me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u959	Thank you. We have one more, the debate was also attended by distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u960	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's not about me personally in this wheel, in this case. Why did I answer that? I want to take advantage of my own capacity to speak individually for 10 minutes and I won't break my time. This is the new meeting of the Croatian Parliament, I have held in the previous session the duties of the president of the HDSSB Club and as a lawyer, as a person who has been a member of the National Judicial Council since 2009, this is my third term of office of the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, and also a member of the State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Council, which I am particularly concerned with what I found out there and I will not mention the names because it would not be right for the people who told me. Our courts of the Republic of Croatia, although we have completed the process of entering the European Union, the most difficult chapter, Chapter 23, is the law and the question of the judiciary which is still under the supervision of the institutions and bodies of the European Union. I think we are in a great distance between what this High House is doing and how the Croatian judiciary works. A fellow lawyer will understand me best. Speaking here in the last term, we are often representatives of the HDSB Club and parties considered representatives of the war criminal party, so I answered. Because first of all, I'm not a fool, I've finished college with my knowledge and my work and I've been through a lot of professional and professional jobs in the Parliament that were about our country's entry into the European Union. What happened in the particular case of Mr Glavas but also in many other cases before the European Court of Human Rights, and especially in view of our commitment to Article 8. The Convention and that is the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms. She tried to settle with Mr. Glavas what he refused, refused to take money from his country because our country broke the deadline within which he had to decide on his case within a reasonable period of time. He refused and said symbolically that he would take 1 euro from the Croatian state because he needs nothing. What concerns is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which in this case was not respected but also in the case of many of our people who have found themselves in front of the Croatian judiciary. The deadline for his subject was a year, resolved after 4 years and 4 months and in part. And that you have insight, and many of our members and people who voted for us have called and asked why Branimir Glavas is being removed for the fifth time in the Croatian Parliament and what it means for him even though we said we would vote for it, that this is what the Croatian Parliament and colleagues from the board have to do. What concerns and is not clear, the Constitutional Court made a decision a month before the deadline on two-thirds of the suspended sentence, which Mr. Head of the Republic of Croatia would be a free man, gradually returned to the retrial of the Supreme Court which since last year, since the Constitutional Court's decision has not yet said anything about the case. What worries me is that I am particularly concerned as a representative of this High House is that our country pays a number of damages to people who have been violated the right to freedom guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is guaranteed by our country for which many have fought, gave their lives, and so are those who are unfortunately not with us today. We fought for this country, to become a member of the European Union, and that all our citizens, people before the law, are equal. That's not what happened in this case. Coming to Croatia, first of all by the Constitutional Court's decision, he was arrested again and returned to the investigative prison. And what concerns me are our procedural laws, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Penal Code. Is it normal for a person who has endured almost two-thirds of the sentence to be returned on the basis of our court's decision, the highest body, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to be reinstated after 5.5 years of imprisonment due to allegations of possible influence or possible escape from the country and man returned to his country after the Constitutional Court's decision? Why did I answer that? I want to tell you fellow Parliamentarians, the ruling coalition of you who have called in pre-election campaigns for reforms, our system of justice that has been shaken up and making decisions timed following a policy, where the State's Attorney is acting on the one where something needs to be taken out of the drawer, when election campaigns, when secret statements end in the media, when the evidence goes down in the proceedings, when people are convicted and found guilty before they even sit in the courtroom, and we say that everyone is innocent until a judicial verdict proves guilty. Mr. Glavas is innocent, for his judgment is not a power of attorney. And we are not representatives of the war criminal party but of the man who participated in the defense of our city of Osijek, eastern Croatia and who together with the late President Franjo Tudjman created the Croatian state. I answered because in my last session, I was often standing down as club president and I got all kinds of epithets as a representative of a war criminal's party, that I don't know what law and justice is, that I don't think with my own head. Often, some MPs of this House who personally did not submit to Mr Glavas influenced the court by having press conferences, sharing certain materials that reminded them of judgments, it was not an influence on the judiciary, and we when we said that we should respect the Constitution and wait for a final verdict were considered a party of war criminals. To you, High House, fellow MPs and MPs, there is nothing left but to remove Mr. Glavas' immunity five times. My speech today and the address to you together is that people who enter Croatian courts are not declared guilty in advance, that we pass laws that won't be cavalier, that won't bring people back to prison after they've endured sentences, that won't put people in jail for political persecution and various settings when someone doesn't answer politically no matter who they're dealing with. I believe that our EU member country has been ten years of negotiating difficult and painful efforts to justify chapter 23 the face of our country, the country fought by the late Franjo Tudjman, fought by many Croatian defenders and many Croatian governments and honorable people among you. I call upon you not to embarrass our country in the time ahead, that our poor country does not pay compensation to people for the fact that, at a time specified by law, our courts do not give them judgments and that we take away from those people who are honest, open and free to defend their country, to protect what is our fundamental right, and that is the right to freedom. However the Supreme Court decides in any procedure, even in the case of Mr. Glavas, I hope that those who are innocent and whom this is set up, which is primarily he will no longer have the inconvenience that those who know what has happened, and I have heard from some of the judges who are retired, and from the Supreme Court, that the country for whom they have defended honorably, proudly has their defenders and people who have both their lives, but also their dignity and pride have given for this House, for this country and for what is before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u961	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate and I am voting on the motion for a decision as proposed by the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the 93 votes in favour of, 3 abstentions, 4 against decisions made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Now, I'd like to move on to the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Ms Margaret Mađeric, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u963	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament at the 8th session held on 26 February 2016 discussed the request of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Požega from 11 February 2016 sent by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia from 23 February 2016 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Stjepan Pintarić of representatives in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence of the traffic accident in road transport referred to in Articles 1, 2 and 5. Penalty law. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of 12 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of the following decision: An authorisation shall be granted for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Agent Stjepan Pintarić, at the request of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Požega from 11 February 2016, was sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia on 23 February 2016 to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Stjepan Pintarić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence of the cause of road traffic accident referred to in Article 227(1), (2) and (5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The penal code is factually and legally described in the sentence of the municipal state attorney's office in Požega.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u964	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. The vote is over. 102 for four abstentions. I find that most votes have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The next item is about committees and we must first select the president, vice-president and members of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. In accordance with the inter-party agreement, a proposal for the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs has been submitted. For the purposes of this Article, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been established that the Committee for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs has a president, a vice-president and 11 members. In accordance with the inter-party agreement, we have a proposal like this for now. Mr Franjo Lucic is elected president of the selection, appointment and administrative committee, Mr Franjo Lucic, members of the Committee for Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, Angelko Strac, Ivan Šipić, Blaženko Boban, Ivica Misic, Ružica Vukovac and Pero Ćorić. Of course the others will be selected...... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u966	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, obviously there was a mix-up. The representatives of SDP and HNS clubs had to submit a proposal to their members for the Committee of Selection and appointments to the President of the Assembly because the Committee on Selection and Designation was not formed. And that's why I, my colleagues and colleagues, suggest that these colleagues who are up there suggest that we practically pronounce them board members, that the board can work because there's obviously been a technical error. If you agree to vote so... Do you have any names to suggest them? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, so suggest, read them. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u967	Okay. Well, then it's not very strict on the Rules of Procedure, but of course We'll do it because there's obviously been a mistake. [[Intruder Shucker: Because there was an error.]] Obviously, there's been a mistake, so we're not going to vaccinate in the procedure. [[Shucker: You must propose this as clubs to the President of the Parliament and this second all goes through the Selection and Appoint Committee.]] Can you give us names now? Here, I'll ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u968	No, no, I'll make a suggestion even though we've sent it through the manual to you, to the President of the Croatian Parliament. You'll see when the document comes for all the members of the working bodies, so we've instructed everything. So, for Vice-President Tomislav Končevski and members of Nenad Stazic, Mario Habek, Ana Komparić Devčić and Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u969	Okay. So now we've heard the rest of the committee's proposed members, or vice president. I'm opening a debate on the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u970	Mr. President of the Croatian I think my colleague Dragovan forgot to mention something. In accordance with the inter-party agreement, colleagues from the SDP and the HNS were told to be their members who were members of the government and who... that I may propose them, that then the Board of Elections and Appointings indicate that their membership in the Committee begins on the 30th, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we have to make a record of it, so it doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u971	Of course, of course. Those to whom the 30th term begins on Saturday can only then, of course, give the oath afterwards and after that, their mandate begins. That's pretty clear. I am therefore opening a debate on this proposal, which is thus united by this note, which we have made clear. There's no need to argue. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on, therefore, a united proposal to elect a president, vice-president and members of the Committee on Elections, Appoint and Administrative Affairs. Please quorum. So we have a quorum. Please vote now. All lies artis. The vote is over. So from 137, 136 votes to, 1 abstention. I therefore find that most votes accept the proposal. I congratulate the President, the Vice-President and members of the Committee on Elections and Appointments and invite them to hold a session of the Committee immediately to prepare a proposal for decisions to elect the President, Vice-President and members of the other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. This session of the Committee will be held immediately at the Janko Draskovic Hall, room 202 as everything is agreed, only to avoid such a fol fall. I'm giving a 10-minute break just. I'm asking you for 10 minutes because it should all be arranged. It's 2400 hours. Here's a colleague and a colleague, please take your seats so we can do this last item successfully. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:25 A.M.]] Please, can we get started? Here I am asking the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of Mr Franjo Lucic to submit a report. I suggest that for the sake of economics, the board president read all the names and that we unite and discuss and vote, not individually if you agree? Is that what you're up for? Okay, fine. Here you go, Mr. Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u973	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all together. If you allow, I will do the same as my predecessor in a brief procedure to read the names and last names of certain people appointed to committees. I also want to inform you here, as we have said here at the very beginning, that certain committees are not complete because some representatives in the Croatian Parliament have a certain stay for a few more days and we will definitely appoint them at the first session of the Parliament. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament are elected President Robert Podolnjak, Vice-President Peđa Grbin. For members Davorin Mlakar, Dražan Bošnjaković, Zarko Tušek, Davor Miličević, Dr. Goran Marić, Ermina Lekai Prlaskaj, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Josip Leko and others. Milorad Pupovac. In the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Dražan Bošnjaković, for members Davorin Mlakar, Željko Fiolić, Dr. Goran Marić, Ivan Šipić, Ante Sanader, Davor Milicevic, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Josip Leko, Pedja Grbin. In the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Gordan Jandroković, Vice-President Josip Bilaver, for members of Dr. Goran Marić, Drazen Bošnjaković, Sandra Jakelić, Ladislav Ilčić, Franjo Lucić, Robert Podolnjak, Ivan Tepeš, Tanja Vrbat Grgić, Peđa Grbin, dr. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. In the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Davorin Mlakar, for members of Dr. Miroslav Tudjman, Gordan Jandroković, Jasen Mesic, Bozo Ljubic, Josip Katalinić, Ivan Tepeš, Tanja Vrbat Grgić, Damir Mateljan, etc. Milorad Pupovac. In the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected Vice-President Dr. Miroslav Tudjman, for members Miljan Brkić, Tomislav Culjak, Damir Krstičević, Dario Hrebak, Ermina Lekaj Prljaskaj, Ines Strenja-Linić, Gordana Sobol, Igor Dragovan, Goran Beus Richembergh and Mr. Joseph Salapic. In the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Igor Dragovan, Vice-President Josip Djakić, members of Pero Ćorić, Stevo Culej, Damir Krstičević, Željko Dilber, Miodrag Demo, Ines Strenja-Linić, Tanja Vrbat Grgić and Zdravko Ronko. In the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected president of Dr. Goran Marić, Vice-President Dragica Zgrebec, for members Ivan Šuker, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Andrija Mikulić, Stjepan Pintarić, Branko Hrg, Ivan Lovrinović, Bozica Makar, Shandor Juhas. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament is elected president Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Vice President Ivo Jelusic, members of Pero Ćosic, Ivan Šuker, Zarko Tušek, Josip Borić, Miroslav Šimić, Ivan Lovrinović, Radimir Cacic. The Board of Tourism of the Croatian Parliament is elected Vice President Miroslav Šimić, members Josip Borić, Bozidar Kalmeta, Marija Budimir, Ante Župan, Petar Škorić, Josipa Rimac, Sabina Glasovac, Mario Habek, Ivan Klarin, Marija Puh and Nansi Tyreli. In the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Furio Radin, for members Angelko Stracak, Drazen Barišić, Ivan Radić, Vladimir Bilek, Ermina Lekaj Prljaskaj, Mirko Rasković, Marko Sladoljev, Domagoj Hajduković, Jaroslav Pecnik, Shandor Juhas, Veljko Kajtazi, Mile Horvat, etc. Milorad Pupovac. The Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament is elected Vice-President Davor Milicevic, members Ivan Šipić, Stevo Culej, Josip Djakić, Željko Fiolić, Juro Martinović, Darinko Kosor, Pedja Grbin, Josip Leko, Stipe Petrina, Nada Turina-Đurić and Mr. Joseph Salapic. In the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected Vice-President Milivo Spika, for members Nada Murganić, Drazen Barišić, Ante Sanader, Marija Budimir, Ljubica Maksimčuk, Maro Christić, Gordana Sobol, Dragica Zgrebec, Štefanija Damjanović, Silvano Hrelja, Nancy Tyreli. In the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected president of Ines Strenja-Linić, for members Darko Milinović, Bozo Ljubic, Lucian Vukelić, Goran Dodig, Ivan Kirin, Marko Sladoljev, Ana Komaraić Devčić, Davor Penić, Štefanija Damjanović, Marija Ilic. In the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected Vice President Ladislav Ilčić, for members Nada Murganić, Darko Milinović, Sanja Putica, Sandra Perković, Mario Klobučić, Ivica Misic, Dr. Željko Jovanovic, Ana Comparić Devčić, Tomislav Žagar and Dr. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. In the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, Croatian Parliament is elected President Bozo Ljubic, Vice President Jaroslav Pecnik, members Miljan Brkić, Željko Glasović, Ivan Šuker, Željko Dilber, Ivan Tepeš, Ivica Misić, Ivo Jelušić, Domagoj Hajduković, Tomislav Žagar. In the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Miodrag Demo, Vice-President Stipe Petrin, members of Željko Glasnović, Josip Djakić, Željko Dilber, Stevo Culej, Ivan Kirin, Miro Bulj, Zdravko Ronko. In the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected Vice-President Branko Bačić, members of Pero Ćosić, Antun Vidaković, Andrija Mikulić, Ivan Radić, Jasna Matulić, Josip Križanić, Vedran Babić, Zdravko Ronko, Zoran Vasić and Ivo Jelušić. The Committee for Environment and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament is elected Vice-President Ljubica Ambrusec, for members Branko Bačić, Drazen Barišić, Pero Ćosić, Angelko Stricak, Ante Sanader, Josip Katalinić, Davor Penić, Zoran Vasić, Marija Puh, Nansi Tyreli. In the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected president Dr. Gordana Rusak, Vice President Sabina Vosovac, for the members of Dr. Miroslav Tudjman, Miro Totgergeli, Sanja Putica, Ladislav Ilčić, Goran Dodig, Mario Klobučić, Dr. Željko Jovanovic, Dr. Rajko Ostojić, Jaroslav Pecnik and Shandor Juhas. In the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected president Branko Hrg, members Josip Križanić, Franjo Lucić, Ivan Anušić, Damir Felak, Vladimir Bilek, Ljubica Ambrusec, Zoran Vasić, Damir Tomić, Giovanni Sponza, Milorad Batinić, Mile Horvat. In the Committee on Regional Development and Funds of the European Union, the Croatian Parliament is elected President Jasna Matulić, Vice-President Damir Mateljan, members Ivan Anušić, Mirko Raskovic, Josipa Rimac, Ante Zupan, Josip Borić, Maro Kristic, Dr. Rajko Ostojić, Milorad Batinić, Tomislav Koncevski, Radimir Cacic. In the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Pero Ćosić, Vice President Vedran Babić, for members Branko Bačić, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Petar Škorić, Bozidar Kalmeta, Ivan Kovačić, Miro Bulj, Darko Parić, Tomislav Žagar, Nada Turina-Đurić, Silvano Hrelja. In the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Zdravko Ronko, Vice President Zarko Tušek, members of Pero Ćorić, Blaženko Boban, Damir Felak, Stjepan Pintarić, Ivan Radić, Antun Vidaković, Mario Habek, Damir Tomić. The Committee for Interparliamentary Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament is elected Vice-President Tomislav Culjak. In the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Andrija Mikulić, Vice-President Nenad Stazić, for members Jasen Mesic, Ljubica Maksimčuk, Zarko Tušek, Josip Katalinić, Mario Klobučić, Darinko Kosor, Darko Parić, Damir Tomić, Davor Bernardić, Goran Beus Richembergh, Veljko Kajtazi. In the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected president of Gordan Sobol, Vice-President Sanja Putica, for members of Margaret Mađerić, Ljubica Maksimčuk, Marija Budimir, Sandra Jakelic, Dr. Gordana Rusak, Ljubica Ambrusec, Ana Komaraić Devčić, Sabina Glasovac, Sandra Krpan, Marija Puh. In the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Tulio Demetlik, Vice President Vladimir Bilek, members Josip Križanić, Blaženko Boban, Bozidar Kalmeta, Josipa Rimac, Antun Vidaković, Branko Hrg, Damir Mateljan, Ivan Klarin, Milorad Batinić. In the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, the MPs are elected Vice-President Ivan Anušić, as member of Tomislav Culjak. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation is electing members of Petar Škorić, Margareta Madđeric, as deputy member of Josip Bilaver. In the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, they are named as the leader of Damir Krsticevic, members of Zeljko Glasnović and others. Miroslav Tudjman. In the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, they are named as the leader Jasen Mesic, as members of Gordan Jandroković, Sandra Jakelic, deputy members Josip Bilaver and Josipa Rimac. Your members from the HNS as I said at the beginning and SDP were not delivered for reasons as I said at the beginning and at the first session of the Croatian Parliament will be appointed. Because those candidates you've delivered are just candidates who are at a standstill, so that's what we've got, we haven't got anything else but good what's in the final and problem. At the first session, they will be appointed as we had a problem for board members, and so we have a problem with these gentlemen. Therefore, at the first session, we will appoint all those who have not just been delivered and who could not be included in the committees. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the first session of the Parliament, or we will agree on what day it will be, will be appointed and thus nothing will happen in the meantime. Thank you very much. And I'll just say that in the first session of the board just unanimously they accepted all these suggestions and all this I said was going to be subsequently included. Thank you very much, and I'll see you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u974	Dear fellow Sobol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u975	Thank you. So I understand, of course, and we accept that those members who have been proposed and have not formally become MPs yet, but it becomes only the 30th that they are not now appointed. However, what we have seen in the National Council for the fight against corruption, we have put forward a proposal for the President of the Council, from the ranks of the current deputies. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But we made a proposal for a colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, and I don't know why it hasn't been read yet. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's not about those who were in the government and who in 8 days are being activated by the mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u976	No, no, it's clear, it's only clear to who and when the proposal is sent.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u977	Well, now we are, because we have agreed and we have given you in the whole of that proposal was among other things a proposal for the National Council for Combating Corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u978	Here, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u979	Mr. President, I suggest that if members of the Selection Committee agree that we decide that Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic is president. ... So make a suggestion for the good Lord, so what are you waiting for? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u980	The same applies to the delegation to the Council of Europe and NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u981	Mr. Lucic, colleague Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u982	So look, I don't see what the problem is at all, we've been in contact with the board all afternoon, or HDZ, with all the parties who were supposed to make their proposals, until the very beginning of the session, you didn't deliver. Look, you can't, so I have no reason not to put those suggestions on, but we didn't get it. So I'm asking you to be patient, let's not make any trouble right now, if we got that, we'd definitely put it on. At the first next session, we'll put it all in. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u983	Please, we can handle this. You have a copy of your proposal, come on now, now we'll settle it just give a copy of the proposal then if the proposal is given colleague Beus Richembergh [[Mr. President.]] [[But it's not one man, it's more people. Well, they don't have it prepared.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u984	Mr. President, the problem is that we made all the suggestions. Half of it was read on some committees and half of them didn't, and it actually came together. So it's not about something later delivered.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u985	Look let's go solve the problem, I realize there's a problem, let's go solve it, give a copy of your proposal, we'll vote now. Let's try to solve this without a break. Here you go, fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u986	So, I checked, there's still no proposal for these councils, so we'll give it later. Here, okay. Check.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u987	Well, obviously a suggestion, then I'm asking you nicely yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u988	Since some MPs have been read titles, and some are not asked to read academic titles in the future, please read them to everyone or nobody. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u989	I agree. It's a good practice to do. Dear Representative Sincic would like to say one more thing. Please let's be patient for a few more minutes. My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u990	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I just wanted to warn you that because I haven't been adequately informed about the meeting, I haven't been read in this reading. I hope that this mistake will be corrected in the near future and that the Living Wall will belong to the places that belong to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u991	Okay. Here I am asking you to open this proposal that you have now heard the debate and I hereby conclude the debate and I am giving this proposal, which the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, Mr Franjo Lucic read on the basis of the vote. Please join the vote. Who's in favour of this proposal? The vote is over. 129 present, 127 in, 2 abstentions. So, with most votes, we've taken this decision. Of course, we'll complete it on the first next occasion when we get all the suggestions. I congratulate all the chosen ones. I wish them a lot of success in their work, and the work will begin immediately. I'm only asking for one more second. So, you saw the agenda that you got a week ago. This agenda consists almost exclusively of the report. However, these reports must also be reviewed by the committees. And I beg you, we will continue the plenary session on Wednesday 27th January at 9.30 p.m. I ask you on Tuesday, the board presidents call the committees and look at those reports so we can discuss the reports Wednesday. Thank you very much. I'll see you next Wednesday. Session interrupted at 12:40 p.m. Thank you very much. We would now move to the point - Selection, appointments and resolutions Please ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Mr Franjo Lucic to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u993	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. But before I read all these suggestions, I am asking you, Mr. President, and I also ask you, gentlemen of MPs and MPs, if it is possible that the material is large enough to finally vote on all the proposals. If you agree with that? ... Individually? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] If you're in and I'm in. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament – for members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament: Orsat Milenić and others. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u994	I'm opening a debate on this proposal. There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. I pray the quorum is once again established, and I can see that there's been a lot of chatter, so let's see how many of us are there. Can we get a number? 116, so we have a quorum. Please let us vote on this proposal. So of a total of 124 MPs 120 for, 2 abstentions and 2 against. I find that most of the votes have accepted the proposal. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u995	Next proposal of the Decision on the selection of the Vice-President and members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. Orsat Milenić is elected, members of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee are elected Anka Mrak Taritas and Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u996	I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I close it and put it to the vote. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 123, 122 votes in favour and one abstention, I find the proposal accepted by most votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u997	Proposal for a decision on the selection of vice presidents and members of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. Tomislav Sauch is elected vice-president of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on European Affairs. For members of the Croatian Parliament's European Affairs Committee, Sinisa Varga and Dr Vesna Pusic are elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u998	I'm opening a debate. I suggest you don't read the titles because Dr. Varga is also Dr. Varga. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 124, 119 for, 3 abstentions, 2 against, I find most of the votes the proposal is accepted. Please, next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u999	Proposal for a decision on the selection of vice presidents and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. Josko Klisovic is elected vice-president of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament are elected Tomislav Saucha and Dr Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1000	I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 123, 118 for, 3 abstentions, 2 against, I find most votes accepted. We will now move on to further points. Please, we must vote, we did not vote for colleague Predrag Matic, so please join the vote. Who's in? The vote is over. Of the 119 present 115 is for 2 abstentions, 2 against. Therefore, the majority of votes were accepted by the Committee's proposal. I ask my colleague Lucic to read us the other suggestions so we can vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1002	Next proposal for a Decision on the selection of members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Predrag Matic, Ivan Vrdoljak, is elected as members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1003	I'm opening a debate. She's gone. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. Of the 114 who voted 113 for, 1 abstention. Therefore, most of the votes were accepted by the Committee's proposal. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1004	We further have a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament are selected: Boris Lalovac, Branko Grčić, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1005	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Committee on Elections, Appointation. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 114, 113 is for, 1 abstention. Therefore, most votes are accepted by the Proposal for a Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please make the next suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1006	The next proposal for a decision is on the selection of members of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. For members of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament are selected: Mihael Zmajlović, Joško Klisović, Tihomir Jakovina, Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1007	I'm opening a debate. There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of this committee. Who's in? Please vote. The vote is over. Of 117, 116 for, 1 abstention. I find that most of the votes of the Committee's decisions on selection, appointment and administrative affairs have been accepted. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1008	The next proposal is the Decision on the election of the chairman of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Branko Grcic is elected president of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1009	I'm opening a debate. There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. 120, 116 for, 2 abstentions, 2 against. I find that most of the votes have been decided by the board. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1010	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members, the election of vice-presidents, the selection of members of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, Domagoj Hajduković, is hereby dismissed. Domagoj Hajdukovic is elected vice-president of the Committee for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament is elected Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1011	I'm opening a debate. There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 115, 113 votes for, 2 abstentions. The majority of votes were adopted by the election and appointment committee. Please make the next suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1012	The next proposal is the Proposal for a decision on the election of the chairman of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee. Arsen Bauk is elected president of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1013	I'm opening a debate. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a committee decision. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 117, 112 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 3 against. I find that most of the votes have been decided by the board. Please move forward with the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1014	The next proposal is a decision on the election of the president of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Committee for Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament is elected Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1015	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 114 votes, 113 for, 1 abstention. I find that most of the votes have been decided by the board. I'd like to ask the next committee proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1016	The third proposal is a proposal for a decision on the election of a vice-president and a member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. Siniša Varga is elected vice-president of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1017	We can do it right now for a board member.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1018	Excuse me. Milanka Opačić is elected member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1019	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 118 votes, 115 for, 2 abstentions and 1 against. I find that most of the votes have adopted the decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. I'd like the next proposal from the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1020	The next proposal is Decisions on the selection of the president and member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. Ivan Vrdoljak is elected president of the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament is elected Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1021	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 117 votes, 112 for, 3 abstentions and 2 against. I find that most votes accept the proposal of the Election Committee. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1022	The next proposal is a decision on the selection of members of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia. A member of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of the Croatian Parliament is elected: Arsen Bauk and Darko Parić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1023	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. Of the 17 13 votes in favour, three abstentions and one against. I find that most votes accept the committee's proposal. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1024	The next proposal is a decision on the selection of members of the Croatian War Veterans Committee. Members of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee are selected: Tihomir Jakovina, Nenad Stazić, dr. Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1025	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. Of the 113 votes 102 for, 5 abstentions and 6 against, I find that most votes accept the proposal for a committee decision. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1026	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the president and member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. Ms Anka Mrak Taritas is elected president of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly, and Ivan Sinčić is elected as a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1027	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 119 109 votes for, 10 abstentions. I therefore find that most votes accept the committee's proposal. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1028	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of presidents and members of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. Gordan Maras, a member of the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament, is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1029	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 117 112 votes in five abstentions. I find that most votes accept the committee's proposal. Please move forward with the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1030	The next proposal is a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, Shandor Juhas, for members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, is hereby elected: Veljko Katazi and Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1031	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. ... Here you are, dear representative Furio Radin. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1032	If I may ask why Mr. Juhas is being resolved?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1033	Based on the proposal we received from the board. We didn't do it on our own initiative. So, for all these suggestions, we have a club for appointments as well as for resolutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1034	Because he's the president of our club, so we're worried, so I'm asking you. He signed it?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1035	We'll discuss that next week on the board if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1036	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 106 votes 103 for, 3 abstentions. Therefore, the majority of votes were accepted by the Committee's proposal. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1037	The next proposal is a decision on the election of the Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. Tihomir Jakovina is elected vice-president of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1038	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. Of 116 111 votes for, 3 abstentions and 2 against. I find that most votes accept the committee's proposal. Please move forward with the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1039	The next proposal for a Decision is on the selection of a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament is elected Siniša Hajdas Dončić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1040	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Vote, please. The vote is over. Of 116 115 votes for, 1 abstention. I find that most votes accept the committee's proposal. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1041	The next proposal is a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. An Arsen Bauk is elected member of the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1042	I'm opening a debate. Here's your colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1043	Mr. President, I'd like it to be determined that I was elected to be a member of this committee in the last session, but it's twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1044	If that's okay with you, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1045	That just means they'll confirm you twice, right? Here I am closing the debate and then making another motion for a vote. I'm sure they'll all vote for their colleague, Bauk. I'm closing the vote. 110 for, pardon 107 for, 3 abstentions of 110, therefore most of the votes were chosen by counterpart Bauk. Next proposal from the board please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1046	Next proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. For members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, Orsat Milenić and Ivan Sinčić are elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1047	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. 114 votes for, 3 abstentions, therefore most of the votes were accepted by the Committee's proposal. Please, next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1048	Proposal for a decision to elect the president of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The president of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Parliament is elected Siniša Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1049	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. 114 for, 2 abstentions, the majority of votes were accepted by the Committee's proposal. Next proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1050	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament is elected Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1051	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. 112 votes in, 3 abstentions. I find that most votes accept the committee's proposal. Next proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1052	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Committee for Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. For members of the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament are elected Tihomir Jakovina, Michael Zmajlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1053	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. 110 votes for, 2 abstentions, therefore most of the votes were accepted by the Committee's proposal. Next proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1054	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the Vice-President, the election of members and the termination of the term of office of members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. The Vice-President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament of Gordan Sobol is hereby dismissed. Marija Ilic is elected Vice-President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament are elected Ivan Klarin, Domagoj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1055	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. The vote is over. 117 votes in favour, one abstention. I find that most votes accept the committee's proposal. Next proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1056	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents and members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. Dr Zeljko Jovanovic is elected president of the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy in the ranks of MPs. For members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anticevic-Marinovic, Milorad Batinic, is elected anti-corruption control strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1057	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. The vote is over. 110 votes for, 3 abstentions, 3 against. I find that most votes accept the committee's proposal. Next proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1058	The next proposal for a decision is to appoint a deputy head and member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. As deputy head of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Darko Paric is named. A member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is named Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1059	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. The vote is over. 98 votes for, 12 abstentions and one against. I find that most votes accept the committee's proposal. Next proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1060	Proposal for a decision to appoint members and alternate members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. For members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Nada Turina-Djuric is named. As deputy members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Domagoj Hajdukovic and Orsat Milenic are named.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1061	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. 113 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against. I find that most votes accept the committee's proposal. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1062	And the last proposal for a decision on the selection of leaders and deputy members of the Croatian Parliament delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly in the organisation for European security and co-operation. For the Head of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly and European Security and Cooperation Organisation, Michael Zmajlović, is elected as deputy members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly in the organisation for European security and co-operation are elected Gordan Maras, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1063	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. Of the 110 votes to, 3 abstentions, 1 against, I find that most of the votes are accepted by the Committee's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1064	Finally, the proposals and decisions of the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament were found at the 2nd session held on 5 February 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1065	Thank you very much. We are continuing now with a decision on the proposals for decisions of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. I call on the Vice-President of the Committee of Mr Tomislav Koncevski to explain these proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1067	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Decision and selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is elected Leon Žulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1068	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal. The vote is over. 129 votes to one abstention. I find that most of the votes have adopted the committee's proposal. Please make the next suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1069	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. Davor Vlaović is elected member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1070	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Please vote. The vote is over. 124 votes in favour, 1 abstention. I find that most votes accept the Committee's proposal. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1071	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament is elected Željko Dilber.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1072	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. The vote is over. 129 for one abstention. I find that most votes accept the Committee's proposal. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1073	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Marijan Kustic is elected member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1074	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Committee's proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. 132 votes in favour, 1 abstention. I find that most votes accept the Committee's proposal. Next proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1075	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. A member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia is elected Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1076	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Please vote. The vote is over. 135 votes for, 1 abstention. I find that most votes accept the committee's proposal. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1077	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament is elected Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1078	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Please vote. The vote is over. 120 votes in favour, 1 abstention. I find that most votes accept the committee's proposal. And finally, my last suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1079	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament is elected Marijan Kustic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-01-22-0.u1080	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Please vote. The vote is over. 134 votes in favour, 1 abstention, thus determining that most of the votes were accepted by the Committee's proposal. Before we move on, I'd just like to fill in the esteemed vice president of the board and, you know, that's why, at the same time, we've solved those who were in these places. It is about colleagues Davor Milicevic on two committees, Milan Brkic on two committees, Bozidar Kalmeti on two committees, on three committees. Therefore, they are both resolved. There he is. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the 2nd session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all, good morning! Before we continue our work, please let us pay tribute to the late former representative in two calls and to the vice-president of the Croatian Parliament from 2008 to 2011 to Mr Josip Fristic. - One minute of silence - Thank him and glory and be his easy Croatian land! Here he is, reporting for the word of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec, come in.
