ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7149	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. We're looking for a break on behalf of the club due to the monthly compensation of the parents of the children with Down syndrome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7150	Okay. Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7151	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired Party Representatives Club and the Independent List of Stipe Petrina, I request a 10-minute break to discuss the repeated announcements made by the Minister of Health, Mr. Dari Nakic, on the increase in the policy, the increase in the price of additional health insurance policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7152	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7153	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the National Minority Club of 10 minutes offered by this general joy yesterday's graduation of high school, high school graduates and their perspectives further.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7154	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7155	On behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break. Also Also on the problem of increasing the cost of supplementary insurance. [[Come on, let's let our colleague say it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7156	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Pupovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7157	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDSS and Reformers Club, we are looking for a break of 10 minutes due to dramatic changes in demographic conditions in areas of special state concern and eviction of people over the past few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7158	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7159	Thank you very much, President. On behalf of the HNS Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes. The theme is to announce an increase in supplementary insurance and Down syndrome.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7160	Okay. And a distinguished representative of Strena-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7161	And I'm also asking for a 10-minute break to explain what's actually going on with the suspension of child benefits with Down syndrome.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7162	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Milivo Spik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7163	Same theme as a colleague of the Hrelja's about picking up an extra shelf.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7164	Okay. We will try if you agree and if you allow me to group on topics, because there are obviously two or three topics on which it will be. I'm sorry, Reverend Schooker, but he's small, so I overlooked him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7165	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm asking for a break to be made around this supplementary health insurance and to explain that these breaks will not break the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7166	Okay. Thank you very much. All right, here we go. So we'll have a break. At 9.50, I'll see you back here. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] So let's move in order as colleagues and colleagues reported. On behalf of the HRID Club, the first representative, Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7168	President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I understand that the question of quorum is extremely important and I appreciate the concern but we cannot discuss only the quorum today because there are many and more important issues. My intensity of searching for a break has absolutely nothing to do with the quorum because many people really torture serious existential and life problems. Some of them are current yesterday and the day before yesterday, and they must be spoken of independently with a quorum or no quorum. Unfortunately, some are not so lucky to have healthy children. And such parents have given up a lot of things that most of us can't even imagine. And having a child with special needs or a disabled child with everything additional means still being in money problems. And unfortunately, it has already become a rule for the associations to do a job that should be done by the authorities of the state because the system is not synchronised and the system is not organised, it is not adequately organised. These days we listen to yesterday and yesterday through the media come information from parents who are bitter, and it's about parents of children with down syndrome, that they've been suspended from 1250 kn per month, which they really need from their earliest age. Because that parent care includes daily care, from logos, defecologists, physical therapy, waiting lists on Goljak are longer than a year. And then when those kids finally get their turn, they get one month of therapy. And if the country’s resolution authorities allow for what parents themselves have to pay or at least most what parents have to pay for themselves, then parents shouldn’t need that monthly disability or associations. And we hear, so here's the disputed hanging on those kids he's spending on so-called. The U.S. Department of Unique Art. And what happened? So what happened is that the invalidity awarded by the Social Care Center in that mentioned amount for children with down syndrome who is innate and is not treatable is now taking away that so-called. It's an art institute. And what's this about? How is it possible for one body to derivate the decisions of another body in the same public administration to harm children and without arguments? And I wish the kids could get better from down syndrome, but unfortunately they can't get better from down syndrome. It even says in the medical encyclopedia that down syndrome is a congenital genetic disorder and involves a whole series of other disorders. And then what are the criteria for that so-called. Someone gets taken away by an expert and the other doesn't take away that disability, and they all have the same congenital illness? Parents also say that the ministry and the authorities are repeatedly not responding to their enquiries, and there have been numerous enquiries. And do you know that currently 40,000 people, parents are waiting for that so-called. The artisan? And according to what we've seen from the media so far, parents are indignant and from day to day there will be more and more outcasts of bitter parents in the media and all at the expense of this art. And how do you solve this? So I call on the Resort Ministry to pull one law out of some drawer in which it collects dust, which is the proposal of the Law on Inclusive Adjective, which clearly in this political circus and political asylum is not able to think about these things. So, the resistors take that law out of the drawer, put it in the parliamentary procedure, and then combine it with this art, and 95% of the problem will be solved over this problem, most of the problem. However, the other part of the problem remains, which is the disorientation of the resolute bodies, the collision of the resolute bodies. And it can be solved, you solve it by finally establishing a healthy communication between the three ministries that are important here in this case, health care, social care and pension system. Arrange adequate skill because it's obviously not the present one. And I'm asking you, should every day media release new testimony from bitter parents while someone remembers doing what should be done? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7169	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the HSU Club, the distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7170	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the reason for my announcement is the interview that Minister Nakic gave Monday in Free Dalmatia under the heading "The Health Insurance Policy must be collected but now all insurance companies will receive all patients". Security guards don't receive patients, they have their own insurance. A big interview like this has to be examined and approved in some way by the minister. In a water interview, however, as the state in the budget deficit is not able to pay off its obligations and therefore we decided to increase the price of the supplemental increase by 19 kuna because this is a way to increase the income of health care in order to reduce the loss of the health care system to zero by 2019. First, supplemental health insurance can't be the income of health care, it's the income of supplemental health insurance, and it's not the minister's bank of pigs that can take the money he wants and use it for whatever purposes he wants. In particular, what covers supplementary health insurance is provided for in Articles 16 and 4 and Article 17(5). Mandatory health insurance laws, which are recipes, these are hospital days, and this is participation in certain specialist diagnostic tests. For other purposes, that money cannot be used. What the minister suggests is that those who have paid 70 kunas so far will give them another 19 kuna to pay instead of the state. Is that possible? Does he understand that? They should therefore also pay additional 19 kuna in place of the state in order to settle the deficit that the state has not paid for the needs of supplementary health insurance for these costs provided for by the Mandatory Insurance Act. At the same time, at the same time, private insurance companies offer shelves for 67 kunas not over 65 years old, or if they offer them that price is 150 kuna. So, guys, what are we doing? We break healthy tissue in Croatian health care that only pays bills so what I say is only regularly paid because it is about a system that has money every month, from our salaries or payments citizens arrive every month. So, it's being destroyed for what? To profit privates. And when the minister says he's going to legislate that the insurance company is receiving everything, he can't do it. Health insurance is not regulated by health laws, it is regulated by the Insurance Act, and the competent institution for the Insurance Act is HANFA, not the Minister of Health. Therefore, he claims to do something that is not in his jurisdiction. So, what can I say? In addition to all the nebulos, this is the hardest. I'm asking him to consult someone and not say things like this anymore. Otherwise, I am finally very much in favour of the votes coming from the HDZ, which are about like this, Minister Nakic is on track to fight us with all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I agree with that very much. As for us, the Croatian Party of Retirement Club and our activities related to additional health insurance, I declare that Minister Nakic today has a second yellow card and we will see further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7171	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the National Minorities Club, the Honorable Representative, Shandor Juhas, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7172	Thank you, Mr. President. So yesterday the graduates had forgiveness from high school and in this general joy there was no flour throwing, but they threw flyers where they wrote, which is why they leave Croatia. What's their perspective? Here are some sad, dreary quotes from the portal "I'm not going back to Croatia, I live well here, I have work to do. I used to work mostly as a seasoner at sea, and after that, I couldn't find a job. I think I'm gonna start my family here." Says Nikola, who's in Ireland. "I don't want to go back to Croatia anymore because after a lot of struggles for existence here I finally found a job adequate to my knowledge and abilities." says Nikola from London. "I've worked in several companies, but it's all going down, there's no work, and if there's any pay, then we're doomed to survival. I wouldn't be going back to Croatia if it wasn't for the kids." Says Carmelita from Osijek. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the famous bus from the train station leaves at 3:00 p.m. Drive on the Vukovar-Osjek-Munchen line to Dortmund. There are days when there are four consecutive buses on that line, and on Sundays from Osijek, there are six buses to Germany and so for six months in a row. On average, about 5 hundred people leave eastern Croatia on average, an entire village disappears, an entire village disappears on a weekly basis. They don't have a job, they don't have state support, they don't have apartments, they don't have kids, they move out. According to some projections, Croatia already has less than 4 million inhabitants today. Slavonia and Baranja are dying. Only Kuteva has lost 60 young families since the beginning of this year. In Lug, Baranja, 300 houses 80 are for sale. Villages fail, real estate is offered for nothing. In the White Manastir elementary school, Franjo Tudjman lost 300 students in 3 years, from 800 to 500. There are settlements where no child was born for 20 years. Three times as many people die as they're born. I ask you, I ask the Government how do you expect Croatia to be demographically revitalised when we lose 500 young and working people a week? Don't we expect a populist 1000-euro measure for a child to solve the problem? You don't expect young people to start their family and stay because of this measure? Children in Croatia today have no business because the standard of living is broken. We're building a society of poor, unemployed and inequality. That's why thousands of young people leave Croatia. How do we stop it? It's not that gas-bitter population anymore when people were leaving temporarily. It's something else now, people are leaving with their families and they're hardly ever coming back. They're leaving the whole family. Where is the strategy for the development of agriculture that is necessary for the development and survival of the village? Where's the national strategy for young people? Where is the population policy that will lead to family development? In 2009, about 43,000 children were born in 2015. Every year he dies in Croatia or more dies than about 10,000 people are born. In Slavonia in some municipalities there is a population density of 6.9 and we are talking about Lica and someone will mention here the most likely character where there is over 7 density of population. And we can't point a finger at those people because they're leaving. They're fed up with patriotism, they're fed up with everything, they're leaving for simple reasons to find work, to work, to solve their existence, to survive and live a decent man. Slavonia and Baranja without a new job and investment strategy will hardly survive. Citizens have lost faith in politics and are tired of fighting red tape, corruption and unemployment. And let's not fool ourselves, there's no increase in the number of employees. Last year we lost 18,000 jobs. Gentlemen of the Government, gentlemen of the Parliament, come to the Osijek Station just 15 hours ago on Sunday, look these young people in the eyes and explain to them why there is no perspective for them in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7173	Thank you. I would now ask on behalf of SDP's respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7174	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club expresses deep concern with the current moment of Croatian healthcare not only because of the announcement of an increase in the price of supplementary insurance that will significantly endanger both health and social status especially of pensioners but also extended waiting lists, suspended hospital construction projects as well as some new categorisations of hospitals that are contrary to the national development plan of hospitals adopted here in the Croatian Assembly. My colleagues and colleagues, I would say that we will all agree that the vision of every politician regardless of party membership must be that Croatia should be a society of equal opportunities for all. There are more preconditions for Croatia to be a society of equal opportunities for all but I believe that two are crucial. Those two, they're probably superseded by me. Questions we should reach a consensus on. One is education and the other is right to health. The right to education that must be equally accessible to all and the right to health that must be solidarity, comprehensive and equally accessible to all. Unfortunately, in the past, it seems to be happening exactly the opposite. I would remind you that just in the period of the Government of Zoran Milanovic's mandate in 2011, it was in 2015 that this availability was increased compared to what was before 2011 through an increased number of scholarships, through increased subsidies. And in this term, it happens exactly the opposite. So it is preceded by Minister Sustar and Minister Nakic. I'll remind you that we've barely stopped the suspension of high school transportation subsidies. I'll remind you that students are late for scholarships. I will remind you that 4 million kuna in the Croatian budget stands unexpended and the National Foundation for the Scholarship of Students and Students has been practically abolished. Make sure Minister Sustar does not try to be alone from the stained veins of Minister Nakic. Yesterday was World Hypertension Day. We know that the leading causes of morbidity, mortality in Croatia are heart and blood vessels. Unfortunately, Minister Nakic does exactly the opposite and does not help patients with high pressure to keep their pressure normal, however, it seems to me that especially after each of his statements and appearances, the dose of drugs must be increased to keep their pressure normal. Let me remind you that our vision, our goal, as well as the objective of the Patriot coalition under the programme presented in the pre-election campaign was also solidarity, comprehensive and all equally accessible health care. What we pointed out in the SDP is that this must be ensured without increasing the price of supplementary insurance without increasing participation and that thanks to such quality healthcare after 5 years we all live in Croatia for 2 years longer. Unfortunately, Minister Nakic does everything the opposite. Not only does this announcement and the non-restriction of the price of the supplementary insurance policy deny the possibility of quality health care, by abolishing the rehabilitation programme... Health institutions stopped a project that ensured that at the end of 2015 70% of the county hospitals did not create new debts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is tragic for the minister to stop a complete reform of the hospital system, ensure all the preconditions and documents voted by the Parliament to ensure full reform of the hospital system during 2016 and 2017, implement a master plan and invest a whole range of funds from European funds in the development of daily hospitals and day surgery. I remind you of Sisak Hospital stopped construction, Bjelovar Hospital stopped construction, Pula Hospital Slowed construction project. Rijeka Hospital questioned the continuation of all projects launched. I'll remind you in Bjelovar there's a questionable investment worth 160 million kuna. In Sisak investment 150 million kuna. These are all projects that have been evaluated by the European Union, for which the 625 million kuna envelope now stands. So these projects have been stopped and what has been offered to the citizens? In return, citizens were offered a new charge of 30% of the additional insurance policy as well as a maximum increase in hospital treatment participation from 2 to 3,000 kuna. I will remind you colleagues and colleagues that the decision to increase supplementary insurance has been made seven days after the adoption of the state budget, which shows that it is already being calculated to transfer funds of public money into private funds. I therefore believe that my colleague, Nakic, must make an urgent public statement that giving up the price hike in supplementary insurance policies and that it is committed to the problem of resolving the waiting list. My colleagues and colleagues, today there are 30,000 more patients on the waiting list than on the 10th of January, I'm going to repeat 30,000 patients more waiting for a first check-up at the hospital. Let counterpart Nakic commit himself to solving this problem, if he is unable to do so, let him stand down and leave some place for others. The HDZ colleagues, colleagues from HDZ, agree, let's give someone else a chance to work this job better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7175	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDSS and Reformers' Club, the distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7176	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On several occasions in recent months, we have warned from this speaker about the increasingly dramatic situation when it comes to demographics and when the forwardings are demographic trends in the area of special state concern. So, not only the wider area of Slavonia which they used to talk about here by individual colleagues and individual media, including fellow Juhasa today, but this applies practically to the entire area of vital interest for the Republic of Croatia, the border area with Serbia, with the BIH and the areas which, if they fall below critical demographic numbers, will be practically impossible to recover. In the past few years alone, some 4,000 people have moved out of Knin. The people who got from the state flats, those two hundred in the past two, three years, they sold those apartments and went somewhere else. At the same time, former tenants, members of the Serb community are making it difficult to buy those apartments that the state has made possible through a housing programme. That's true for Knin, but it's also true for Vukovar. Instead of income from the sale of these apartments, the state makes it difficult and impossible and thus further destroys the assumptions for any development potential or for any greater sustainability of local self-government units in the area. Three thousand people have moved out of the town of Sisak on the verge of those areas over the past few years. I think if we can just look at Knin and Vukovar as places where we're going to celebrate, if we're going to watch only where we can lift the promenade to the Danube and rebuild the tower and not build assumptions that people survive in that area, then we won't do anything. And it is indeed high time that, for example, these areas that are particularly emotionally important for all of us regardless of what war experiences have passed, but emotionally important for all of us and strategically important for the whole country, areas that do not seek so much resources that seek other areas, do not seek billions but are looking for reasonable means to start to create assumptions for life, to restore agriculture, to restore small entrepreneurship and to restore tourism, this without the help of the state on the basis of only private initiatives will not go either in the Zadar hinterland, either in Lika, in Bania or in Kordun, nor anywhere. And I think it's an opportunity for all of us from this place together, independently of party membership, to invite the government to start thinking or at least listen to those who already have ideas about how this can change and how trends like this can stop. And trends are really dramatic. In the area of Ličko-Senj County, in the largest part of Lika-Senj County, one that is not in the coastal area the number of inhabitants per square kilometre falls below 4. If someone thinks that vitality can be preserved with a little tourism in the Plitvice area, the vitality of Plitvica was maintained at the capacity of the whole of Lika. And we're not doing anything to do anything about it. Of course we're still spitin' on the so-called. The Yugoslav concepts of Plitvice Lakes but someone like Lapov is not in sight, someone like Vidakovic is not in sight, not as humans, but as an idea, not as business incompetent people, but as those who could take responsibility in any way. We unfortunately argue here about things and topics that can't withstand history.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7177	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, the next one will speak to the distinguished representative Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7178	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS club did not ask for a break like Honorable counterpart Shucker said there would possibly be no parliamentary majority to vote on, because I am as deeply convinced as the club that today it will be difficult for the fourth attempt by the assembly majority not to vote. However, offered topics that have been opened today, which is the topic of re-announced increases in supplementary health insurance. Equally the elimination of child benefits with Down syndrome. We think we should talk from this pay phone next. My dear colleagues and colleagues, it's been seven months since the election. Eleventh, twelveth, first, second, third, fourth, fifth, seven months. The sixth one will go like that. We've got an annual seventh and eight, and here we are in the ninth month. And let's all ask ourselves together what we did for the time being. It must be asked, and the majority of the Parliament for a simple reason, if they work more, will also do opposition. In these seven months, what have we done? We were talking about reform. What's reform? Reform is the establishment of a new system. In order to implement the reform you need to know the existing state, the zero state, you have to have a vision, an idea and a goal. Reform was legalization. Why? For the reason that we knew that the situation of illegal construction was such that we would stare before it for years, that we would allow people to build illegally and we would enter into a reform that was not simple. We set up the reform and spent it. It's a reform. What have we done for these seven months? We're confusing the citizens. First and foremost, we really confuse the citizens. First, respected Minister Nakic said the increase in supplementary health insurance is. Here in the Parliament, all right for lunch is a congregation employee asked me to go in, I want a policy as much as I pay. You know what I said? I don't know, 'cause I really don't know. And if we had to vote here now, I don't know how to vote because we don't know. What did we do? We've made a major reform of sealing. Well, my people, it's a little thing in the sea of what needs to be done. The next reform here is us and we decide for children with Down syndrome to end that supplement that they have, that is, the obligation they have. It's not a reform. It's something else entirely. But what could be the common denominator of all this? The common denominator of all of this is that very lightly, without thinking, we attack those who are the most endangered and confusing people, we really confuse the citizens. We're announcing a series of laws. Our citizens think that law has already been passed. An example works. Real estate tax law. I'm meeting people on the street and they say just let me know about your 50-square apartment as much as I'm gonna have a tax. We do not know, for We have made it easy for us to announce it. It does not need its mandate, whether executive power or legislative authority, to take it lightly. Behind every sentence spoken behind this pay phone, behind every sentence spoken by any resolute minister of the message, citizens and citizens still trust those sentences. I think they believe less and less. So if we announce something, if we say something behind it, it should be a responsibility. We forgot all responsibility together. The responsibility is to come to the vote. The first responsibility is indeed the parliamentary majority's responsibility which must be responsible for its mandate, but responsibility is also according to what we do. If we are announcing reforms we need to know and what reform it is, we need to make it clear and clearly defined and have responsibility for its implementation. So over the past seven months, I've said seven months, but that's what we're going to do, and we're going to be there in nine months. When we draw the line and see what we've done, I'm afraid we'll all blush together. In order not to blush the call is to the ministers' responsibility. Behind what they announce, they must stand clearly and know what they are announcing, as well as the responsibility of all of us to really discuss constructively and wisely for these speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7179	Thank you very much. Now, I would like to ask on behalf of the club MOST, the esteemed representative of Strenji-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7180	Dear President, you've said some good words to the esteemed MPs, but in fact, to you and to Mrs. Petriyevcan, they could not be applied. You used this pay phone today to talk about a subject that at least you could read or ask people who know something about it. Look, this isn't. So this is how it is. In Croatia, we have 500,000 people with disabilities, of which children, or persons with Down syndrome, are 1650 people, children. The law on the single body of art, what you did not want to say, was passed by the Government on 4 July 2014, followed by a regulation to implement medical skills. To say the truth, once previously artificialized in six systems according to different laws and different criteria, this law should have been good and through this unique body introduced also unique criteria. Therefore, according to earlier regulations of persons with paraplegia or any type of damage, if they wanted to exercise some right in each individual system, they had to be individually artificial. In addition to the extra costs, they had an obligation to appear in each place, and that was a big problem. For this to be even in the new system, it is envisaged to be artificial in one place. So it wanted to be simplified, but the law, or regulations that were implemented after that, passed the government, none of you said who brought it without good preparation, without the personnel teams going to the whole story and the whole system wasn't functional. It's no excuse for that, but now we're not in power for seven months and the government exists for three months. And it's very difficult 20 years or 4 years how certain laws are in force now to change that. We can, but if one case at a time, they get to the one who has to solve it and try to run it to change the rules. Therefore, a regulation that is controversial throughout this story, the Regulation on method of art methodologies is prescribed a method of art, which includes methods of determining the physical, intellectual, sensory and mental impairment of the disability or functional ability of a person, the ability to work, the determination of physical damage or damage to the body and the level of support. It is prescribed that authorised witches do so, the way they work and the procedure of appointment and documentation is prescribed. What is a problem and what we have seen, I have actually been approached by experts, that none of these bodies are currently working in Croatia by any pediatrician. And then you have a situation where children at an early age when they have to be diagnosed early, it is known when a child is born with down but a diagnosis of cerebral damage and cerebral palsy, and the solution has to be waited even for 3 years, and for all that time, that child requires highly enhanced support, physical therapy and inclusion of all those experts in order to try to get that child better through early intervention. So, the problem is with the personnel teaming of those who were supposed to do it. So the concept of the Law on the Single Body of Art passed by the last government seemed good but was disappointed in practice and right now we really have 37 at this point thousands of people, not children, you should have read the right data, the person waiting for that solution. And that's a big problem because there aren't enough people who need to do it. So, the big problem is the lack of these experts because now they're witches in one place where most of the witches have been working on the skills of those who go to retirement or some other disability. They didn't do kids. So I personally said these days I didn't want to go public either as a representative of the Most, or as president of the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy until I saw what it was really about. And believe me, it's about controversial cases that might be 20 or more. We tried to collect data on what cases, and in which cities, who trained them? It's about first-degree solutions to get it back through some sort of a second-degree solution positively because of course we know that these children but also other children who are damaged, so it's not just children with down syndrome, but also other children with other diseases that are damaged to solve this in the second degree. And those children of course got their disability. So the information is that there are several cases. That is why we have also called a meeting with all associations and representatives of associations already tomorrow who will come and bring information about these children and we will try to resolve whether by amending the regulation or by solving how who can actually artificial children and where failures have been made I'd just like one more second, please. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] The citizens' initiative "We Help Children With Disabilities" which brings together 6,000 members have already been with us, visited and warned. The problem is an inclusive supplement that needs to be brought forward, the problem is that they don't already have the early intervention and all those experts that exist, the problem is the parent's parent. We'll figure it out, too. But they never once said that the problem is that we've passed bad laws. This government has not passed the wrong laws, we are only trying to correct the mistakes of the previous system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7181	Thank you. You've far exceeded the time, more than former colleagues I've allowed on your part to exceed the time. So let's try to be a little parliamentary. I will now ask Honorable Representative Milivovo Spiku to speak on behalf of Club Milan Bandic 365, Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj, Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7182	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am learning and informing here again and again, so I think that this part of the Rules of Procedure that allows me to request a break to present some relevant problem no longer or less must be but I did not know that it was an amendment to the Rules of Procedure and that a review of the press was introduced. Well, then, in the morning, we have some nice fresh information, who hasn't been able to read the paper. Of course, as President of the Block, I am very pleased to have some other MPs report together, so that they also want to protect the rights not only of the pensioners but of the entire population, so that they are very concerned about the announced purchase of the supplementary health insurance policy that they will be if they are and will be when they are. So it's all by the one you'd like at this point. But it's nice to have someone after a few terms and ask what we're going to do in the Parliament now? Here comes someone who wants to do something concrete and something that some people shouldn't do. So, at this point, the Croatian public does not have to worry too much about whether or not the additional health insurance policy will be collected only because Minister Nakic announced it because there were certain reactions from announcement to realization as well as reactions within the ruling majority that are crucial. So, the others can collect signatures, they can demonstrate, they can announce revolutions, whatever they could do 3 years ago, 4 or 1 or 12 years ago, but they haven't. It's not off, and we can also say here that we can also return the possibility or difference in the payment of the supplementary health insurance policy, so let's say that one of the ideas can be and be given revenue. So let's say it's 1%. So there'll be a shelf from 20 to 200 or 300 kuna, depending on the individual's income. And something that could possibly be tomorrow. Now that we're going to scare our citizens that the shelf is going to be 89 kunas, don't bet too much because there are some of us who are wondering. Now, of course I'm also saying this as president of the Retirement Block together for which I have to correct both the public and certain colleagues didn't set up HDZ, so we're not information for anyone's pendant, nor are we founded by the SDP. 140 founders who have absolutely nothing to do with anyone. And I am also in this assembly among the last to be congratulated on NDH Day as some colleagues declare. But it's just so little use of this pay phone since the Rules of Procedure allow. Furthermore, I am glad that my colleague explained this abolition of the supplement to several people with Down syndrome but go back to this being that I wanted to deny my colleague, we don't need to take a newspaper, show them here and do daily analysis because there are our ministers who obviously haven't gotten along or who are glad to play test balloons to see how the public will react and then we'll correct ourselves. But there are some of us who don't need test balloons, who know what we citizens expect from us and make sure that we fight for it and the rest of them who want to give any advance thanks, thank you in advance, because really protecting the rights of all social groups is the task not only of the Block pensioners together or other political options that are little, have more sensitivity to these groups, but also of all of us here 151. And I believe we'll find a common language on that path. And we said everything goes as it goes, when we don't go change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7183	Thank you very much. And the last one will be the intervention on behalf of the HDZ Club of Honorable Representative Ivan Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u7184	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here for the past two months we have heard very often stories about health care, such as this, but for 3 years we have tried a conclusion that would adopt this Assembly to get to the state of financial Croatian health and failed. So the latest data we have with 31.12. Croatian health care was due somewhere around the commitments of about 2.5 billion kuna, the former head of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, and the minister returned about 750 million kuna to hospitals. It's like overinflated costs, and at the same time you remember when there's a speech only you're doing overtime, you're doing tests, this, that you're reducing the waiting list you'll all be paid for. The question is, what about that 750 million hanging in the air? Who's gonna pay for them? Will doctors who have worked, who have spent material, who have spent their resources to do this job, who will pay for it? The second thing we heard from colleagues and colleagues was that financial order was introduced in the country, that everything was paid within 60 days, the time limit for paying drug suppliers was between 200 and 300 days. However, it is very interesting that no one, for this extended deadline, is asking for a bill of interest. Because that in itself raises a question, so the question is, how can someone stand it for 200, 300 days not to pay for the goods they delivered, he probably financed it with some means, those funds cost and at the same time he doesn't charge interest. And you know why? For the simple reason that he's already calculated it into the price of drugs and the logical thing that we all end up paying far more together. And speaking of health care, I think these are the topics we need to discuss. And once we've solved these topics, then we'll talk about some other things easily. But until we solve this annual loss trend of about 2 to 3 billion kuna, let's not forget that over the past 4 years, health care has been remedied twice with a total amount of over 6 billion kuna. And after the four years of office of Kukriku coalition, what is the result of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Ministry of Health? Minus 2.5 billion kuna. And also, colleagues and colleagues, let us not forget that it was only said that we of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute will pull everything out of the escalator of the Treasury will be wonderful, everything will be wonderful, we will pay everything in time and so on. Here comes the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance from the State Treasury, the state treasury is back in the clinical hospital centres again, and what do we have? We have another minus 2.5 billion kuna. I repeat, these are topics that we need to discuss, and until we can solve this problem of continuing the creation of a minus in healthcare until all these political and political advances towards the minister unfortunately will have no benefit, nor will the minister benefit from these 19 kunas if he does not solve these problems. But I'm saying the best thing is to forget what it was like when I was in power and I was making decisions, I mean the ruling coalition, and with mud I'm hitting on someone long right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9808	and we would move on to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Report by the Advocate General for 2015. Carrier: Attorney General. My colleagues and colleagues, I understand the excitement has eased, but let's go listen a little bit. Therefore, the applicant for the report is the Advocate General in accordance with Article 16. Law on the Advocate General, Article 12. Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, Article 9. The Act on a National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel Inhuman or Demeaning Procedures and Penalty, Article 215. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 39 Attorney General's office. Due to the vastness of the material the full report is not multiplied but is located on the website of the Croatian Parliament. A summary of the report was delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Usually in school when a teacher shuts up then peace is created, it seems to work here too. So, the report you received at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to further explain the report? Yeah. Here's Miss Laura Vidovic's esteemed occupier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9809	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. In 2015, 92 thousand pensioners received a pension of less than 500 kuna. The 38 thousand inhabitants in 20 units of local self-government are completely out of the water supply system and the range of water prices determined by suppliers is from 9 to almost 28 kuna per cubicity. Almost 20% of young people are not educated or working and are therefore at risk of total social exclusion. The number of cases diagnosed with melanoma in Croatia is at European average but the mortality rate is 50% higher. Unacceptable and discriminatory rhetoric in public space remains strongly present.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9810	My colleagues and colleagues, please give the esteemed occupier the opportunity to bring it out or you don't care at all about the subject that I think of the key topics of actually civilization that should interest everyone. I'm asking you nicely to give her a chance to tell her her report. I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9811	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Parliament, if you don't mind, I'd like to start over. So I'll do it again. In 2015, 92 thousand pensioners received a pension of less than 500 kuna in the Republic of Croatia. The 38 thousand inhabitants in 20 units of local self-government are completely out of the public water supply system and the range of water prices determined by suppliers ranged from 9 to almost 28 kuna per cubicity. Almost 20% of young people are not educated or working and are threatened with total social exclusion. The number of cases diagnosed with melanoma in Croatia is at European average but the mortality rate is 50% higher. Unacceptable and discriminatory rhetoric in public space remains strongly present and minority rights are seen as a threat to the majority. This is only a small part of the problem discussed by the 2015 Ombudsman's report covering all the mandates of the institution. Legal action of the public administration in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman, the prevention of discrimination under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the National Prevention Mechanism and the protection and promotion of human rights in accordance with the accreditation of the National Institute for Human Rights with the status of A with the United Nations. This report shall contain an analysis and assessment of the situation of human rights and the occurrence of discrimination, particularly in relation to individual areas or vulnerable groups of citizens. It is also recommended to remove systemic deficiencies and irregularities and to assess the extent to which the competent authorities have acted according to our earlier recommendations on the information available to us at the time of its writing. It was created on the basis of information that we collected not only from complaints from citizens, but from year-round cooperation with numerous bodies, organisations, associations and individuals, field tours, research and media publications and data provided by stakeholders from all over the country. In the preparation of this report, the data they consider important we have requested at 362 addresses and of all public legal authorities only the Ministry of Health and the data has not been delivered to us. With regard to the whole year of cooperation in the work on complaints, we continue to record increasing cooperation and communication with the competent or complaining authorities, and in particular I would like to point out the local level since during 2015, after the earlier opening of the district offices in Rijeka and Osijek, the district office of the Public Attorney in Split opened. However, certain authorities still do not respond on an up-to-date basis or ignore our actions. In 2015 they were the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, University of Zagreb, KBC Zagreb and State Office for State Property Management. As regards the work of offices and statistics, the number of cases we handled during 2015 were complaints or general initiatives 4655, which was 13% higher compared to 2014 but almost 80% more than 2012. When we talk about areas where the majority of complaints are concerned, the judiciary remains first, followed by working and official relations, after which complaints of discrimination in the total number of grounds and areas, property legal relations, police officers' conduct, performance, health, protection of persons deprived of freedoms, social care, etc. In relation to the state of human rights and the fight against discrimination in 2015, I would like to highlight three basic points. The first stems from a really large number of complaints received from citizens in almost all areas and shows the mistrust they feel in the system and institutions regardless of whether it is the judiciary, the administration, the state bodies or those at the regional or local level. Unfortunately, the numerous and mutual discrepancies of the regulations further deepen this trust. Citizens are not sufficiently informed about their rights, they do not know which institutions and competent authorities should address to protect or to exercise their right and lose their patience due to the very often many years of and unsuccessful wandering around the system. Whether it is free legal aid, social care rights, working relationships or some other legal rights. Citizens speak and write that they have a sense of injustice and inequality in front of the law and an attempt to find extra-institutional solutions to that trust then strengthens but also distances society from the rule of law and legal certainty, which further slows down so many necessary systemic changes. The second emphasis I wish to highlight is on the economic and social rights that extend naturally through almost all segments of life whether it is about the social care system in a narrow sense and the situation of the most vulnerable groups of citizens, the availability of social and communal services, problems in the system of working and service relations, health protection of the availability of services on the private market and discrimination on the basis of the property, as well as access to justice, which is increasingly marked by the property status of citizens, where those who do not have sufficient financial resources often remain inaccessible. The country's long-standing poor economic situation continues to deepen further and the difficulties deepened especially for the most vulnerable ones. The introduction of a guaranteed minimum fee did not show adequate results in improving the social status of persons with disabilities and unemployed as well as any parent families. A large number of elderly people cannot meet the basic needs of life, do not have adequate care and care, are often victims of discrimination and are left out of social housing plans. Part of the data said that there were more and more young people and women among the homeless as well as defenders. In addition, the complainants often state that society treats them as a burden while at the same time the support system is not tailored to their real needs. Workers in the private sector still often cannot achieve all basic labour rights, such as those paid for, and on an appropriate daily, weekly and annual vacation. On the other hand, during 2015, we have often witnessed the labelling of public sector employees as a catch which, apart from being humiliating and offensive to individuals, also points to the mistrust of citizens in the institution that I have already spoken about but also further deepens it by creating a vicious cycle of dissatisfaction. The link between living standards and health conditions is increasingly evident, putting the richer members of society in a position of privilege. Although some of the procedures or treatments of the waiting list are shortened for certain procedures, they continue to form several years in advance and a more recent and more effective generation of medicines is inaccessible to patients. The announcement of the rationalisation of the health system primarily through cost reduction poses a real risk of reducing the quality of health care, making it necessary to strengthen the position of the most vulnerable groups of citizens such as poor, old and severely ill. All this shows that equality before the law is not always met by those weaker assets and this problem is further highlighted in rural areas where local units do not have enough resources to meet the basic needs of their inhabitants. In rural areas, public services are insufficiently available, both social and municipal, which contributes to deepening social exclusion and precisely the availability of public services most vulnerable should be one of the indicators of the success of all future reforms. The co-operation of state and local decision-makers is of the same importance as finding new innovative solutions in cooperation with European and international stakeholders. The third emphasis that I want to highlight concerns the position and rights of members of national minorities. Cases of ethnic discrimination and discriminatory public speaking. In almost every fourth complaint of discrimination as the basis, the race, ethnicity or colour of the skin or national origin are cited, and the unequal treatment is largely exposed to members of the Serbian and Roma national minorities. Problems remain with the exercise of the right to equal official use of languages and letters, representation in state administration bodies as well as in access to public media. During 2015, the atmosphere continued to develop to question the role of national minorities in society and the justification for the existence of private rights guaranteed to them and was mainly directed against members of the Serbian national minority. A dispute has been continued over the installation of bilingual panels in Vukovar, which could only be reached by agreement with respect to needs and feelings and the Croatian majority and the Serb minority. Stronger efforts should be made to destigmatise the Cyrillic as well as to promote the value and use of all minority languages and letters that are an integral part of the cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia. Although the share of national minorities in the total population is 7.67% among employees in state administration bodies is only 3.40%. In the election for councils and representatives of national minorities in local and regional self-government units, turnout was just slightly higher than 13%. Long-term problems remain related to reconstruction and housing programmes. There is a divergence between the needs of users and the ability of the state to provide sufficient funding from the housing fund. The dynamics of refurbishment cases in the war-damaged houses show that administrative and operational difficulties with the exercise of the right to rebuild will be present for years as well as difficulties related to the recovery and restoration of the electricity distribution network in return areas. Roma integration remains difficult. Mostly because they live in isolated settlements. Although some have introduced a public debate and waternets, the connection is often too expensive or unreachable because of the legal status of the facilities. In addition to housing conditions, they also face a number of other problems such as failure to exercise rights in the system of social care or status rights. Roma who are foreigners with an approved temporary or permanent stay and even those with citizenship of the Republic of Croatia also have difficulties in achieving health care since the monthly amount due to be paid for compulsory health insurance of 400 kuna per person simply cannot be paid. The measures of social inclusion of Roma are unrelated and scattered and bodies at the same or different levels of government are often not familiar with the activities they carry out. The conduct of the presidential and parliamentary elections but the refugee crisis during 2015 also affected the increasing occurrences of unacceptable and discriminatory speech directed towards members of national minorities, ideological not like-minded but also refugees. It was communicated with symbols, graphites and other messages. The House-ready calls filled social networks and football stadiums and lacked its full public condemnation even though it expressed its propensity to the fascist regime. Discriminative and hateful comments on internet portals and social networks are not removed in time, although according to European Court of Human Rights, portals are obliged to do so. Activists and human rights fighters are also the target of discriminatory speech and their assets are being destroyed. Public figures, political, social and religious leaders have special responsibility, discriminatory speech and prevention. Your words have a special weight, because through the media they reach out to the general public, which is why it is extremely important to call for tolerance and condemn the phenomena of discriminatory speech and hate speech. As regards other grounds and areas of discrimination on the rise, there were also a number of complaints of discrimination based on both older and younger citizens. The following are based on health conditions, education, political beliefs, and then faith. In relation to the areas of citizens, they are most discriminated against in the context of work and employment. In doing so, workers continue to report unsatisfactory discrimination mainly because of fears of even worse treatment and loss of employment, as well as lack of financial resources. Of other areas, management, access to goods and services, justice, education and others should be mentioned. And a table with a complete list of basics and areas can be ours in the integral text of the report. When we talk about the work of the National Prevention Mechanism in 2015 with the treatment of persons deprived of liberty or limited freedom of movement during last year we were in 72 visits to prisons and prisons, police stations, homes for older and powerless, psychiatric institutions, and places of movement and residence of refugees. No behavior or conditions that could represent torture or inhumane conduct have been observed, but they are those who could be humiliating. The quality of healthcare provided under conditions of accommodation remains one of the most common reasons for complaints against persons deprived of freedoms in the prison system. The responsibility for ensuring adequate healthcare for prisoners should be assumed by the Ministry of Health as well as by the general population outside the prison system, and now provided within the framework of the Ministry of Justice. Although the accumulation in prisons and penitentiary has decreased compared to previous years, the prisons are making considerable efforts to improve the conditions of accommodation still do not respect the spatial conditions in the penitentiary in Lepoglav, and prisons in Osijek, Varazdin and Zagreb, and the conditions of accommodation of persons deprived of liberty in police stations are partly outside international standards. There is still no clearly defined uniform rules and criteria for the implementation of specific measures to maintain order and security which can lead to errors with tragic consequences as in the case of prisoners who burned in a particularly secure room without dangerous things in November last year. This situation could be avoided that the system provided technically suitable rooms and an appropriate individual approach to prisoners. The correcting of these systemic shortcomings certainly does not contribute to delaying the adoption of a new Penal Code, or a sensitive reduction of budgets for the prison system. The prisoners also complained about the ineffectiveness of legal protection, which they still lack confidence in and say that the legal means are not being used because they do not want to be resented by officials. The long-term conduct of judges who decide to appeal in a plight procedure is also recorded, not within 48 hours, but sometimes after 4 months. The complaints of persons with mental disorders were primarily about forced hospitalisation and the implementation of medical procedures without free consent, and part of the people with mental disorders were charged for participation during forced accommodation in psychiatric institutions, which is indeed unacceptable. During the tour of homes for elderly and powerless persons, no procedures have been established that may constitute torture or inhumane treatment, but are those that may constitute a humiliating treatment and violation of certain legal rights. The reasons for this arise from insufficient knowledge of international standards and domestic regulations, from a paternal attitude that home employees know best what is needed for their users, so they treat them as children or because of lack of staff. Open door, non-use of screens in multiple beds and similar treatment during user care conduct disturbs privacy, and can indeed be humiliating. This Decision shall enter into force Croatia also faced a refugee crisis, with more than 550,000 refugees passing through the country by the end of the year. This challenge was addressed by Croatia, with its initial unpreparedness due to a large number of arrivals in a short period of time, adequately providing refugees with passage to Croatia in general, looking at human conditions. The solidarity of the people of Tovarnik, Bapska, Harmice and other places where refugees went, many volunteers, and a significant job of ensuring order and peace and helping vulnerable groups were done by police officers. On a daily basis, humanitarian aid was provided to refugees by numerous international organisations, NGOs and experts, and by the end of the year, refugees who passed the Balkan route through Croatia in principle were granted access to search for international protection, free transport, health care, accommodation and meeting the basic needs of life. Such an approach to the refugee crisis has equally responded to the need to respect human rights and the freedom of refugees, as well as to apply the principle of solidarity and to protect national interests. The refugee crisis confirmed already existing conclusions. Croatia is not a desirable country of destination, among other things because of obstacles to the integration of immigrants. The right to international protection in Croatia is achieved by 177 people, of whom 90 really live here. Although their number is small due to global circumstances marked by large migration movements and the fact that the first international protection seekers from Turkey, Greece and Italy should arrive in June in Croatia through an agreed move-and-moving programme, it will certainly change. However, the migration policy adopted for the period from 2013 to 2015 is not complemented by a new one, and Croatia has no integration policy either. Experiences of persons with approved international protection suggest serious obstacles to integration. There are no special Croatian courses for those looking for work or training for various professions. There is no support in getting to know cultural and social differences, and they find it difficult to access health care because of language and administrative obstacles. As regards the work of the Office of the Ombudsman in 2015, as I had already said before, we acted in 13% more cases than during 2014 and almost 80% more than during 2012, which is indeed a huge increase and shows that the measures for the approach of the office have brought citizens fruit. Among other things, stronger communication with the public. But primarily through the opening of the district offices in Osijek, Rijeka and Split, which certainly made us more accessible and closer to those citizens who do not have the opportunity to contact us personally in Zagreb. It is very important to say that the district offices have made it possible to work much better with the local level and with all the local shares that I believe will also be achieved in better protection of the human rights of citizens living outside the capital. In addition, we have continued to work more intensively with a number of institutions to networks organisations outside the country, and we have received significant confirmation at the international level of the election to chair the European Network of National Human Rights Institutions at the UN Human Rights Council. In relation to the co-operation and relations of the Public Advocate as an institution and the Croatian Parliament, whose office I am as the ombudsman of the Authority, I use the opportunity to point out an important moment related to the operation and status of this institution. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Ombudsman is independent and independent in his work, and the new powers can only be added to him by the basis of the law. At this moment, two initiatives are under way that envision the extension of powers of the attorney general. One refers to the transposition of the Directive on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights of guaranteed workers in the context of freedom of movement of workers and the other to the monitoring of forced distances. Both jobs carried out by the Ombudsman institution in some EU Member States. Such solutions are welcome in Croatia. But they cannot be based on an agreement with financial implications or government regulations, but solely on the law, with adequate financial resources being allocated. Otherwise, it is about the conduct of the opposite Constitution, the international principles of the operation of independent national institutions, the endangerment of international accreditation that we have both the normative and functional weakness of the institution. Finally, I would say that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we had to submit, along with this report, a summary that was led exclusively by the quantity and the fact that it must have up to 30 pages, but I do urge that the debate on the report be based on an integral text that has comprehensive data and not only on the summary that we have heard in the cassils. Thank you very much, only on the note that my deputies Lidija Luka Kezić, Mario Kresic and Tena Simunović Einwalter are here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9812	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas than before I give my word to my colleagues and colleagues I will take advantage of this occasion, many of us have gone but it is still important to congratulate my colleague Sandra Perkovic on the world record in throwing the Diamond League disk. I suggest we congratulate her! . And now we're going to go back to these less beautiful things that we talked about, so we have a series of replicas. [[Applause.]] The first one came from a respected representative, Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9813	Dear President of the Parliament, everything here is beautifully written as if it were in accordance with all the standards of the European Court of Human Rights. Only one critical thing missing here is that the most disciplined, discrimination against the people most conducted are ethnic Croats outside the country and here. It's easy to prove. So, we have discrimination on the basis of the religious community, we have a Croatian Orthodox Church which, according to Article 6(3), has fulfilled all the criteria, is not recorded at all. We have a denationalization problem since '45. For years, people are still fighting for their rights, and 6% of the land has been introduced into the catastre. No one's talking about it. Plus 2 million acres of agricultural land. We have Croatian defenders who are in prison, some 10 years old and some less. When they get out of prison, they're put to the test, one of the 2.8 million kunas they have to pay as damages to alleged victims. No one's talking about it. In Canada, Syrian refugees have more rights than Croatian citizens who want to return to Croatia. No one's talking about it. It takes Croatia three years, which was born outside, the parents of the Croats to come here, I've had personal experiences, 29 months stretching one. Construction, Croatians harass the bureaucracy of their country of origin. It takes 65 weeks for a building permit. That's not how the mob works. And when they get everything by the book, then the neighbors have to come and approve the building of a house for someone. That's unimaginable! And Bulgaria is ahead of us. I'd just like to conclude, the Croats are out there most discriminating against them, who needs three years? Orban in Hungary gave anyone whose great-grandfather was born in Hungary gave him citizenship and also let him ride around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9814	Thank you. ... Will you take charge of the session? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you think it's appropriate to throw. Okay. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9815	Thank you very much. We listen to the same report every year, the exact same thing. So you're stressing a violation of the Constitution in terms of equality, discrimination. Of course you listed some facts, 38 thousand people have no water supply in their households. However, I don't know what your strength as attorneys is to run certain processes? For example, when we look at it all is centralized so in Zagreb children have free textbooks of elementary school children while in undeveloped areas they do not have many... the transport of students from mountainous and mountainous areas where their parents do not have the means to transport has no support or have no organised transport at all because it is not profitable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course our kids are somewhere, so they have better conditions. So the problem is centralization. You're talking about discrimination. So I think in Croatia about discrimination, you were talking about national minorities, Roma. I think about the Roma, maybe they have problems, there are other problems. However, I think that Croatia could also be plus in this regard, we could highlight some things, the attitude of the Croatian state towards national minorities and religious communities. Like what? The Islamic community is an example in the world as one country refers to it. But I'd like to talk about other problems like I said, mostly on issues that have been done with these, meaning an unfair system of inequality. It's just a matter of how much you can do things at all. As an example, it's not the same as being a foreign defender to each other, in this case at MOST. Because if I say anything to prevent the protection of national interests as in the case of INA protected data, secret information about me will come out. Of course, and it's natural that that party that defends that I used to be and create, it's a good thing that these data is brought to those defenders, of course. And the others are good at blowing her in their wings. So we have a number of problems now I don't know how much you're really ready at this point or before you take any louder measures or stress some irrelevant things every year, I don't think it's good. We have things that should be taken into account more openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9816	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9817	Dear Mrs. Vidovic, you've spoken a lot about discrimination, you've sent a letter to the UN along with a portion of the 112 platform that you said, in which you rated the anti-rule protest in Vukovar as part of discrimination, I'm curious if you still think so. Secondly, I would like to know that the report does not state whether you respect the Croatian Constitution and that part of the Croatian Constitution, which is voted in the most democratic way, which is that marriage is a community of women and men, or do you still consider that part of discrimination? The third thing, I'm curious, is that you stopped publicly and often quoted Mrs. Sandra Bencic from the peace studies and stopped at her defense when she said that persons representing Christian values shouldn't be welcome on public television. I wonder if it's still your attitude or if you might also stand in defense of people who represent Christian values? One part of the speech you obviously set out the most important ones you talked about about "For Home Ready" and the damage he caused to Croatian society. You haven't said a word about the recall that we heard here in the Parliament "Death Fascism and Freedom of the People" and, under this renunciation, numerous Croatian citizens were killed during World War II and after that, so I am generally interested in whether you can offer an argument that you represent as a public defender of the interests and rights of all Croatian citizens and not only ideologically on the side of some minorities who actually want to do so except being just, i.e. defend their interests and destroy the interests of the majority Croatian people in the sense of which Mr. Glasovic also spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9818	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, first of all, I would like to commend the fact that the district offices have opened up, so we've discussed this a lot on the Committee, and I think it will very much contribute to the availability of attorneys' services to all of our citizens, therefore, who are often unable to physically travel to Zagreb. However, what continues to worry and what is evident from this report is that unfortunately, our citizens still do not know what the role of the lawyer is, in this case, the Ombudsman. So if we look at the structure of completed cases in the report in question, it says that the structure indicates that in 1375 cases, or even 62% of citizens are given general legal information. So we're talking about 62% of processed applications. I think it is very commendable that the attorney's office is working very hard to give to all citizens who are sending enquiries to the general legal information, however, I think it should be pointed out here that it is not the lawyer's job, or the attorney's office. And I think it is still necessary for our citizens to educate on what is the role of counsel and what the Ombudsman can do. If we look at the other complaints,... It's only 8%, unfounded 15th, so we can count that some 20 percent slightly more complaints the lawyer receives are actually complaints that are within the attorney's jurisdiction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9820	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9821	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your esteemed attorney, you presented some specific information as examples in your opening argument, so I'm going to be a little bit interested and probably the other colleagues who took on these issues by the Attorney General. You said 38 thousand people were in 20 units of local self-government without water. And then you mentioned that the price of water is 9 to 28 kuna per cubic. I don't know if you've located the real problem why that is. In one part because there is no network built and in the other part because the network is built but you have a Construction Act that makes it impossible for buildings to be connected mostly by these more vulnerable groups of citizens because they do not have legalized facilities, they do not have building permits. They've got a phone, they've got electricity, they've even got some connected gas, but they can't attach water because the Construction Act makes it impossible, it forbids it. So did you do something towards the restoring ministry to do something in that direction and that sense, that's the question. And the other thing, when you mentioned this discrimination that's happening, I have to say that there is, probably you've located it, but you haven't particularly highlighted the discrimination in the traffic section, how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia today don't have the most tarnished road? And there is no good deed because in the previous period of 4 years, 400 million kunas were kidnapped by the local self-governments of ZUCs with one move by the Minister of Transport and that money was spent elsewhere. So there's no local level of that. And yet another discrimination, you mentioned that you visited nursing homes, so imagine how much discrimination there is for those people who are located in the so-called so-called. social, state, county homes and those in private. They're not in the same ratio.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9822	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9823	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I think that every debate on the 2015 report makes sense if, during the debate, we try to point out the problems that are current in order not to repeat it in 2016, and exactly what the Ombudsman was talking about when it came to the availability of education and health care has deteriorated compared to 2015, and when it was much better than in 2014 it was said that in 2015 it was quite a big problem because some of the children had no quality education opportunities and now the number of scholarships has been reduced, some are not paid at all, especially the case of Roma children's problems. And secondly, about the problem of health care. The report therefore mentions that in 2015 the waiting lists were too long and that the right to expensive medicines was insufficient. And let me remind you that in 2015, compared to 2014, the number of patients on waiting lists and expensive medicines increased by 150 million kuna compared to 2014. Right now, what I was saying this morning, and again, I want to point out from the 10th of January when there were 80 232 patients on the waiting lists on 10th of May, that number is 102,378. So in these four months, the number of patients on the waiting lists has increased by 30,000. Illustratively through two examples, a patient who ordered a hip implant on the Holy Spirit in Zagreb in June 2017, a patient who ordered himself in Zadar on the magnet of the 12th of June 2017 will come to order. So colleagues and colleagues, let us jointly appeal to the Ministry of Health that it is already starting to solve these problems so that next year when we discuss this report, we realize that the situation is worse than 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9824	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9825	Dear Vice President, Croats and Croats about what I will do rather than about what hurts Slavonia the most. So I filed a report on a Croatian who lived alone in a village populated by the majority Serb population that was exposed to threats, which was exposed to persecution, which was exposed to everything from police pressure, pressure from the Croatian judiciary that the man ended up in the hospital. His name is Shamukic Ilia. I can only inform you that the gentleman in question died a month ago without waiting for justice in his Croatia, without waiting for justice from the Croatian judiciary or an apology from the Croatian police who harassed him. I've filed a report about this whole case and I hope it comes here for insight. I mean, it's about a man, a Croat who had an accident there that he lived in a Serb village, in a Croatian village inhabited by a Serb population where he only hung the Croatian flag on the day of the storm where that same flag was burned on his house, where his house was written he moved up, 4c, and where our police and the attorney's office made an effort just to make him the same poor, sick and self-indictive that he wrote it to himself and that he was exorcising himself. Here I would like to warn about how to treat Croatian citizens in Croatian sub-levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9826	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Budimir.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9827	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorneys, respected colleagues and colleagues are not nearly as dramatic as you say, and you could read from your report when you talk about the many years of difficulties in achieving them. Namely, the bilingual and two-written panels that you are talking about are from the Corps of collective political rights that have always been introduced everywhere and are consistent with the political moment and do not belong to the fundamental individual rights spoken of in both the Constitutional Court and which are irrevocably respected in Vukovar. What you stated in the report is your personal opinion. You're saying resistance to the introduction of Cyrillic is not only a reflection of the non-removing consequences of war, from trauma, to the punishment of crime and the discovery of missing persons, but a result of the failure to sensitize citizens about the need of... minority rights. The fundamental fundamental human rights that are not respected in Vukovar, i.e. the rudest and most brutal human rights, such as the right to take you or the members of your family, or friends or fellow citizens, have no right to take their lives or to be deprived of their freedoms, to take you to camps, to torture, to rape you. The right not to be unpunished or persecuted from home or banned from returning, the right to visit your dead or the right to a grave for yourself or members of your family. Compared to bilingual and bi-written panels, there are direct serious violations of basic human rights. Finally, because of all this and the implementation of these collective political rights is causing such resistance and, among other things, a violation of public morality as the Constitution of a protected category. I share this opinion with a number of defense and victims associations, initiatives and other civil society associations in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9828	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9829	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I listened very carefully to your exposure. And I agree on many issues especially when it comes to a pre-election campaign where you stated that there were inappropriate messages during the campaign. I agree with that. It's only saddens me that you haven't responded. In a campaign for the local elections of Varazdinka, the Varazdins received obituaries in their caslics that said: “Varaždins, Varazdins, you need the Mayor of Varazdinec. You think someone from Popovacha likes Varazdin more than the Varazdins. The vote for Cingulu is the vote for HDZ, Cingula=HDZ." Let's just say that's what it looked like. Well, I think we all know what it means to put a man alive on one such obituary, so these flyers, then they're signed crying, flyers, pamphlets signed by who sends them, so Varazdin was glued to black jumbo posters, not Cingulin, not HDZ, not Karamark, with black posters. He has never experienced so many black posters in the history of Varazdin. No one reacted. You have also stated that there are a number of examples, speeches, hatreds or inappropriate speeches towards members of national minorities that I condemn and I believe that any such hate speech should be responded. However, when Dr Horvat insulted Croatian defenders, yet not one institution spoke but was treated as a dialogue, his right to freedom of thought and speech. So here's what the doctor says: “If the 45th had lasted a little longer in the '90s, it would never have happened. They're such cute defenders, they're mobile, they're motionless. The patriotism on four wheels with a Clerophazim drive. There are rodents headed for the Cyrillic, the hills were shaking, the mouse was born!" So I'm curious if there are double criteria, according to lefts, rights, according to ours and some others, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9830	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić. He's gone. He lost his right to the replica. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities, the Honorable Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2015 at the 7th session of 28 April 2016. The report was considered by the Committee as a parent working body. In the debate, it is proposed to consider a different methodological approach to draft the report, bearing in mind that the proposed report should bring together three earlier separate reports. It is about the annual report submitted by the Ombudsman to the Croatian Assembly in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of Croatia, then the report by the Ombudsman on the occurrences of discrimination in accordance with the second law, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the annual report submitted in accordance with the Law on National, Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or penalties. As the proposed report clearly sets out only the part relating to the work of the national preventive mechanism, it is proposed that the following report should present separately the other two reports or parts relating to human rights violations and discrimination in accordance with the laws mentioned above. It is also proposed to point out separately the complaints received by the central office in Zagreb as the report separately sets out data for regional offices in Split, Rijeka and Osijek. As some 3 thousand were received during 2015, namely 2917 individual complaints, only 8% of the data was requested, 181 were the subject of the complaints and as many as 62% and more than 1000, 1375 cases of complaints on which the citizens were given general legal information. It is pointed out that according to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the Ombudsman is not authorised to provide legal assistance in the form of legal counselling and legal submissions, and therefore it is not quite clear what kind of general legal information is being done but the Ombudsman will certainly explain it to us later. It is also indicated that there is a discrepancies in data supplied by competent authorities that collect data on such as hate crime. It was pointed out that data from the MUP on ethnically motivated violence in the Republic of Croatia were provided at the previous board meeting, which shows that 24 hate crimes were committed during 2015. The proposed report sets out the data of the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of the Nationals on 47 procedures for hate crimes, including public encouragement to violence and hate, or hate speech, even though this is not a criminal offence. It was noted that the data collection methodology should be harmonised to avoid arbitration in the handling of competent authorities and to increase the credibility of the data. In particular, it is of particular interest to cooperate with the Public Authority with the Ombudsman's Office, since individual bodies still do not provide the required evidence. It has been pointed out that it is unacceptable for institutions themselves to send a bad message to citizens to continue deepening their mistrust in the work of the competent authorities. It also draws attention to the fact that in almost every fourth complaint of discrimination, race, ethnicity or color of the skin, and national origin are cited as grounds of discrimination. It stressed that there is still a problem of public expression of intolerance against minority groups in general, and in the case of national minorities it is most expressed to Roma and Serb national minorities. In particular, the introduction of an open telephone line for reporting discrimination cases since 2014, which has been a significant aid to members of national minorities in obtaining the necessary information on the protection options or follow-up to the complaints lodged. Finally, when it comes to the Roma national minority, it has been said that the same has been repeated in all reports over the past years, that almost the same findings and recommendations have been repeated, but that there has been almost no shift in improving the position of members of that minority. As it is pointed out, no problems have been solved that the Roma face when it comes to the exercise of the right to citizenship, the regulation of residence or the monitoring of contributions to the health insurance of minority members who do not have Croatian citizenship. In particular, it is stressed that the number of complaints by members of the Roma national minority cannot even be higher because there are no basic preconditions for their submission. As is said, Roma cannot be expected to submit electronically at least in the statistically relevant number of complaints when they have no account or internet access where they live. Moreover, the problem of Roma employment is best noted that the problem is best reflected in the fact that only five Roma employees are in public institutions. It is expected that the competent authorities will increase, that they will focus more on solving this problem. It is particularly indicated that the need for competent institutions to react more quickly when incidents occur in Roma settlements with frequent tours and monitoring of the situation. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Advocate General for 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9832	Thank you. Does the government's representative want an additional explanation? There isn't. Then we'll have a discussion. The first is the SDP Club, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9833	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Attorney General, Mrs. Laura Vidovic, with her associates, colleagues and colleagues. And as you and your associates are, i.e. you are your person, the Croatian Parliament has appointed you Commissioner of the Croatian Parliament. So, the first protector of human and fundamental rights. The SDP club will immediately say it supports your work, supports this report by finding it very professional, objective, it is not administrative. Through it almost every word that is so vivid and those who communicate with citizens see your engagement and efforts in solving never solved and never the necessary ideal of human rights and freedoms achieved. I will especially mention here what we have all brought together the amendments to the Croatian Constitution in 2010 where we have just raised to one higher level the Office of the Advocate's Office and the very person of the Ombudsman, the female attorney general with additional powers even to some bodies so that she is not a lawyer with her co-workers only the shoulder to cry. Before I say something in detail about the report itself, I would like to point out that every debate we have, and especially on these issues, and how to improve human rights and freedoms in the Republic of Croatia, remind here every MP if it is not fit or unable to see if there is any sight, then he should step out of the Croatian Parliament. The provision of Article 3 states that freedom, equality, national equality and gender equality, peace, social justice, respect for human rights, integrity of ownership, preservation of nature and the human environment, rule of law, democratic multiparty system is the highest value of constitutional order. So, I don't think we'd have any light on it here. However, as certain debates occur here or we hear some debates, what kind of message we send to citizens. Is that a responsibility? So these values are not discussed. They're our dogmas. Those who do not accept them will be less harmful and better protected human rights. When the hordes attacked Rome, a Roman citizen was not easy to gain Roman citizenship. They told me what to fear, I'm a Roman citizen, which meant that in every segment, his property and his life and his family would be protected. Here I believe that in this light we are also mature to see not only our constitutional obligation but to watch exactly how to improve the state of human rights and protect ourselves in the Republic of Croatia because in this way we strengthen Croatia, we strengthen ourselves in some way and achieve and gain trust in others, and in the neighbourhood, in Europe and in the world. Because as a small country, we can only prove ourselves to be a principled policy, first of all, a focus on these highest values of our own. Now we can ask whether the rights of the weaker, the rights of the national minorities, the rights of those whose economic power is smaller, are they indeed weak rights? Unfortunately, we see it that way. The truth is that in many aspects, however, the situation has improved, but human rights violations remain evident. That is why, I repeat, it is important to think about man’s position, regardless of all his differences, what his position in society is, what his position is in relation to the state and what the duties of the state towards the individual. We see, that's what Mrs. Attorney-General said after all, that our citizens still don't know who to turn to, how to protect their injured right or what they think they're hurt about. If they do so when they engage in a procedure whether it is administrative or judicial, judicial, then they expose themselves to further longevity which ultimately creates a bitter taste, a sense of injustice, hopelessness, and, on the other hand, when the same state faces them by demanding their right, it acts at great speed. So there's room to protect the rights of citizens in the Republic of Croatia better. However, currentities, this is the 2015 Report, and I will only say one sentence and the responsibility of the ruling ones is the biggest message it sends. This is what we see from the reports of this committee that my colleague Furio Radin has now read, as well as from the lawyer. We often boast in digitising, connecting our ministries of public institutions, but what and what information? If Mrs. Attorney General is speaking in her almost sacred duty to protect human rights and freedom to other institutions, and they are silent, then what are we talking about here? Is it, then, that the institution of the attorney general just to figure us out, to put us in countries where human rights and freedom are at a great price? What is immediately seen, apart from the large number that the Ombudsman specifically pointed out where the biggest objections remain? In the area of justice, administration, discrimination, protection of property rights, complaints of police conduct, protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty, health issues, the issue of health protection. So, what do we see right here in the judiciary? So we're seeing a shift in solving the backlogs. Even more speed of action is not the biggest problem, now the big problem is the quality of those decisions. It is something that the judicial authority needs to take into account and we, as a legislative body, need to help. For one thing, I will speak on behalf of the club, that you will also support the SDP's proposal to amend the Penal Code, in which re-infringing the law by a judge and a state attorney or any judicial official would re-emerge a criminal act that was in '97. So in 2000, we introduced him, after 2003, he mysteriously disappeared from our criminal law. We have long boasted and it has been a great engagement of all previous governments to introduce free legal aid, however, obviously and as simplified as this procedure is apparently still an obstacle to achieving free legal assistance. And in this way, the fundamentally human right guaranteed not only by our Constitution but also by the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of Article 6(1) is violated, namely the difficulty of accessing citizens to justice. It's interesting to see here precisely in judicial cases relating to discrimination, these are in our criminal and criminal law nevertheless relatively new offences, new crimes. We see that the bodies in charge of processing and making decisions in this kind of case, and we assume for sure, given the number of cases that have even been reported to have a large black number. that not all such cases have been reported, that is to say, more about the media than there are later in court proceedings because people know as well as women who have reported rape, which they all face in such proceedings. This means that our bodies have been judicial, whether by the administrative authorities or not they have not yet recognized this kind of very serious crime because they are born of hatred later and other very dangerous criminal acts. The number of convictions, in contrast, if we see the State's Attorney's report, so here we'll compete with this report, you'll see how effective the State's Attorney's Office is in dealing with the judgments received. However, here the condemning judgments and judgmental decisions in this kind of case are worrying and embarrassing only 9.6%. What does the D.A. rightly conclude from this? That the exact way of sanctioning the perpetrator raises a preventive purpose. Because the best prevention is the quick detection and adequate sanctioning of the perpetrator. If you don't have it then the expansion of intolerance, the hatred of each species first of all by wealth, by nationality, and then on the street we can expect. What also worries that it has not been solved yet is the problem of Serbian property, agricultural land, one part possessed, is not returned, but is still an unprocessed, old population, which is why it bears obligations because the property and under the Constitution commits it cannot process it, but it is still the problem that the property that is illegal of other people possessed is not returned. There is also a big gap between the public and private sectors in terms of labour and service relations. So we have relatively, their voice is well heard, it's not for us to judge how organized they are but mostly we hear in public about the rights of employees but they are in the public sector. On the other hand, those who are employed in the private sector, especially in the trade chains, we can call them days off today to be slaves of the 21st century, and in particular we have female labour. So whenever we talk about investment, we have to talk about how much man, what kind of salary can an employee expect? I will repeat from the Constitution that wages must be made to ensure a worker, employee and his family a worthy life. Is that so, because today unfortunately we have a condition that people are either unemployed or overworked, and precisely because they have excess labour, people are afraid to ask for their rights at all. However, there should be caution, and there should be, that it also draws attention to the Ombudsman herself that she is not waiting for the names of the employees who are there, or the workers who are there in fear that inspections in respect of above all that protection of work relations will be protected. On the other hand, very negatively lately, this is the last year for which a report is written by people who consciously do their work in the administration are called earrings. There is an arrest, but then we expect the new set to carry out the reform of the administration, that no matter who hired them, the new criteria of the objectivity of their work remain and advance in the service. Who isn't, goodbye, thank you for your work so far, rather unhappily. And that's the only thing, I think we have to agree on that because those people who are consciously doing so. the engines and the eye that the rest of them are just tossing on them falls into the same crap as the ones we don't have the strength for, the state doesn't have the power to get rid of them. Either she didn't care or she had her own fingers in it. However, these are the people who give and whenever they are what choices we are talking about the administration that will be effective, which will be effective. Therefore, objectifying to enter service and survival criteria in the service, remaining in service and advancement can be independently of what political furniture is in power but precisely about how much service the citizens are. The SDP club supports this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9834	Thank you. We have three replicas for your debate. The first is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9835	Dear MPs Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, mentioned above, the key thing is that citizens do not know who to turn to when their rights are violated and they have no one to turn to. And that, in my opinion, is the essence of today's debate. We have since the other day a threat to fosterers in Zagreb's kindergartens. Why? Because they came to support the protest in which they asked for the law to be respected, to apply the state pedagogical standard, and to simply comply with the law. That's why they're being treated and it's been confirmed that they're going to lose their jobs, that they can't join a union they want, that they can't get out of the union where they've been if they've been nothing. International rights have also been violated, and international institutions have also given their own court. I wonder if the attorney general is doing anything about it. Are the rights of those breeders who are trying to improve the situation for children in children's kindergartens of the City of Zagreb and thus for children throughout Croatia because everything that happens in the City of Zagreb is kind of reflected throughout Croatia? To whom to report, how to help them, how to no longer threaten this society? Because we're witnessing that some powerful men threaten and intimidate people to get their heads down. And that's why our message today is always and everywhere we need to be, let's not be afraid because it's the only way to change something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9836	Thank you. Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9837	I thank my colleague Bernardiæ for this replica, and I have also raised my plate to answer you because you have drawn attention to what is happening in many local administrations and self-government units where the head of that unit of local self-government, regardless of what has been given the citizens' trust because we have already agreed that the elections are just an assumption that the government is not as it will be, so he understands or she realizes that it is her rails, more fluent and that all employees were either directly through companies or institutions owned by that unit of local self-government. It's something that's inadmissible. And that's why citizens say that there's earmarks, and that's why management falls to the part of the administration that's doing the job because if one small part of it didn't do the job, everything would fall apart. And that's why this appeal of yours to the attorney general's office is not going to interfere with her because women can work on more robberies, so listen and talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9838	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9839	Your Honor, Vice President. The Croats and the wrestling, we'll talk about Rome again. What am I afraid of when I'm a Roman citizen, that could be said by a Roman citizen but what could he say if he had a crazy Nero by his side, so if he had a bunch of those same praetors like that to Nero, they conspired against who? Against his Senate and against his citizens and against his army that should never have come to Rome to make order. Isn't that right? What and whom to address that little citizen if he comes across a problem called "let's go when we're mostly making up a law that we'll use if we need those who bother us. And who's bothering us? We are disturbed by those who publicly object to wrongly made constitutional decisions in Vukovar against the Cyrillic. So a law was passed in the past government in such a way that all those who happen to be in a place where it is protested in a peaceful way that anyone who stays even longer than 3 to 5 minutes does not matter whether he speaks or not, can be punished by criminal or criminal charges. So as well as a verbal delinquent, we can declare people and persecute them from the courts, in what way? So the minister can call the D.A. slowly and get this one instead of breaking the law, so you're washed. Now that we're talking about it, I want to thank you because I have 17 seconds left, thank you nice gentlemen for coming to look at my contribution to the truth about the Croatian Homeland War and the true sacrifice of 12 monks whom you avoided Christian and I don't know how different and you haven't even been able to give a minute of silence to the late defenders. But that's why you hypocritically rushed to Ban Jelačić Square to collect a few kunas for a brick. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9840	Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9841	Mr. Culej, you've obviously been late for the Parliament for 16 years because that's not how it was spoken in the '90s, so you're coughing like that, and it's long since been debated in the Croatian Parliament. You can't show your patriotism by denying the rights of others and demeaning others and evaluating their actions that you don't even know the facts. You're telling us we didn't pay our respects, then we were honoring our president, the former Prime Minister, the late Ivica Racan at the same time. And I'm just going to remind you of something, and with that part, I can agree on the Constitutional Court's decisions, there are different. And the one you're talking about is one of the best decisions in both professional and all. But you and I, some people like them, some people don't like them. You swore here because you couldn't be a representative of the Constitution, you stick to the Constitution and the Constitution says everyone has to respect the Constitutional Court's decisions, if you can't say goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9842	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9843	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, in your debate you have very similarly analysed this report and what concerns me in these 4655 applications I would like the attorney general to have at one time more of his own initiatives and even on such statements, regardless of what any representative can say whatever he wants and it is in some way guaranteed by the Constitution without any sanctions. But inciting intolerance and intolerance should not be allowed. And on that side, I would like to see the attorney general protect sometimes MPs in the Croatian Parliament from the public lynching of what is called discrimination against their status and health rights. And on this side, I support Bulj's representative in his justified demands to protect him from the violent behaviour of his HDZ colleagues who go in the least possible way in his personal integrity, on his disability, on his status right as a Croatian defender. And that way they try to send a message if you say what Karamark or HDZ doesn't like, we'll discredit you in the worst possible way. And I would like the attorney-general to take this particular case of Mr Mikulic and his opposition to Mr. Representative Bulj, his health and his status law of the Croatian defender as a case of one discrimination which is absolutely unacceptable. It may be acceptable to HDZ, but it should not be acceptable to all normal citizens. And on that side, I'm surprised to be honest that Mr. Bull could still hand in hand with people like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9844	Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9845	And that's a sad opinion. So, if you don't belong to a particular party, if you are, no matter what you were a defense attorney, you can deny that fact and further not only insults, slander but also commit a crime. Because according to Article 76. The constitution here we have immunity only for an opinion expressed and only for voting, for committing other crimes to reveal secret, whether state-owned or someone's persons who are particularly protected or other illicit conduct we must be aware that it does not exculpate us from criminal or criminal responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9846	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Nada Murganic on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9847	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney with the associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2015 is based on the obligations arising from the Law on the Ombudsman, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism. It contains analysis and assessments of the situation, protection of rights and freedom of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and recommendations to remove systemic deficiencies and failures. It contains estimates of how the competent public authorities treated citizens in these proceedings. The Ombudsman stresses that recommendations on the removal of irregularities by government authorities for 2014 have not been adopted. The report is similar to earlier years but I will point out some importance in my debate on behalf of the HDZ Club. In 2015, it is specific that in the campaign for presidential and parliamentary elections there was a lot of hate speech, the division of society on us or on them, the accusations of fascation of an inappropriate attitude towards elected members and representatives of the government and state bodies, towards candidates. The report states that there are discriminations in our society with different basics, faith, nation, material property, age and gender with health and disability grounds. The public space is polluted by a speech in which sometimes there is no elementary, polite and raised behavior and speech with a high dose of hate speech and intolerance and without respect for his conversators, his opinion with convictions without arguments. We ask the question whether the Ombudsman was present in such circumstances and in the role he plays in society, which was given in accordance with those legal regulations enough to be present in public. Did she warn and criticize such behavior every time she showed up? Did she hear and report in public space, sided with those who were attacked without foundation, dared those who did so regardless of what political options they came from. The Ombudsman has an obligation to speak publicly when citizens outside the Republic of Croatia are denied constitutional law and obligations to vote. The pictures of Croats in the BiH on the day of the presidential runoff were devastating. The Advocate-General, under his constitutional legal obligation, does not have the obligation only to act on individual cases and reports, but is obliged to speak publicly about such negative phenomena when society is measured on us or on them, when they are criticised and condemned by totalitarian regimes, only some should, when convicted by some fascist or inappropriate greetings, only some, and not all, when condemned by divisions in the marking of significant dates, only some, pay tribute to the victims, only some. When a national holiday is marked inappropriately in theatre or theatre performances, when some associations are treated selectively, religious feelings of some believers are offended. But she did not, although the Law on the Ombudsman allowed and obliged the Ombudsman to act and initiate initiatives based on knowledge and not only on complaints from citizens, and that is the greatest criticism of her work. In 2015 she was everyone and will remain in memory of the defenders' protests. In order to protect their rights, above all elevate were publicly, orchestrated and organised during protests, insulted, treated in public as a burden of society, like those who abuse society as criminals. The D.A. didn't protect them. But there's something positive, and I really want to point that out. In 2015, it will be recorded after the refugee crisis, when our people, together with the authorities, have properly and humanely cared for persons who have fled from their war-infested countries due to danger. In 2015, the Ombudsman was elected to chair the European network of national human rights institutions and mandates in the governing body of the International Co-ordination Committee, national human rights institutions in the United Nations and we congratulate her on this and we think that during her term of office, she will impartially represent us on the pride and interest of the Republic. Reports are abundant in a series of data, covering all areas of our citizens' lives and those who have complaints. These are again repeating all areas of social and civil life. The number of items in 2015 is record. It occurred in 4655 cases, which is 80% more than in 2012 and 13% more in 2014. The number of cases of the attorney general states that it is also greater to strengthen and extend office powers, the availability of offices to citizens, as well as the opening of district offices in Osijek, Split and Rijeka. What I want to point out is that the D.A. states that when citizens turn to the edge of despair, lost patience and trust in the system. The view further deepens the lack of compliance with the rules on the ineffectiveness of state and public officials. The complaints relate to the work of judicial authorities in the field of enforcement, irregularities in the area of property-law procedures, in the field of social, health care, pension system, housing care in almost all areas. We also point out that the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, although it was passed several years ago, did not revive those who needed to implement it, and therefore education and enforcement as well as the media are necessary. It is also necessary to draw up a new National Anti- Discrimination Plan document which ceased to apply in 2016. In short. The D.A. points out that citizens feel discriminated against. Every third subject in the Republic of Croatia and every fifth in the European Union. The anti-discrimination phone line has been called by 167 citizens and it is a general picture. And now something more detailed about the area of protection of human rights and the repression of discrimination in which the first place again takes over the judiciary where 475 complaints were received most of the work of the courts, and this is for the length of the proceedings, for the sake of unequal case-law and for the suspicion of the bias of the judges. The long-term and ineffective nature of the administrative procedure results in a violation of citizens' rights and they even address international legal institutions, the European Court of Human Rights, which requires major financial burdens for the state budget. The length of the procedure is also a bad message because there is no timely and valid punishment. What the Ombudsman points out and I point out is that it is not good that the DORH does not respond to the representations of the citizens, does not provide information on the state of the case although they are the constitutional obligation of each body with public authority. The prosecutor also points out in this year's report that most ministries do not respond to citizens' questions or inform them about the state of the case which is unacceptable because it is a public body obligation but also an opportunity to communicate better with citizens and restore trust in the work of state and public services, which we all need very much. The prosecutor points out that each fourth application refers to discrimination with the basis of race, ethnic, religious or racial membership, and points out applications by members of Serbian nationality especially in areas of special state concern, in areas affected by war, during aggression and in relation to the Roma. Roma are in an exceptional material position to isolated settlements without municipal infrastructure. Living conditions are difficult, very high unemployment, have no, are not educated and do not have their own regular means of living, and measures of Roma integration policy are unsatisfactory, occasional and scattered. National minorities in the total population are 7.6% employees of state administration bodies and of government services and offices 3.4, although this law is particularly regulated and stimulated. Citizens' complaints also concern transparency in employment. In general, unemployment and employment are the source of many irregularities, i.e. feelings of discrimination almost the entire population. The unequal situation of workers in the private sector has been highlighted, which has already been discussed with regard to those in the public sector. In fact, it is noted that these in the public sector have greater rights, which is mainly very often the fact. Prejudices are present in public statements that employees in public and social services are arrested by political means, that they are unequal, unemployed, and that is a discriminatory attitude towards them, which is certainly a warning. Unemployment is a source of many discrimination, it is difficult to get jobs older than 50 years of age and former penitentiary because they are Stigmatized, and it is a difficult situation for people in rural areas. They too are threatened by the inaccessibility of means of transport, leaving work, and not accepting a job. But it's also one of the reasons why they're threatened by social exclusion in the Parliament. On this subject, the Ombudsman organised a conference on the topic "Out of town, away from law". Household care in areas of special state care has also not been resolved and has one, a higher percentage takes up exactly that area of protection in those 4655 applications and complaints of citizens also concerns housing rights. The status rights of citizens are subject to lawsuits and violations by police officers. When checking the residence address and in general in terms of the conduct of police officers who do not comply with the Regulation on the conduct of police officers. The commission at the seat of the MUP and police administrations as a form of civil surveillance over police work has not been established and the internal supervision of 2247 complaints resolved is only 10% detected irregularities or partial irregularities which create doubts about objectivity among citizens and in this regard the public is quite sensible. As a national preventive mechanism, the lawyer visited prisons, psychiatric hospitals and social institutions as an independent body and claimed that human rights were violated due to standards in prison systems. Irregularity wasn't high in social institutions. In particular, the Ombudsman points out that there is a great need to leave institutional accommodation as a form of care for all social care users especially young people due to social inclusion of social welfare users. Where deinstitutionalisation started, the problem is that there are not enough developed social services networks. And what might be, I'm going towards the end now, but I'd especially like to warn about age discrimination. It has been discriminated against every age, young because of educational inability and because of unemployment, older people because of their inability to move are isolated, and because they are not very prone to digitisation and information, they have also become socially excluded. Since we are an older nation as a country, we feel that taking care of older people is 61st place compared to 96 countries does not serve us much to honor, or warns us of better care. For all this, the Ombudsman presented and cited a number of recommendations, 160 to various state offices and bodies in order to improve the human rights situation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9848	Thank you. We have nine replicas in this debate. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9849	Thank you very much. Mrs. Murganic, you mentioned in your debate that the situation and certain statements have been made to me or those that have contributed to certain unfavorable movements on the issue and discrimination of certain feelings in the Republic of Croatia, but you obviously did not understand the intensity of these statements. A statement to me or they were referring to this, to this. Or we, normal work in the Republic of Croatia, protecting national interests, INA in front of MOL's interests, Croatian company for Croatian workers, Croatian investment in Croatia, or those, unfortunately today, hundreds of thousands of kunas for private interests and consulting services, Josip Petrovic, 2 months after leaving the INA immediately sign or a month immediately sign a contract with MOL that approves these same guys who gave Sanader under the grains by the judgments they made in Croatia. That's what it was about, or us or them. Either order and protection of national interests or this Mrs. Murganić, an affair consultant of 500 thousand kuna, which the average Croatian citizen earns in 8 years for consulting market analysis services no'. It was either us or them, ma'am, and that's what we need to talk about. And that's what we need to talk about in this House because we don't need to ignore it. I'm amazed at all those who can support such a variant. ... That's the theme, Mr. Lucice, of course. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's the topic most important today in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9850	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9851	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Maras, here I have just wanted to point out in this debate that we condemn everyone, and myself personally because you have called me by name and last name several times, every conviction and every Stigmatization without any arguments. So I knew very well when I was saying what I was saying about it or us or them. It was then expressed in a completely different context and is related exclusively to ideological, political, national, and religious reasons. That's the same part of my report, the Attorney General's report. Don't show me this National, he didn't even come out. So I really want you to in this House when you're criticizing someone to apply those same criticisms to yourself. You can't accuse, you can't judge, you can't send messages in public where you're in advance judging people. You are not pleased with this when it comes to you, your colleagues, and therefore treat other parties as well, specifically with public authorities, in this case, the Government and the Government. That's something I wish the campaign attorney had talked about, and apparently someone's gonna have to because it's always gonna be us or them. You're not born with the right to honesty, believe me, there are all of us here highly moral and highly honest. And don't be surprised how some people could choose it. So make sure that hundreds of thousands of HDZ voters of the Patriot coalition are offended with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9852	The next replica is the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9853	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to stress in particular in the Assembly that the report by the Croatian Parliament's Ombudsman for the Croatian Parliament is based on what she has received, it is not a look through the window of discrimination or disrespect for the legality and equality of citizens through the work of the Ombudsman. And let's not switch to it for lack of Croatian society or lack of law. She's giving us as our commissioner what she's got. Well, we can read from this the state of the attorney general's view. This does not mean that there are no other and more serious injuries, but there is no one in the Croatian democratic society, in the Croatian state of democracy other than the Croatian Parliament that regulates or prevents discrimination for the good God. There's no one else. We are the only ones who regulate relations in Croatian society and make laws. He has even the right to the initiative to see whether or not there is a possibility in the laws or whether the law promotes discrimination. I am convinced that each of us wants to oppose such opportunities or such phenomena. Of course that doesn't mean we all have the same dioptria, that doesn't mean. I'd just like to make one more point. In my court I should say so and on committees to strengthen cooperation with inspections, especially inspections that enter the protection of workers' rights. We must recognise that we are a country in transition and that the culture of protection of workers at a lower level is even legally regulated than it is in traditional countries that have high standards of protection of workers' rights and formally but also in the workplace itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9854	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9855	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Mr. Leco, thank you for teaching me, but it seemed to me that I knew most of it. Namely, I tried my own discussion in a way and divided it into two parts. The part in which I criticise the inaction, or the absence of a lawyer's voice, and the law has given that role where equal protection and when the majority people are called unjustly and when it is that I do not now count and repeat it. And certainly, in the second part of my debate, I have highlighted and supported everything the Ombudsman has seen, obviously through my work and through complaints of citizens as negativeities in society that we all need to work together not to repeat ourselves. That was my criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9856	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9857	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Murganic, you criticized Mrs. Pussy's attorney-in-law for failing to react or act in your disputed statements, i.e. polluting public space with policies, you cited several examples of hate speech. But I'm asking you if there's anything more pervasive than an interview in one political weekly where as a pre-election promise you state that when your party comes to power that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be able to think and speak what they want but only in their four walls. Is there anything more deplorable than such pre-election promises where a violation of one of the key human and civil rights and freedoms is publicly announced, and this is the right to freedom of opinion and the right to freedom of public speech, freedom of speech? There is, the only thing worse than that is the carrying out of those words in the works we've been witnessing here since you took responsibility for the Republic of Croatia. We can see that this promise is somehow coming true. If you're already criticizing, and I agree with my colleague Lek that actually the intelligence of the attorney general in this case is very small. Then do not measure certain phenomena by double criteria because it is ultimately a hypocritical quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9858	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9859	Well, it was my debate that went in that direction that we should take a little care of the choice of words. So about that, I don't know why you call me, I didn't give that interview. Secondly, that is exactly what I would like to hear from someone who is relevant and who is seen by the people as a public defender who will defend all those who have been hurt by such announcements. Therefore, my entire debate went to call for equal relations, to equal criticism, to equal condemnation. So I don't see why you're calling me a hypocrite right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9860	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9861	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Murganić, what we should read from this attorney's report is what we should actually do to make the 2016 report better than it was for 2015, especially what should be done by those who are part of the ruling society in this case of the ruling club and the ruling coalition. In fact, there was recently a Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights in Croatia who expressed strong concern and pointed out that social cohesion and pluralism are seriously at stake in Croatia. He is particularly concerned about the rise in ethnic intolerance, hate speech aimed primarily at national minorities, especially Serbs, Jews and Roma. He is extremely concerned about reducing financial assistance to civil society and limiting freedom of the media, threats to journalists, he was particularly concerned about the case of the Council for Electronic Media. And here I'm asking you what you're going to do to put pressure on members of your club, Lucian Vukelić and Andrija Mikulić, who are incredibly scandalous statements practically pressured by members of the Italian national minority, by claiming that because they don't think as your club is no longer going to be funded. This is the most recent statement that occurred in this meeting from the ruling coalition clubs that say if members of the national minorities don't think what the ruling coalition thinks we'll deny them funding. I'm appalled, there's no colleague of Vukelic, no colleague of Mikulic, maybe they have more important things to do. But as a member of this club, I urge you to influence your colleagues to respect the rights of national minorities. And that Minister Hasanbegovic also does not deny the rights and does not compromise the international contracts between the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Italy when it is, for example. The financing of the EDIT publishing house and the only daily press of national minorities in the Italian language of La Voce, which is going out in Rijeka and who are threatened by the refusal of the financing of Minister Hasanbegovic and the statements of your colleagues at the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9862	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9863	My dear colleague, I fully understand that you will certainly use all these replicas and all these discussions to criticize the actions of this government and the Minister and these colleagues. We all know that the reason for this normal shift is the new way to distribute funds, introduce order, introduce equal relations with all cultural institutions in terms of funding and in terms of and in terms of associations. If you think it was inappropriate in public space to say a lot of things, so that's exactly what I'm saying, let someone who's going to be an arbitrary between us, someone is kind of independent, and by law it's set up in that sense. Because you and I are certainly never going to agree on this kind of thing because we're biased. And divisions in society have really started with what we or they and your president keep saying that. And I'm surprised that now in this month, all the rights of all national minorities have been violated so much that the world community has to be concerned. I therefore call on the Ombudsman given the new duty she now has in the United Nations to protect interests impartially and to show Croatia in the right light because such a drastic state is certainly not, but that it is unfortunately very damaging to the state for some, and it is using all of us for political purposes together, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9864	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9865	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Murganić, you mentioned it yourself and I want to point it out in the replica, it is an international reputation and position enjoyed by our lawyer's office and such a reputation that even in the far south of Africa they have heard not of our attorney's office but of our lawyer's name and last name. I think that said a lot about an office that's been built for years and we should be proud of. That you need to be critical anyway but you need to do it argumentarily. First of all, I'd like to correct one of your findings, and you said that voting is a right and obligation. No, my colleague, voting is the right thing to do, not the obligation. No one is obliged to vote but has the right to vote, so that's the first thing. When we talk about the victims, every victim is a victim and I reject the insinuation that I or anyone from my club refused to bow down to certain victims. The victim of every extremism is bad. If we talk about Croatian defenders who spent some time in Sava, I can say that from their conduct today they can read that their goal was purely political and no protection of rights or dignity. Because neither did they represent the entire defence population and their only goal was to get HDZ to power. When it came to pass, they were gone in Sava, and now the height is suddenly protected. And when we talk bigger about the things to react to, then maybe we should imagine how that one vice president of this House, a member of your coalition, is protesting against the law that this House has passed? How not to be worried when the international public is very concerned about what is happening in Croatia, they call it the Hungarian script, fascising society, rehabilitation and relativisation of fascist crimes. And what my colleague Jovanovic mentioned before me is restrictions on the right of public expression, that is, to express his opinion. That's scandalous, that's what we politicians need to warn about, not the lawyer's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9866	The answer is not a replica of the distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9867	Thank you. And here are some things I will certainly repeat myself, but I would like to point out that I was talking about the need for equality, the need to suppress in the public space the Stigmatization, that the defenders have been stegmatized and now from your speech as some who don't think with their heads, so they went as a political group to take down the then government from power. Well, that's like me now, so they shut up because HDZ came. Well, that's just like me now, so they shut up because HDZ's here, so it's like I'm saying that these organizations that are protesting with the desire to eat, that the SDP comes, and then they'll shut up. Here's what I wanted to do through my debate, it's what I hurried for if I can say it modestly, draw attention to the attorney general, and as far as her position is concerned, it's certainly thanks to the work of the office, but certainly thanks to the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, and it wouldn't get such a place as a representative of the state in which these rights are not at a good level.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9868	Next replica, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9869	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm replicating the first part of your exposé because in the second part, we can agree on a lot of things and agree. In the first part, it seemed to me and then you confirmed after answering some replicas. It seems to me that you are trying to say to dilute the seriousness of the situation in Croatia as regards the expression of hate speech, the expression of fascist symbols and the expression of Ustasha and shouts both in stadiums and in many places, as the high commissioners pointed out and not only the Council of Europe but also recently the OSCE. The whole world is talking about it, and we're trying to relativize it so as to say to a critic, we accuse her of being a bad critic of a movie she's been watching for a long time. So, instead of talking about the problem, we are practically at least in the first part of your exposure to the one that detects this problem together with international organisations and, together with all those who actually take a critical look at the reality in Croatia. I don't see any possibility of even criticism of what's going on in the field of hate speech. You see yesterday she was, we have young visitors here, yesterday there was a celebration of prom, graduates and at least two places it was shown that they welcome a fascist greeting and now here's to finish this, to welcome the fascist greetings and other Ustasha shouts at themselves. I know it can be relativeized but I'm telling you they had a green light from a lot higher places than we'd like to admit and what we see from your speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9870	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9871	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Radin, I don't mean to be divorced, I don't mean to relativize, fascist greetings, and I don't think it's a good thing that we're always talking about because that's what draws attention, that's the impression that there's more to it than this, that's really in society. I don't want to defend the young at all, but young people are young and in such situations something can happen and that's because it's all in society now. So we don't justify, so I speak for the club, we don't relativize, but when we talk about equality, then we're talking about criticizing it, fascist greetings, totalitarian regimes, but we need to criticise others. When I talk about the need to protect the religious and national feelings of a nation, then I expect that the protection and religious feelings of the Croats, or Catholics, should be protected. Why it was said in an ugly way about the worship that Catholics wanted, or gave for days to St. Leopold Mandic, and this religious group has the right to respect and to be injured, and that is why some ungood revolts arise. I think we should respect not everyone's feelings, all the nations, all religions, no matter how many, all the victims, no matter how many, and by that we will achieve that we are better at human rights in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9872	The next replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9873	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Murganic. So this debate of yours and your public speech, and right here in the report, it says how important public speech is and everything we say here. So, I refer to your first part of the debate in which you said a few things. You said, society is deeply divided because of all those phenomena that were, you mentioned election campaigns and then you accused her of these evils, so it seems to me that you accused the D.A. and it seems to me that this is how you discriminated against her work and you actually accused her of something she's not and she's competent to do. Discrimination that is always directed to groups of people most often always affects people individually, people feel hurt individually because their personal attitudes, their integrity are violated. Speaking of stadiums, why is that dangerous? Watch out in Pakrac is a group of students dressed as pioneers during the masquerade. Those students had to apologize. Who? Their parents who were accepted as pioneers. How much are we a hypocritical society? If in the stadium the young shouts call for the home ready then it's being transmitted, it's a message. And what my colleague Radin was saying is a message to the world. So we have to think about these things. And it's not good, it's really not good to relativize things and then say every regime should be condemned, but if it institutionalizes, if it becomes, if the president is there, if it's the prime minister and it's not responding then it's dangerous you know of such phenomena. That's why it's important. And in the end, here's what I'm going to tell you all in person. You're a member of the Patriot coalition. So if you're more patriot than me, I'll never admit it, and it was in the campaign, it was an insult. Why are you surprised now? We're called an unnatural government, you see. I'm a defense attorney, too. I've never been insulted by anyone as a defense attorney. If the tent was in Sava, you say it was. You said these were publicly orchestrated and organized attacks. Who did that? Now tell the public who publicly organized and orchestrated the attacks on defenders in Sava.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9874	Time. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9875	Look at it this way. Now, what I'd like to say to you right now is, let's be polite, shall I say, here's a funny, fucked-up question, who's a bigger patriot, am I a member of the Patriots? So what makes you more democratic than I am because you are in the Social Democratic Party. Therefore, I will not resort to such replicas, but I will respond to the first part of yours to repeat to the public that I am not accusing the Ombudsman of sharing in society, for you or they know who is responsible and for all these deviations that appear in society. But my debate in part of the criticism referred to her indecisiveness to publicly criticize both those and these.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9876	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative, Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9877	Dear colleagues, I will not draw you to anything. I'll just find out that you said that the totalitarianism that exists must be equally condemned, some we can't judge, some we can't judge, some we can't judge, some we can't judge and some we want, etc. And I'm not going to say that you've relativated things but it seems to me I'm going to use one word that perhaps best paints what because I believe you really want to condemn any hate speech that you might call a glich joke. But that means deliberately scratching or forgetting the original concepts. So who called for racism? Who called for racial hatred? Who had racial laws? That's one question, but I won't go into history because the victims and Stalinism, Communism and Nazism are numerous and there's no point in talking about it. What bothers me in your speech is that you do not actually see the need to sensitizely act according to what the extreme right offers today not only with us but across Europe, and we are witnesses. Look at Poland, Hungary, Austria, I can count on infinity, right? Relations to migrants, attitude to minorities. That's all that's actually happening with us in some way. And then when we put it in the same basket, no one's to blame. We're all the same. That's just not true. And I think so much that in some way we have to understand that danger is far greater today than the extreme left which is a little bit or nostalgic in Tito's way, so it's a bit comical, let's say, is it at least for me. And one more thing to say. You were talking about protecting the Croats, protecting the Catholics. Of course you should, but when they're a minority. We need to protect the politicians. So what kind of politicians? Who's supposed to protect us? So we have immunity. So you protect minorities and you don't understand the essence of human rights. They're protecting the minority, not most of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9878	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9879	So a member of the majority people has no human right. I think what you, which you have now taught me about the extreme right, I don't know what not, about racism, about something I was born here I'm not going to tell you about right now, but I'm certainly not at the time when all the laws were passed, and all this debate and replicas are really just so you can repeat something that you want to talk about and not something that's based on my debate, so that's just so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9880	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9881	Dear Mrs. Murganic. Do I have the right to go to pilot school? I'll say I don't because I can't see. Do I think that's discrimination? I don't think so. Is there a right and a possibility for a person who has no ear to enroll in the music academy? It's not because there's no hearing. I don't consider that discrimination. Therefore, institutions in a regulated society must have their rights in order for society to function as an orderly society. Just as these institutions that I have now cited defend and promote certain skills, so social like marriage institutions are based on certain values, values of love, relationships and not to be longer. Likewise, our Constitution is one valuable document, a valuable institution. And now there are people who promote certain values and certain people who do not want to promote those values and then these people are called for discrimination. They say you discriminate on us when we promote these values. I mean, this way that the lawyer reads the fight against discrimination is in the modern world one of the strongest tools of fighting for moral relativism in which we no longer have to point out any value as valuable because someone else who doesn't appreciate that value, and that's his right, will say that he is discriminated against. And that's why I strongly support that part of your speech where you said that the child's attorney doesn't treat everyone the same way. And this way we see with the SDP is that they say the Ombudsman should defend the religious minority when it is, i.e. religious freedoms when it comes to minorities. So, the Catholics who are in the majority have no right to protect their rights. When Leopold Bogdan Mandić Index.hr came, he wrote that they were orgies of drunk Catholics and I don't know what not. I didn't hear Mrs. Attorney General react. That's why I support that speech of yours about the defense attorney's not acting equally but ideologically biased.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9882	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9883	Thank you, colleague Ilicic. Here I'm going to make a little joke now, so I'm going to say according to Mr. Pecnik's previous replica when people are being married to minorities then we'll probably have the right, they'll have, because the question is how long any marriage will last, for protection. Here's a little joke. However, I really agree that everyone has the right to the protection of state institutions, that everyone has the right to human rights and to human dignity regardless of whether they are members of a majority or minority of a group of nations or religious communities. And otherwise, I personally condemn those who are so eager to protect one’s rights in a way that reduces or threatens the rights of others. My debate was really just that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9884	Thank you. And we'll continue at 15.00 hours with the next debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9885	[[CONTINUES AFTER A MEETING AT 15.00 HOURS]] Let's start with the afternoon session. Here's the order, the word has on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers the esteemed representative Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9886	I welcome this mass response to this report, I welcome, of course, Ms. Attorney General and immediately to say that we will, on behalf of the club, support this report, of course. We consider it relevant and appropriate, for every commendation, but that does not mean that there will be no objection. If I get a little too much praise, don't let it be understood, how am I supposed to say this conflict of interest because my son works in the occupier's office, so that it's not saying that I'm now praising the attorney general because my son works there, but of course there's a little truth in that, right? But there will be objections, of course, so we'll kind of venge it out. It's not over the line, but the people we're gonna make a deal. ... What I really want to repeat is the words of our President, the Honorable President of Mr Reiner's Parliament, that this is an important civilization issue, a civilization issue, and that's probably the only thing I'm going to agree with Mr Reiner. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But here's to express my satisfaction that sometimes I can agree with the President of the Parliament. What I think is actually a problem, and it's kind of a problem, and I'm saying it on the board, and so it's getting lost, that there's a lot of mistrust in institutions. I think it's visible, and then from that it actually follows certain manifestations in society that then actually lead as some mildly spoken polarization of society. The rule of law is in serious crisis, let's say that hate speech is not sanctioned as a crime and equality under the law is somehow threatened or threatened, in other words, by those who have money we have actually come to such a situation that those who have money can be well defended and we see it throughout a series of these great judgments and large trials falling into the water because obviously the defendant, the suspects and the defendants have good lawyers and the one who doesn't have it will be sentenced to free legal aid and all that we have declared as aid or as some regulations in the use of free legal aid. A similar situation is in education and education because, among other things, the Ombudsman's report is talking about it, so it is about discrimination on education issues and there is, above all, discrimination as much as possible for fewer Croatian citizens who are weaker in property, who come from a family of less educated families who can be educated. And that's something we should be worried about because it's just starting to seem like one selection that's not good. The rights of national minorities are in many ways unfulfilled so that human rights violations are increased on a national and religious basis. Among other things, housing will certainly be a speech, primarily the housing of Serbs in those areas where they need to be. It's something that's kind of a big imbalance between what's needed and what's financial opportunities and it's certainly going to escalate like a problem and be a problem. It would be good if we could spot that problem and solve it because we have to, and we have to solve it anyway. Discrimination is my deep conviction, and that's what the report says is on the rise worrying and what might be even more worrying is that we don't have a strategy to combat discrimination. The same thing when we talk about refugees, migrants however you like, and here in the report is a great deal of attention to this phenomenon of solidarity, about how our country, civil society and all people face this problem, but let's say one complaint has arrived, and I believe we've all received a complaint from the Red Cross where it's said that the attorney general, or her team, did not rightly re-valorize the work of the Red Cross. I personally think that they are and that this should not be overemphasized because it is ultimately the duty of the Red Cross, therefore one should not be praised for what he does. Maybe he just needs to realize that he did a good job and nothing more than that. But, well, that's more like what an aesthetic figure would say, but we have these problems, too. What's visible from this, a refugee crisis that hasn't disappeared and that's going to, I hope not, but obviously it's going to continue and that's that we don't have integration or migration policy. And that's something that we should be concerned about, in particular, what mass, we heard today the masses of young people going to Croatia but also a part of the people you will not want to stay in this country, so the issue of asylum, the issue of providing help, then forced fostering which are also on the agenda and reported by the Ombudsman but also warns that if the monitoring is to be done, the real one will need to increase the financial resources for it, but immediately the question of what they are well aware that it might actually be that the civil defence is losing then and to say one kind of independence in relation to that and that problem. But in any case, when we talk about this, we see that the number of complaints made by citizens was 13% compared to the entire civil society's public defendership compared to last year, and let's say that I from Osijek was particularly interested in what was happening in the office in Osijek because offices in Rijeka, Split and Osijek opened up, and there was also received 640 which, as they point out, is actually a question of justice, working relations, housing, local communities. In other words, all that can be seen in the report of the Freedom House, one report which has somehow passed quite undetected with us, but which is in fact very much conversing with what the Public Defence was doing, of course, in that segment it deals with, and indicates that in fact, Croatia's crazy democracy in which a relatively developed electoral policy is, if we can say so, but the protection of human, civil and political rights is very, very questionable. Croatia is located according to this survey, according to that report somewhere in the middle of the ranking because the country's rankings are between 1 and 7, Croatia is rated somewhere by a score of 4 approximately, we are better, we are the best in the Balkans because they place us on the Balkans, whether we like it or not, we are better than Serbia of course, than Bosnia to not speak, etc., but we are far worse than Slovenia, Slovenia has a mark 2, so this is actually already a developed democracy. We also need to be concerned because obviously this status of madness is already the third year in a row we get that grade and that's something that can actually be read from what gave us the attorney general. When we talk about forms of discrimination, what I resent, and what I will probably repeat during the presentation, the Public Attorney's Office, which is that it does not always react equally and in a timely manner to what I think should react. Let's just say, there was an objection here that the regiment didn't react to how to say that religious or religious rights were threatened by Roman Catholics. It's first of all about what kind of manifestations. But as far as I know when the Index text was written, the Leopold Mandic portal, the mere law enforcement wonders for a very precise name and last name and pointed to the problem of who wrote it and that it was not good. But that's how it should work with other cases because then it's actually kind of like how to say showing evil in the source. Because if you go metaphorically, if you go to general places, then we come up with some kind of relativization that doesn't really commit anything to anyone. In that sense, I think it did very well now that Mrs. Laura Vidovic talked about discrimination on a health basis. She pointed to the problem of participating, narrowing down citizens' rights, that it was done without an analysis that would, in fact, guide how and how to act, pointed out problems at emergency reception, made some recommendations. Let's just say the doctor should write a release letter so that in case something happens to that patient that actually knows who's to blame, not to reject him with an explanation of someone and something just because he doesn't like it. What was particularly interesting to me was discrimination based on faith. By our legislation, you can establish a religious community in case you have 500 believers. Why is it a 500, why not 50? Why not 150? Why 500? Why that magic number? I've never heard the relevant explanation. I was one of those who in the name of reformation churches, reformation heritage did contracts with the Republic of Croatia so I'm very familiar with this problem but it persists and everyone who has 499 believers can't start their religious community but must find someone, attract someone, because they simply have to register as an association. I think that should be done, not just blindly keeping records of the religious communities or of the treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the religious communities that then regulates it. I think that would be smart and good. Also when it comes to civil war victims, it is a problem that is constantly being dragged and which is obviously towed because no one cares about these civilian war victims. We keep mentioning the victims of war, constantly... The defenders and all that's fine, I don't mind, but since I come from Osijek, civilians in Osijek, and probably in all the cities that were exposed to day-to-day shelling, the bombings had to do their job, the bakers, the trams and all the living. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so when something happens to them, as far as I know, they're not equal in rights with defenders. And they were, it was their duty, they had to, a labour obligation. I was a college professor, I had to come to work even though we weren't doing anything. That's how it had to be. So if something happens, you're not really protected in the way it should be protected. And what's really important for me to see and point out, which is the expression and the problems that arise in public speaking, which is actually that hate speech, a discriminatory speech that is somehow more and more present. And I'm afraid the 2016 report will be far worse to describe the worse situation in Croatia than in 2015, which is certainly not great. And here it is well seen that in some ways the endangered members of the national minorities, ideological equalists, refugees, civil society activists, unacceptable symbols, graphites are printed out and indicated inappropriate speech, and among other things, as a form of inappropriate speech, it is said that one of our fellow politicians is our parliamentary representative after getting out of prison said he would now fill the batteries. Nothing, seemingly benign, but if you know what the batteries were doing in the process in which he was convicted of a war crime, then it's perfectly clear what it's all about. I'm not going to name Mr. Glavas because he's not with us, but he knows who's dealing with some kind of battery case in this space. But in any case, when we talk about inappropriate speech, the speech of politicians, it has been said, and it should be repeated very dangerous because it is really transmitted and often we want to effectively point and do not mean what we say, and then there are certain consequences, so you end up coming up with the fact that you know how often to object to those who do not belong to the majority people to say so because they do not like Croatia. I'm Slovak, I'm born in Croatia, I think it's important to love the Homeland something that's my personal thing, whether I love it or not, it's important that I respect it. And now if I love her, that's what I determine, but all I hear is that I love my country because I was born here, I'm not a monster. But why do something force someone to do something that he doesn't want to do, he can't, or eventually doesn't want to. Why dig into privacy on that, at that level? Anyway, I think the most important thing in this whole story is to have civil courage, to speak critically about the environment in which you live, if you have the courage of a citizen, of course not to talk but to some reason, and to the community that you live should not be misunderstood, but unfortunately it is most often. And a kind of speech that's getting more and more in use, which can hardly be the subject of the attorney general's office but, in any case, it's very interesting, and that's about what we're witnessing right now, and that's about how it is. Left-handed complains, radical humanists that they have a monopoly on anti-fascism that they are moral arbiters for anti-fascism, so if someone on the right wants to talk about anti-fascism, then they have to pour ash,... All the victims, etc., so the magnificent NDH, all that revils, and then the space opens up for him, and it can really bother him because why would he be a right-handed man and a great Pavelic, of course, it's nonsense and it's not true, but the fact that something is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But on the other hand it's also that problem at the right hand. She has a monopoly on patriotism, she has had an arbiter for patriotism, now if I say so she will immediately and see him, he is not ours, he is from the left, he is some, mostly not good and in any case we from the left should in your opinion constantly shed tears over I don't know Bleiburg, point out the attitude towards the church, the communist crimes, talk about the dignity of the Homeland War, etc. So they can get right and they're the patriots. That's bullshit. I think we can all agree on that. It would be very good if somehow in their heads we agreed on a moratorium to avoid it. And now I don't have any longer. What I think is the most important thing in this whole story, and that's that the civil defender's office is a little bit more concrete, a little more concretely calling the evil that he sees around him, and that it'll be better for everyone, or it'll be clearer, if that's in the job description of the civil defense, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9887	Here's a chance to say what you didn't get. There's a lot of replicas, so you'll actually be able to say everything you're not. Let's take it in a row. We've got plenty of replicas. The first came forward with the word "respectful representative of Gordan Maras." Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9888	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have applied for the replica of Mr. Pecnik because it represents the Croatian Labour Laburiste-Strank, and I have to react once again today, especially because it is a matter of discrimination in the field of work and I would like for a female lawyer who is responsible for investigating complaints about the work of state, local and regional bodies, to investigate complaints about the city of Zagreb and pressure on our teachers in the city of Zagreb, not to be far researched, here the last few days have been the union of education, culture and media very clearly said that the directors of kindergartens in the city of Zagreb are pushing teachers not to join the union, which is why they have submitted their application to the International Labour Organization, that they do not react to poor conditions of work in kindergartens and that they do not protest. This is absolutely unacceptable, and on this side I think that even unnecessary written application that the female lawyer, as a person in charge of the Croatian Parliament, would protect and prevent discrimination on various grounds, must immediately respond and protect those women and men who raise our children and who are about 5 thousand in the city of Zagreb, because in the way in which the mayor of Zagreb and his head Ivica Lovrić treat these people, there is no significant change in the future. So here I am, in the replica of this place, asking Mr. Pecnik to react and ask that as soon as possible report to the Parliament to see what she's done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9889	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9890	Well, if I serve as a medium to deliver messages, I accept it very gladly. But on the other hand, I don't see that it's a recommendation to me what I'm gonna talk about, right? I'm saying what I think I should say. And being a member of the Labourist and party work, thank God there'll be opportunities, I'll make you ears, and I'll make you sick.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9891	Thank you. Next up, the distinguished representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9892	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Pecnik, so much could be replicated but in two minutes it's hard to get there, so I'll just say this, it doesn't matter if you love or love Croatia personally or if you don't love anyone else, and that's really how you say it in the presentation of your personal attitude, but you forgot to mention whether you're going to dive tears over Bleiborg or any other crime. It is also your personal matter, but you forgot to mention that you should respect the regulations and institutions of the Republic of Croatia whether you love something or not. But I reported primarily to church institutions. At one point you said that today's law says that at least 500 people should be so that a certain church could be formed. I think that number is also small because there is a possibility of forming church associations at the end where more than 5 people can be through church associations. But forming an institution of church is not so easy, so more so tomorrow, today it can become an institution that will be on the RS budget for these or those reasons. So, I think that number is not only high but it is too small, but on the other hand it is necessary to respect the organized churches that today have thousands of people, so they are not legally regulated like the Croatian Orthodox Church, 17 thousand people. So I don't think it's a good idea to reduce the number should also increase that I'm not talking about the possibility of forming any sects through the model organization of a church institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9893	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9894	Dear fellow, what I was saying about love I was saying because it's actually been permanent since the '90s on here as some need for everyone to actually, to get a public word in public space and you have some characteristics that most people are not willing to do again. Then in some ways you are questioned and in some ways you are blasphemed or marginalized by it without it being loved. And that's unfortunately to this day. Remember only right during the war, before the war, right after the war that at least in the areas where I come from, it was required to show loyalty to the Serbs who stayed in Croatia. Why did this seem to those people who stayed, and they endured shelling as much as everyone else who was in shelters, basements, etc. Especially these people are kind of being stegmatized. I'm not saying it was a majority phenomenon but in politics there were people like that who did it simply and it should be admitted and it's not a shame. Why would that be a shame? And the truth is, if we don't want to see that truth, that's another thing. And as for this one, it's your estimate that the number 500 is too large. I was talking about religious communities, religious communities, and the church aren't the same you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9895	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9896	Dear President of the Parliament, there are a lot of issues for colleagues in two minutes that Mr. Pecnik is our colleague here, which he was talking about. The sect, the religious community has differences here. You have Quakers, shakers, they're extinct and they didn't believe in procreation, and it's not reasonable that every head that gathers 10 people forms some kind of religious community, it's not even reasonable. You have Talmud, the Koran and the Bible and these are... faiths. On the subject of hate speech and what is hate speech when someone is talking about Croats? You have Mr. Matu Kapovic who forgive me for saying "Serem at Bleiburug". You have a Julian landscape there, Macelj, Slovenia you have 20 Srebrenicas and no one, no one reacts. You have an example. where they were talking about necrophilia about Croatian saints and when they were bowing up Marshall Tito's Square, down the flower house about it nobody cares about, nothing. Is the fundamental human right to know the truth? What about media and party cells? As we can expect fundamental human rights that we know the truth when party cells only deal with the constitution, etc. How long are we gonna let them bully us, harass a minority of the majority and we always keep quiet or apologize to someone? That's what needs to be done. We're still on this side of the Berlin Wall, we're looking over the wall and someone else is making a picture of us out there, nothing. What about muddying in the media, lying? If someone calls me an ugly name, they're lying about me what can I do? I've been waiting 20 years for a denial and none of that. This should also be discussed a little bit, and this turboty that is deliberately promoted to divide the Croatian people should be put to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9897	Thank you. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9898	Thank you. Dear colleague, you have mentioned the number of members of a community who wish to form themselves as a religious community. I don't know the number, I'm just talking, and I know the experiences in America, I know what they're like in the world, and those who advocate or are members of some minority community that's not traditional in Croatia, they don't stand a chance, they have to be founded as an association of citizens. What I really think is a fundamental denial of their religious and religious rights. But... if the numbers are crucial then the Jews are sect in Croatia. But, of course not, it is one great historical community that has entrusted Croatian culture, Central Europe, the world etc. But as you look at numbers, it's not a crucial number. That's how much I'm talking about the need to think about it. And when you talk about hate speech, so you know if you tell someone, I'll only mention one in a series of last ones, that if they don't like you, let them look for a better environment. You know, then it's the majority, the expression of the majority people, not that he thinks so, but members of the majority people. And then ask them to protect the majority of the people is ridiculous. You have to protect those of us who are minorities, even though you don't like us. As long as we respect the laws, while we pay taxes and we're normal people and at least I believe normal people who think differently. But if you're afraid of a difference in opinion, that's the problem. I'm not afraid of what you're saying, but I want to choose my right to say that I don't like it or that I think it's a problem. So learn a little about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9899	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9900	Dear Vice President, Croats and Croats, for the third time today. Mr. Pecnik, I'm going to go back to old Rome, no colleague of Ingrid's. In ancient Rome, I heard it somewhere, I probably read it poorly. They said that in public places they should speak honorably or at least those who speak the truth. I am endeavoring to show you the truth, especially to all of you who have been given the ideology of some past times, past wars that no one remembers, nor the oldest resident of this House, so I wanted to show you a newer history of what is true to which you have deafed for only one reason not to hear the truth, that you may remain in your old truth. I'm surprised to you who are from Osijek, who well know where the white hill is, where it started killing dogs next to the tarab. It was about the Croats, he knows both Mr. Mile and Mr. Juhas and many others around here what I'm talking about. So in this country it was allowed and invited to kill Croats as dogs next to the tarabs. And they did, that's how they killed them exactly that way. And not just by the tarabs, but by the gardens and the rest. How do you think about the hate speech? Let's say I'll tell you an example. The hate speech was said by that remote resident who was repeatedly raped and who remained pregnant in that rape, and maybe her hate speech was, maybe she should have told you guys you were good. Is that what we're gonna talk about? Or say hey, that's my daughter, so don't touch my daughter. I'm only telling the truth the way I've experienced it. I don't know how you've experienced it, but I can see that you're successfully trying to cover it up as well as what happened on Bleiburg and on many other sites. There are two truths, one truth and the other. Both should be properly presented, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9901	Thank you. The esteemed colleague will respond to the esteemed representative, Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9902	Mr. Culey, I really deeply respect your brother's sacrifice because I know what this is about. And I'd be the biggest creep if I didn't admit it, 'cause you can't admit it. I wasn't at the opening, but later I went to the exhibition that was there. And I think it's enough and to look at it, I just couldn't come for legitimate reasons. So if that bothers you, I'm sorry, I'm really sorry. But now this second thing you've been saying, you know that I'm engulfed in ideology, that I want to hide the truth. Well, I've been writing and saying what I think for years. And if I was fed up with ideology, probably in the former system, I wouldn't be controlled by the internal organs that you have the documents on then. So, obviously, I wasn't exactly in the mood, I wasn't so fed up with ideology. But that's bullshit, because following me was a waste of time, I admit it right here. But unfortunately, that system worked that way. But don't, don't do something you don't know how to put, turn into a general... It's just not polite. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9903	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9904	Thank you very much. Well, in your speech, you've touched totalitarian regimes, grandeurs. However, when it comes to totalitarian regimes, I would like to say that it is not only the greatness of NDH's totalitarian regime, which is of course, but also the totalitarian regime. So we have a five-point star and a "U" and Ustasha symbols that should be banned in the Republic of Croatia and one and the other. So we can't be selective about it. So we have the Croatian state right now, the Croatian coat of arms, the Croatian flag and the Croatian anthem and that's what it's supposed to be. And NDH or the communist totalitarian regime, so these features in Croatia should, of course, be banned, but both. Because that's where we create these very divisions, so here we all remember the great man who is my Signan. That's the Mika Tripalo who said '95. In the third month in this House, let us turn to the future by looking at those young men and girls who participate in the defense of our homeland in the Homeland War during the great Serb aggression who did not ask each other whether they were sons of those or these or Ustasha or Partisans, whether their parents were on the other side, on one side or that side during World War II. I think it's time for the totalitarian regimes to condemn one and the other, and that's the only way we can and the defense attorney in this way must react, not glorify one or the other. Thank you very much. Or in his speech just implicate one, means both totalitarian regime and one and the other is absolutely the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9905	Thank you. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9906	Well, I think I already said something about it today, but I'll do it again. So really no one can defend the system I don't know... If I didn't count, you could talk about it all you want. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's all a crazy man can do. But I'm just warning you of one thing. We need to look at modernity, we need to watch what is present with us today. And you can't say or at least I don't see it, I'm not that blind, so enlighten me that what comes from the right hand, from the level of the whole of Europe, is a great danger that can be born not with us in Croatia. We're a small country, but we can become a part of it, unfortunately, as it was before. And there's so much to talk about, not because someone's stuck it on someone's nose, so you're there, you're right, I don't know the Ustasha, you're the left communists. That's ridiculous. And when you mentioned Mr. Mike Tripal, I'm glad you mentioned him, because that's the man I wrote a great text about, it's in the book about Mickey Tripal. Well, I guess that's some kind of proof, too, so some kind of detolitarianization thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9907	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9908	I listened carefully to you and listened to you for years and on television and I understand everywhere that we should all respect minorities and give them the opportunity to live in Croatia nicely and comfortably. But I also think they have the same obligation to respect the state, they don't have to love it, but they have to respect it. But from my point of view and your exposure, I have the impression that you don't like her very much. I know you loved Yugoslavia more. And as for minorities, I am giving them every advantage of people enjoying and respecting them, but you saw for yourself and our President of the Parliament the other day in Banja Luka, they didn't even put our flag on, and not even BiH. So much for respecting other minorities and those who are in Croatia. You keep mentioning our crimes, and you never mentioned any crime that happened to the Croats, which is unfortunate that you never remembered. I see that there are a lot of minorities in Croatia who respect them, but some of them will never seem to respect and will never be satisfied no matter what we would or how much we would do for them in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9909	A respected colleague, Željko Jovanovic, reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 232 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, in the last three lines. I'd like to ask my colleagues to concentrate on the debate on the 2015 Ombudsman's report. What is happening, these three last replicas are actually an insult and reports from the attorney general and everything this House needs to represent. Let's focus on this report and discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9911	Thank you. But it'll turn out that now all the replicas of the Rules of Procedure's injuries are broken. Since you have not responded to the first and second then perhaps this third is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure either. Yes, Comrade Pecnik, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9912	Well, I think this discussion used something. I was just after the pay phone talking about the senselessness of such rhetoric, meaning that someone is taking the right to be a moral arbiter and to judge whether or not they love someone. That's exactly what's going on. And whether I loved Yugoslavia or not, how can you know that? Where did you get that? Or some service, yeah, maybe that. I don't know. Anyway, I don't think we should talk like that. And as for the crimes of speech, so again I refer to what I said whether I should talk about what is happening in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and I live in Croatia, I want it to be good here. And so do I need to make an alibi for myself to say yes, but there was this, that, that and that, so that's where it happened? Why do you want such a discourse? Why can't you run away from yourself, from your shadow and constantly see enemies in everything that isn't hostile.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9913	Thank you. And please concentrate on discussing the report in question and preferably avoid going to other countries. I thank you in advance. We have another replica, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go. ... My apologies, dear representative Maria Budimir. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9914	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pecnik here in your debate you touched the hate speech, you touched the rights of national minorities. Personally, here I can agree, yes, the rights of national minorities and national minorities should be respected and they should be cherished and I will take the right to talk about it because I also worked in elementary school where classes took place for members of national minorities. I would like to touch the speech of the hatred of politicians themselves who, in their frequent presentations, speak about discrimination here are concrete members of the Serb national minority that reflect on our youngest. It is reflected in this way that they both in situations and when they are not discriminated against as a minority feel very superior to that majority, over children. Here is an example that children members of the Croatian national minority in primary schools in Vukovar have the recommendation not to wear a chess room or a Croatian team uniform because it provokes members of the national minority. I don't know if you can agree with that. Is that discrimination and is that insulting to anyone in our country? How do Croatian language professors feel when they are afraid to give a negative grade that they are teaching in Serbian language if they are to be called for discrimination, to be called when they give them a book that was a small war diary when members of the Serb national minority refuse to read it. How do members of the majority people feel? Does hate speech also feel for members of the national minority in that part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9915	Thank you. The honourable representative Jaroslav Pecnik will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9916	Of course none of the hate speech is exculpatory. I was just talking about protecting minorities because they're weak. But I can absolutely agree with you that hate speech is present everywhere in both majority and minority and in all other nations. At the end of the day, I'm Slovak, so I guess there's Mr. Juhas and I don't like Hungarians, do we? I'm kidding, of course. But I mean, everyone has their own pain. But there's a way to get over it, get over it. And I can agree with you that indeed, in the end, that part of Croatia you're talking about is really specific, and it will be a long time and a lot of evil has been done there. We can figure out a thousand different examples and we'll never get to the green branch. Maybe we should turn the page and do something different, a better way to go. I don't know, I'm not smart enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9917	Thank you. We're moving on to the next exhibit on behalf of the MPs' club. Dear Representative Mile Horvat on behalf of the SDSS and Reformists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9918	My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed attorney general with his associates. I will, on behalf of the SDSS and Reformers Club, try to analyse this report of yours and, of course, I will try not to enter or allow myself to interfere with the analysis of this report in this kind of debate that is beyond the context of this report. Because I think the subject that this report has handled is big enough that everyone can say a lot about it without getting into this kind of rhetorical bickering. So we're going to accept this report because, like the previous report, it's done very well, very professionally. In the assessment of the situation and the recommendation is very unbiased, therefore it is said of a very high-quality study which has well analyzed, scanned the state of society, in more, by several segments. And that's why I don't think there's a report from a colleague today in the debate, or a statement from a colleague in the debate that said that this report led to a division in society. Of course, such a report cannot lead to division in society but can only point to the causes that led to certain divisions in society. Of course, it is a perfectly correct finding by the President of the Parliament that these should be the civilization standards that we should pursue, in the end we and the EU are signatories of certain declarations that should regulate certain segments of society. I will, as a member of the Serb community, say more, but I will focus on several topics in this report that I consider important to highlight. It's a very serious analysis and assessment of the situation by us in the analysis of the judiciary, the situation in the judiciary. So the prosecutor says in the report that 275 complaints in the area of justice were received during 2015, and they mainly refer to the work of the courts, the length of the proceedings, the abuse of office, the judges, which leads to certain mistrust in justice and a fair trial. And that's the key thing because these are the basic standards of justice in European countries. One example suggests that, for example, a procedure in a work dispute that should naturally be an emergency procedure is being conducted for 16 years. So a work dispute involving the existence of a man is being conducted for 16 years during which the county court has decided three times on legal remedies, three times the Supreme Court and two times the constitutional court. The county courts have made three entirely different decisions in this case as well as the Supreme Court. And then the question arises what is the amount, what is the amount of legal certainty and senses of legal certainty for people who seek the protection of fundamental rights against our judiciary. It is also said here and pointed out that the DORH does not respond to the attitudes of the citizens or does not fulfil its legal obligations to be carried out. Budgetary funds for free legal assistance as a special institute that we have introduced to help the poorest seekers of legal protection are only slightly increased but they are so insignificant that they simply threaten the sense of equality of citizens before the law. And that's what we need to talk about. State administration offices shall decide on requirements which last for more than 90 days and when these requirements last for more than 90 days, when resolved after 90 days, the expiry of certain pre-inclusive deadlines and by law alone, the party seeking protection from state offices has been suspended. These are things to talk about. In 2015, as much as 67% of citizens' procedures were increased with regard to discrimination. The length of the procedure is also something that is characteristic of our civil proceedings. And we know what the fact of a fair trial and a timely trial means. It is the quality of the judicial apparatus when the proceedings are within a reasonable period of time, when they end within a reasonable period of time. In addition, the instance of seeking protection from the International Court is the consequence of the fact that it is not being tried within a reasonable period of time. It's the mirror of our judiciary. In this section where you refer to the rights of the national minorities, of course we could open the issue of the now-equal use of the official language, we talked about it many times, we see that it will be a subject that will probably extend in your next reports. Advocacy in state administration bodies, so we know that there is a certain government commitment action plan, that there are some percentages to be respected, representation of members of national minorities in the affairs of the state administration. And we know, we're aware that it's not being respected. And you'll never respect it in a way to reach that kind of high standard. The very fact that employment is prohibited in the offices of the state administration is sufficiently said that this percentage will never be respected. The fact that when one member of the national minority retires to his place comes a member of the majority people. So there are a number of things that confirm that this representation in the bodies will actually be a sub-representation in the bodies of the state administration. I am not going to open the Cyrillic issue here in Vukovar because it is likely that, during the debate, they will turn in another direction and this would be discussed in what way the body, the representative body of the city of Vukovar, will abuse the Constitutional Court's decision and how it has spread its Statute which is now again before the Constitutional Court's assessment, so we are spinning in circles. And this will be a thing that will revolve around with the goal of finding no solution that would suit both the majority and minority people. In the registration of minority schools, we have raised one key question, the issue of non-compliance with the law. Therefore, minorities do not require that they be particularly nurtured, they should not be a special flower in this country, minorities are asked to respect the laws that have been passed in this Parliament and that are passed especially on that part of the sphere of their interests, and when these laws are respected in the way that we have brought them here, then minorities will be cherished. He'll feel that the members of this community are in the right way. Thus, no floscules should be used because the reality of minorities speaks otherwise. I am saying this from the fact that if we changed the Law on Education and prescribed the conditions under which the founding right can be transferred from county to primary schools, to local self-government when it comes to the registration of minority schools and when all the legal assumptions are fulfilled to transfer this founding right and then not passed because the County Assembly of Vukovar-Srijem County says we will not pass it on to you. And despite the fact that Serbs have the right to register their schools as well as Italians, Czechs, Hungarians and all others, they will not do so because relations are as they are and do not have to be applied to the law and the law is not respected. That's the problem. Given the times, I'm going to say a few things that we've been saying all the time and what's the problem, de facto. We still have the process of rebuilding the family houses not ending, we have the process of housing not ending. We have a series of demands. I can now talk about a great deal of figures that it is still about a thousand 464 unsolved items for the restoration of family homes in the area of Like, in the area of Karlovac County, Vukovar-Srijemska, etc. We have the State Department for Reconstruction and Housing who didn't finish the job that was supposed to be done. I don't know when it's gonna end if we haven't done it in 20 years. There's a great lack of urgency and a great slowdown of public administration, so those offices that are from the State Department of Housing, competencies transferred to county offices, an absolute obstruction of the resolution of these cases we have. And that's the problem. If, for example, it is. The city of Zagreb took over 689 items and solved 16 of them, so what do we have to talk about? If the Carlovakia County has been taken over from the State Office, DUUDI from the state housing office 504 cases and 22 cases have been solved so far and human destiny, the roof, the existential thing, is the roof over its head. Then what are we talking about? We're talking about deliberate non-compliance with the regulations regarding that part of life that concerns members of the Serb community? Buying apartments is a special story. The other day they had a very interesting discussion about DUUDI, about state capital, so we have dead capital in apartments we're not going to sell. We're not going to sell because potential users should be Serbs, customers of it, and then we're setting them up with special obstacles and that's the amount of ransom. The statistics say that the purchase of apartments has been submitted to 1443 demands so far, it's been realised, 403 contracts have been signed and only 133 has been signed, so for 3 years it's taken, it's probably three more to sign another 400, 500 housing contracts and we're talking about how the government's register is empty, we need money, I agree with the need for money, the apartments are state property, let's sell them. Why didn't we do that? Why it takes someone to keep thousands of apartments cemented, and we don't use that value for any other purpose. We've always said there's a problem with electricity, we're probably bored on the subject, but I have to say there's still 80 settlements that don't have electricity. 283 users have no electricity. That's what I was saying to the last government. That's what I'm saying to this government. The whole job costs 30 million kuna. Is it possible in this country that 30 million kunas cannot be found in this budget to bring electricity into these 80 settlements? Is it possible that HEP can be made out of profit, and profit has a hundred million kunas each year? So the larger team, the annual HEP team, than the need to complete this electrification, or we'll tell Nikola Tesla to take a peek at one eye this year, there's no electricity in Lica, and we'll tell people to buy those candles again, so next year they'll live next to the candles, kids will go to schools, etc. etc. And it's all worth 30 million, and it's not done by the previous government for a variety of reasons. From what we've seen in the budget, obviously this government won't do either. So these are things that are of life's, existential importance to certain people. I don't tell demagogue stories here, I don't even ask for an ideological identification on the left or right. I'm talking about people's problems. But the government is here to solve the problems of all citizens, including the citizens of Serbian nationality. I could open here a question of outstanding damages to property that was destroyed during the war, outside of war space, someone's house was mined for no particular reason. It's been 20 years since we've done anything to repair these objects and compensate those people. There are over a thousand such demands. I have a case of a man who's been applying for damages since 2003, the kind of damage so he can rebuild the house, move into the house. Since 2003, he has been unable to move in, so his house has not been restored. What's this about, then? Do we want to build such a society with such lags, and that doesn't cost money? It just requires a certain political will. And just to bury on various agencies if we saw how much various agencies spend on their team and other costs that are not related to direct business, we'd have enough money to get all these things I've just said, which I could still count on not to time-out, and then we'd have satisfied citizens and then we could say that in this way we provided certain care to the members of the Serb national minority. We will accept this request, or this report in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9919	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9920	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Horvat, I don't really want to rephrase to you, and I can really support your debate in a large way. I agree with her. However, I would like to correct an impression. You said at first that you disagreed with one representative who said that the lawyer was responsible for the division in society, sort of like that. Well, here you have not named me by name, but I consider myself called thinking that you may have misunderstood. Because in my debate, I shared in society in another context and spoke and were not referred as a critic to the lawyer but as an invitation to respond to such divisions. So I'm going to quote sentences only where I talked about divisions in society. In 2015, it is specific that in the campaign for the presidential parliamentary elections there was a lot of hate speech and division of society on us or on them, Fascision charges, inappropriate attitude towards elected members and representatives of the government, etc. etc. And the next time I say that, I call on the Ombudsman to publicly talk about such negative phenomena when society is divided into us or those, when one totalitarian regimes are criticised and condemned, and not some other regimes, etc. etc. Here's clear if I've contributed to the resolution of some false understanding or to conveying this report of mine is in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9921	The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9922	My dear colleague, I didn't think you said that. Here's what you said. Now I get it. But I'm glad, I gave you a chance to explain your position, so that it doesn't remain unclear to the D.A. and to the rest of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9923	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Horvat to single out a minority in Croatian society with all the shortcomings he has, however I think they have a good status cannot say that the Croatian State did not invest everything after the Homeland War to recover all its capacities, to recover these areas either in construction or in human relations. I can tell it myself where I live. The minorities, of course, are the wealth of every society and the attitude towards minorities is about democracy, essentially about the attitude towards people. However, in a place where I live the same problem my children have as well as children of Serbian nationality because they live hard people in those environments that are underdeveloped. However, I would like to stress that in other countries towards Croatian citizens, i.e. The same applies to Croats as minorities in other countries. But that's not the case. You need to build relationships. But only to mention, mentioned at one point and Cyrillic and Latin is a much less important letter in Vukovar how important jobs are. I'm sure we'd talk less about Cyrillic after 15, 20 years of bloody war if jobs had opened. And those people would build, they'd grow old, and they wouldn't have had any fun with that stuff. Therefore, we all have the same problems. The problems need to be solved by most and minorities, and going back to some ideological division or letter this or she thinks she's a smaller priority now, the higher priority is jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9925	Thank you. They'll be speaking to the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9926	Dear fellow Bull, I didn't want to make any ideological or any division in my debate. I was just stating the facts and asking one question, so 2016 after 20 and a few years we didn't move with certain things. So we didn't move. We did something. We did most of the work during the government of Ivo Sanader and then we had a decline in the trend of solving the existential issues of people who want to return. So that's what I'm talking about. I can say that and the numbers. I said there's still 1400 and some demands unsettled to rebuild the houses. I said there are over a thousand 500 demands to buy apartments where people have to live in some way, and they're not allowed to. There are still about 6,000 housing claims left on the PPDS outside of the PPDS. So it's big things. And why we brought ourselves as a state to the situation that after 20 years of talking about it when there was a good time and more money than it is now to get rid of such things.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9927	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9928	Dear Vice President, Croats and Croats! Dear colleague, I don't know where I'd go but how long would it take for the Croatian people to bend down and ask forgiveness to all those who have done wrong? What is this level, the point to which we should bend down and say really forgive so that it is more forgiven? I commend you for not going back to that war, really good for you, to take care of this past and the consequences of that last war. If a soldier were to make a deal with a soldier, it would be great if politicians didn't get involved. Any soldier would have made a deal. I am a living witness to this because the Serbs in the surrounding places voted for me and gave me their voice, even those who fought with me on the front line. A member of the Arkanites voted for me. Can you imagine how I felt when I heard that? And I'm also glad you said about the renovation. My village is between three Serb villages, three Croatian villages populated by the Serb population. We have Ostrovo, Gabos and Karadzic. In Gabos, we restored the church, Karadzic is gone, in Ostrov it was not even destroyed. In Jarmina, we had to rebuild our own. I've restored my house myself. It was knocked down by 7 grenades of a tiny 82mm. And I don't mind, there was a war. But if we haven't learned from this war then we need to go among our voters, let voters say their opinion of us as politicians, as people and as those we represent and should represent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9929	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9930	I don't know if I should answer this, and I could, I'd have something to say. A colleague is constantly starting the replica of President of the Parliament, Croats and Croats, obviously it does not apply to us others who are not. Well, then I guess there's no need. And it's not good, and I could say that we put the whole thing differently at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9931	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9932	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As for the registration of Serbian schools in the past term, the SDSS was a coalition partner and there was no pressure from the SDSS leadership that the then government registers these minority schools as Serbian schools because they have been functioning for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9933	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9934	Dear colleague, two things. The first thing I don't see is why you should be bothered if the founding rights for these schools are passed on to municipalities that are then ready to install in their budget the costs of maintaining those schools. So it's their risk and to say their budget burden, but people have decided to do it and they've accepted it. Their councils of municipalities, so they took the job. In the last term, this was not an opportunity because only at the end of last term was the law amending that allowed local or regional self-government that owned schools to transfer ownership rights to municipalities. And so, I just now insist on the fact that the law is being respected and if we did it now a year ago, we did and brought these amendments to the law and, in a formal legal sense, made it possible to do so why not do so? Why is that a problem? What's the fear of a school in Bobota? What's the fear of a school in Vukovar? What if it wasn't fear of 10 schools of colleagues in Istria? What's this about? And I'm telling you, if it were to be registered knowing the situation in 10 years, there would be no participants, because by nature, children would go where they think it's useful. But if the local self-government has requested this transfer and there is a legal regulation that obliges the county to do so I ask the question why doesn't the county do so? How is it possible for the county to break the law? And that's the fact that I'm interested in, we put everything else aside and we can politicize everything. But the fact is that there is a legal obligation and that three conditions of law have been met cumulatively, and then the County Assembly says no, we won't do that. That's the thing that interests me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9935	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9936	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Horvat, if you have listened carefully to the replica of our colleague Culei, your colleagues and colleagues have begun, so I believe he welcomed us all with this supplement he had. But that's by the way. I agree with much of your report. And I am absolutely giving you the right to fight and through reports like this, and believe that the reports of the civil defenders anywhere and in the world's most ordered countries always have something to write and have something to say. As objectively as they look at it, it's up to us MPs here to evaluate and see it. But in the most polite, most democratic countries, countries that did not have traumas like our people also have public defenders to talk about and write about. And I'm going to say what made me the most of all. Believe me, I am very happy that you have spoken of this speaker and fought for the interests of the population of the citizens who, through this report, may have been differently regulated from your corner. You would also be very happy to help the Croatian minority in the neighbouring country that they have the same right to address and to ask, through a report by another member of the staff and they do so at least if you are not satisfied, but at least as much rights as you are, and I don't think and I am not fluent, I am truly happy and proud that both you and Italian, and Slovak, and the Czech Republic and anyone from the national minority here in the Croatian Assembly can so clearly and loudly articulate their needs and would be very happy that also in other countries, Croats in the parliaments of these countries can advocate their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9937	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9938	Dear colleague, the first thing about the Ombudsman's report is an absolutely professional report, according to my assessment. I believe that a colleague would not mind if you denied the arguments but not by politicizing things, but by arguing some of the facts you dispute from this report. The other thing is that there is always one issue of parallelism between the rights of the Serb community here, the Serb national minority and the Croatian minority in the Republic of Serbia. Neither the context is the same, nor some other facts are the same, nor is it good, and we want no parallelism to be withdrawn. They live in that country, we live in this country and we respect this country, and we respect the regulations of this country. I have made three oaths to the Constitution of this state, more than any other. But we need to talk about facts. No one has ever told members of the Croatian community in the Republic of Serbia how they use their voting rights. On the natural threshold that is the electoral model at the moment in Vojvodina, it took about 6,000 votes to enter the Vojvodjan Assembly. Why doesn't the Croatian Community join together, why doesn't it have its own party and its party, its party with the Croatian minority sign, go to elections and benefit from the right of natural rights? No, but they are going to their representatives within some political option right now is the DS, the Democratic Party. And they go as they go. They have one representative. So that's what we need to talk about. They have such an electoral model, I'm not saying it's perfect, I'm not saying it needs to be changed, but at the moment the capacity of this electoral model is not the happiest use by the Croatian minority in the Republic of Serbia and that's the fact, it says mathematics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9939	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative, Maria Budimir.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9940	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Horvat, you spoke of respecting the law, we know that we need laws in order to regulate social relations in all areas and education. You referred to the violation of the Law on Personal and Medium Education that you are here, you wouldn't talk about the history of passing that law, and you yourself said that last year there were amendments and additions to that law. I don't think you're being honest enough with me in your presentation of the grounds for demanding the founding rights of the surrounding places in Vukovar-Srijem County, transferring the founding rights from the county to the local administration. What does it mean that schools get through the transfer of founding rights to local administration? They get school boards, appointments of school board members. The school boards shall adopt the statutes of primary school or secondary school and shall elect a school principal. Why is the statute important? The statute is important because the statute refers to the way children are educated by members or students of that school. You did not say that in previous years these same minority schools have become according to the Commercial Court of Statutes which the Commercial Court has returned because it is said to be teaching, so in elementary schools in the City of Vukovar, and it is written in statutes, that teaching takes place in the Croatian language and Latin letter and model A for members of the national minority in the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. These schools from the vicinity of the town of Vukovar are looking for and have thrown into their statutes the schooling of children in Croatian and Latin letters, as they will say when such statutes are passed, my dear colleagues and colleagues will not enter any Croatian children in the vicinity of the town of Vukovar, because they will not be organised in these schools in the Croatian language and Latin script. We have some schools that also refuse to organise classes for which students would take classes in Croatian language and letter, and these students travel to other schools where such classes are organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9941	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9942	Dear colleagues, I see you've been dealing with this problem a little bit, but you haven't finished yet. So it's not exactly what you say. There's exactly an education program that verifys the ministry, it says. So there's nothing unknown, unspeakable, vaguely, according to the official education program of this country, children are educated by A model, right? So according to the A model... What's the problem? Members, therefore Croats, students, Croats choose which model they will choose and it is not true that they are not there, there are and they are not denied the right to, you nod but that is so. We want to have registered schools that will be registered in Serbian language and letter, education by A, B, C model according to programmes certified by the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Croatia and controlled by the Ministry of Education and Inspectorate. And if I can have that, my colleague, if it can have such 3 in Baranja and Hungarians if I can. If my colleague Furio Radin is like 30 and there's no question of what's problem 3? What's the problem with Borov in Vukovar and in... ? What's the problem? The problem is you won't get it. That's the fact that you're breaking the law. If the law is allowed for Hungarians and colleagues of Czechs and colleagues of Italians why the law is violated, that provision also violates that right in relation to members of the Serb community. And nothing happens outside the education system that regulates the ministry and controls the ministry. Well, for God's sake, no one is so much that they're going to do things against the law of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9943	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the club MOST Independent Lists esteemed representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorney general, the esteemed fellow MPs and counsellors. We will accept this report, the Most Independent Lists will accept this report. It's made really studioy. We have a few illogicalities that we're going to make here and the remarks but that's not going to change your mind about your work in any way and the report that we think is really right. During 2015, the office handled a total of 4655 items, which was already said to be 80% higher than in 2012. It's a number that worries. The truth in the report is that the figure is likely to be increased due to an increase in the number of offices, which people can sue. But we still think that the 19% figure on 2013 and 13% on 2014 are the figures we should be worried about. Most of the cases remain in the fields of justice, labour and service relations and discrimination, as well as in the areas of property legal relations and the conduct of police officers and enforcement. I think this fact shows that today our debates have completely missed the topic because we have discussed everything and at least these areas. What also concerns is the fact that during 2015, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison, the University of Zagreb, KBC Zagreb, and the State Office for State Property Management were not responding on an up-to-date basis. It is disrespecting you as an institution that has an immeasurable effect in this society and it is a very worrying situation. I hope this government doesn't go in the same direction. Citizens continue to complain most about labour and employment discrimination, representing 43% of all complaints and discrimination. What we also find inadequate and worrying is that there is no national anti-discrimination plan, i.e. It stops in 2013 and the new document is not yet spoken. Justice. During 2015, the Ombudsman received 475 complaints in the field of justice and the DORH does not respond to citizens’ representations and does not provide information on the state of the case although it is the constitutional obligation of all public authorities. It's one of many complaints about the operation of the DORH. Working relations, citizens are still under-informed about labour rights and ways of protecting them and many cannot afford legal assistance and expensive long-term court proceedings. The number of complaints and submissions in this area including those due to harassment or abuse in the workplace and complaints from the unemployed increased by 39%. Citizens complain of illegal cancellations, wage cuts, non-payment of increased salaries, irregularities in appointments and illegal termination of work contracts and non-payment of severance payments. Most complaints by employees in the economy and crafts indicate a simultaneous violation of a number of labour rights including irregularities in the termination of employment, illegal overtime, etc. Work and employment. The area of work and employment remains the most represented in your report and 124 cases are newly opened in 2015. Most often because of problems with finding work, moving to less paid jobs, harassing and violation of rights. Retired. Your report explicitly states that the elderly are and I fully agree with you among the most vulnerable groups especially those without any income. And yet no state support has been introduced for the elderly without pension. Out-of-institutional social services networks are not sufficiently developed and available. A milder income censorship for home assistance would allow more elderly people to stay in their own home and reduce the need for care. I must also point out that this assistance in the House of Government has abolished which has made their position in society very difficult. Even half a million and 228 thousand pensions, it was lower than the average, which is not enough to meet the basic needs of life. Now I'd ask the question, how important it is to a pensioner when he's digging through a container, is that container drawn in or a red star, I don't think it matters to him at all, and we've been doing these things again. All major cities and district headquarters are required to open shelters for homeless people but only 14 registered. The exercise, the executive procedure is not and must not be the source of the wealth of certain participants that has so far been the case. Here is the government and this minister will amend the executive law and for years it has been a means to enrich individual participants. Discrimination based on faith continued the trend of a small number of complaints and here it was also about discrimination based on faith in 2016 and I hope this will be found in this report. What I also noticed when I was studying reports from previous years, I found one illogicality, which is discrimination on the subject of age. While in 2009 as regards the indication of a certain age as a condition for applying for a tender for a scholarship, the Ombudsman considered that it was not discrimination although some cities have a provision that a scholarship could be granted to a student only up to 25 years. This report states that it is discrimination, so it would welcome the decision but turns out that there are contradictory decisions and between reports that vary from year to year. I repeat once again that we will support this report and hope that this government will give you much less work than the last government and I wish you as little work as possible in 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9945	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9946	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And my dear colleague, I would like to refer to one thing that you underlined in the report, which is, in particular, you referred to institutions or ministries, state offices and similar ones that do not cooperate with the attorney general's office, or do not respond to their instructions. In fact, I have been following this report for longer, here is my entire parliamentary term, and I can tell you that I am pleased to conclude that the list of ministries, the institution in general, which do not cooperate with the attorney, or do not respond at all to their memos much shorter than it was last year. I just hope that in the future it will be even shorter and therefore I look forward to actually a 2016 report to see if this trend continues. But if you compare with the previous years that list is significant I would dare say even more drastically short than it was to remember the first report that we discussed, if I'm not mistaken, it was for 2010 or even the 9th where that list of ministries was, it was actually easier to list the ministries that corresponded than the ones that didn't correspond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9947	Thank you. You will respond to the honourable representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9948	Thank you, Mr. Representative. So here I am also hoping that it will be less and you can be sure that if his ministers don't file reports and answer questions that they will in the House, because we don't care about party commitment, but whether someone does their job or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9949	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Shandor Juhas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9950	... And I think that even after this debate, it will need to increase capacity, introduce additional lines, because most likely another part of the youth will decide to take the West route. [[The speaker is not on, so it's on.]] In the beginning, I would say that I will support this report and will support the Club of National Minorities this report because the issue of human rights and discrimination is important for every community. We all want Croatia to be a civilized country, full of freedom, understanding and prosperity, and therefore it is important that the recommendations in this report begin and apply, not to be transmitted year by year and year, one and the same. The report mentions that almost every fourth complaint on discrimination as a basis of discrimination, race, ethnicity or skin color and national origin is mentioned. The problem has been highlighted that there is still a public demonstration programme, not tolerance against minority groups at all. We regret and regret that no national anti-discrimination plan has yet been developed, which would be an extraordinary platform for combating discrimination since in 2015 a full 67% increase in the number of civil proceedings related to discrimination has been made. It is of great importance to focus on the education and information of citizens because it is the key to eradicating stereotype attitudes and prejudices that exist towards certain groups. I agree with the attorney general that structures at national and local level still need to show democratic and political maturity and that it is therefore necessary to put forth efforts to promote awareness both in education and in the media and the value of minority languages as an integral part of Croatia's cultural heritage because this is what will contribute to the tolerance and respect of different ethnic groups. The emphasis is here on the integral part of Croatia's cultural heritage. Because quite often and I'm here on many occasions about it we didn't fall from Mars. There are those who have lived in this area for over 1,000 years and have contributed significantly to the development of Croatian culture. I'm showing dissatisfaction with the fact that the five-and-a-half-percent representation target of the membership plan for members of the national minorities in the state service has not yet been realised. Furthermore, in previous discussions, I was talking about the fact that public television still does not have a clear concept of the minority programme. And I think it's quite clear that it needs to be changed. I also draw attention that the councils and representatives of national minorities are still not perceived as an integral part of local and regional self-government. We are also not satisfied that last year's recommendation, which has been repeated for several years on the need to amend the Council's Register Act, the coordination of councils and representatives of national minorities, would be granted or classified as non-profits by representatives of national minorities. This problem has been going on for many years and it has been creating major problems, extremely big problems for representatives of minority communities who are then serving their OIB, and then we have an example that several years ago in Zagreb a representative of the German national minority went home to the drum because such things had been done before that could not be corrected. I have already stressed that the state and issue of human freedoms is extremely important for the position of a community and to create perceptions about a society. It's common for us all to have a habit of hearing what we love, to overestimate ourselves. However, in order to create a real picture, it is sometimes necessary to hear what others think. I'm not talking about Ustashas and Partisans, I'm not talking about buying the country, that's what they were talking about the other day, I'm not talking about buying the apartments, and we talked about it the other day, I'm not talking about the return of the taken property from '45, '46. A year. I won't even talk about the fact that some of the settlements still don't have water, and they're being run by the highway. I'm not going to talk about a problem that comes especially out there with us, free kindergartens, free books, etc. I'll speak and read to you what others think of us. And here's what others think of us. Here is what the fourth opinion on Croatia adopted on 18 November 2015 in Strasbourg. Under one, care for minority rights should be made a priority and integral part of the Croatian Government's human rights programme, and in close cooperation with minority representatives to develop effective mechanisms to ensure that members of national minorities are granted their rights without the negative consequences arising from the election. That's one. Under number two, systematically and immediately condemn all phenomena of nationalist and anti-majority rhetoric in public and political speech, in the media, and ensure an effective investigation and punishment of all cases of hate crimes and hate speech. Under number three, identify as a priority for the development and revitalisation of marginalised areas largely populated to members of national minorities in an unfavourable position especially for returnees and Roma through targeted infrastructure investments and creating opportunities for employment. That's what Europe says. On 12 May 2015, a debate was held before the UN Human Rights Council on the state of human rights in Croatia. 167 were recommendations addressed to Croatia. The truth that the human rights situation is not always measurable, but Croatia has accepted 162 recommendations. So not one, but 162 are accepted and I'm going to read them a little bit. Not to be, that we minorities always want something or that we don't fight left and right, so then we go back to where we don't have to go back. Here's what the Russians say. Ensure full language, religious and other minority rights in line with international obligations. Here's what the Norwegians say. Strengthen efforts to promote interethnic harmony through education and implement concrete measures to integrate minorities into Croatian society. Then they say in Austria. Take further steps and effective steps to protect and socialise the involvement of all minority groups. Romanians. To adopt detailed measures to ensure the participation of members of national minorities in the decision-making process. Well, then the Italians say. Increase efforts to combat discriminatory attitudes and behaviour towards all minority groups, including using their own language at school and interacting with public administration. The Germans say effective measures should be taken to end all forms of discrimination against ethnic minorities especially from the Serb minority and Roma. Swedishs say it is necessary to fully recognise the situation of minority groups and take measures to address challenges including the fight against discrimination against minority groups not only against the Serb and Roma minorities. Swiss. Continue efforts to facilitate the professional, social and economic inclusion of all national, ethnic and other groups represented in Croatia. Canadians. Full implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and measures to implement decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities. My Hungarians say this, continue with efforts to reach a 5.5% minority threshold in the total number of employees in line with the Action Plan for the employment of members of national minorities. That's what people say about us, that's not what Juhas says, that's not what we say in this fight. It's not always good to think like that. We think sometimes others should listen and then draw some conclusion from all of that. I'm not saying that this is a sacred letter, Croatia has accepted 162 and all these which I have now listed here are accepted remarks and we are now fighting and returning to what was, as it was 20 and change years ago, 70 and change years ago. And young people buy bus tickets nicely and leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9951	Thank you. We move on to replicas, the first one has a respected representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9952	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, I cannot without reacting to the assessment that in Croatia the state of human rights or discrimination is repeated year after year with an assessment at the same level. It's not like that, clearly and loudly. We're making progress and we're making significant progress, but that doesn't mean we have to stop. We can't stay calm. It is our mission to decide that we have room for progress and for ensuring human rights and fundamental freedoms and not to look at reciprocity as these rights develop in countries where we are interested. There's no reciprocity there. We organize our society, our country, our standards according to what we want, which we want in accordance with the highest standards. That's what I'm interested in. So it is not true, Croatia has a good trend and it should be welcomed. The attorney general has a good reputation, he sees things well and, of course, not everything. But let us accept what is indisputable, so we have that we do not respond to the bodies responsible for the Croatian Assembly of the Police Attorney. Our responsibility is here. We oversee the administration, the government and all institutions responsible for the Croatian Assembly, and the female attorney general does not receive a report from them. What are we gonna do about it? Let's make a deal. Let's take a step forward. Let's build a society that is more harmonious, that understands and respects one another. Let's not look at the political needs of the originals for us to stick together. We won't solve the problem like that. Not who's going to who, but how are we gonna get out of trouble? I think this is a sensitive question so we can discuss politics daily. There's a problem, but step by step we're making progress. And that's what the lawyer, the institution we've given confidence to and trusted by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, tells us. And thank God that's right. Step by step, let's go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9953	Thank you. The Honorable representative, Shandor Juhas, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9954	Thank you. Dear Mr. Leko, I am impressed by your calmness and I thank you for speaking so calmly. I might have a different intonation. I agree with you that there is progress and I didn't speak in that direction. Progress has been made, however, some of the reports or parts have been repeated. We can't say that we've done in all fields of progress. Progress has been made and Croatian society is moving forward. But the good part of it still stands. I mentioned some things, a question of buying apartments. Well, that question has been on the agenda for 20 years. The question of the return of the seized property in '45. A year. Well, that's already lying, so that's a problem from the last century, etc. If we don't point to those problems, who will? That way we have to push them and the whole society so little. In this sense, it is necessary to speed up this kind of progress, speed up this development in all segments.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9955	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9956	Dear Vice President, Croats and Croats, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Representative Juhas, Croatia's so-called Szeretlek. Is that whether or not the Szeretlek Croatia? By the way, that's where we'll find the szerelek. Now, I'm not talking about this, I'm not talking about the one I want to talk about! I'll speak for you too so you don't miss anything. I will speak for the minorities and for them because we did not fight only for the Croatian people but for all who were for the Croatian state. So I will also fight for the Hungarians of Laslova and Koroja, for there is no one to speak about them. I hope you can talk to the Hungarians on this side of the Drava who have found themselves in another environment. Also, since there are no colleagues, and I have to mention him, the same great protector, I'm not saying for you that you are not a protector, yes, but for one who represents a German national minority and perfect to perfectionism. The one who looks like the greatest soldier in some past time, and that's the gentleman who represents the German national minority. We've had the Day of Remembrance of the Banished Germans these days. Did anyone mention those exiled Germans who ended up in Valpovo and I don't know which roads along with our Bleiburg co-demands? Are we going to remember each other or the other or the other or the other or the other? That's all I wanted to say. Let's talk about everyone in the same way because they're all citizens of this country. Everyone made some contribution some more, some in the plus some in the minus. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9957	Thank you. The Honorable representative, Shandor Juhas, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9958	Mr. Culey, Juhas Shandor spoke at least three times last year about the injuries in Lasslova and the casualties in Koroje. There was no brick left in Lasslova. They're still looking for 11 of their dead. Read it in writing. It's the same situation in Koroje, the same situation in Koroje and not only in Koroje but also in other villages. And we're all talking about Vukovar, it's a great honor, Vukovar, but I'm saying Laslovo died more than Vukovar. And whoever doesn't believe should come and see what Laslovo looks like. There's no house left there. And as for the Germans last year, for 15 minutes, I was talking about the injuries of the Germans, the googogue they went through in 45 years, about 500 thousand Germans from all over Yugoslavia who ended up in Gakov, Valpovo, on the other hand in Bačka, who worked in the fields... to the unconsciousness. And when I said that not every German was a fascist, that not every Serb was a Chett and not every Ustasha Croat, then a colleague looked at me. But the story's over, so let's turn to the future, and let's get out of these stories because the bus is going, the bus isn't waiting.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9959	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9960	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Juhas, you are as temperament as all Hungarians are, and then your debates may sound more dramatic than they really are. But I wanted to refer to two things you mentioned. The first is a universal periodic review of the UN and the recommendations they made. So as you pointed out from 160 and some of the recommendations that were given were all accepted except 5. Now, it's up to us as a human rights committee but also as this home to monitor the implementation of these recommendations. That's why we decided to want a report in the middle of the review period, so after 2.5 years, let's see exactly where we are in these things. So you're going to look more at minority problems, I'm going to look at some others, but we want to see because the government has adopted all the recommendations except for these five, and none of those five are related to minorities. It will be interesting to see how this implementation will go. When you talk about monitoring the Council of Europe, I suppose when you talk about Strasbourg there have been some critical tones we have to say, but I would say that recommendations or criticisms call them by coming from Strasbourg are nothing special when you look at which recommendations and criticisms other countries receive. I'll agree with my colleague Lek when he says we're making progress and that human rights standards are good. But I'd put it in the past tense. Croatia has progressed. If only with the human rights situation of last year, you can think that it will be in the report for this year when the right to speak is severely restricted, when it is seriously affected by public television as a public service, when the vice president of this higher home, who brings laws to the Republic of Croatia, protestes against the implementation of these same laws. I wonder what it says in that report. That's what concerns me colleagues and colleagues. Is that what we need to worry about? What kind of picture are we going to send about Croatia this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9961	Thank you. The Honorable representative, Shandor Juhas, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9962	Comrade Hajdukovic, you're right, and 167 recommendations were, of those 167, 162 were accepted. So in those 162 recommendations, what we should be given is what the world looks at, the world looks at us. And that's for me to say one real picture, because everyone thinks of themselves as the most beautiful, that he's the smartest, but he seems to have to listen to others sometimes. I hope that we and our fellow civil defenders will analyze, observe and install it all into their next year's report. And what is certain is that there will be even more drastic remarks. The remarks will be, and last year we did a few of us, actually the National Minorities Club brought in one declaration and we were welcomed to the knife when we talked about ethnodrism etc. But it turns out that everything that we wrote last year on the 15th of May was written that before the end of the year and in these initial months this year, that's how it works. And that's all not included in the report yet. So the report that's coming, I don't know what it's gonna look like, but I think we have a lot to worry about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9963	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Representative Juhas mentioned buses several times today. Today I had the opportunity to attend a meeting with children from the Children’s Forum where a girl spoke about the same buses or more specifically about her family. About her father leaving and her sister and mom leaving soon, and so on. Germany. It gave me tears, and I got some kind of weird guilt. And now I've answered the line to reject that guilt. Me with that and those MPs who are here for the first time, I have nothing. They have those who have had power in their hands for years and haven't done anything, let them think about buses and let them mention them and we'll work to make them disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9965	Thank you. And the answer of the esteemed representative of Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9966	I don't know if you're thinking about me now that I have some kind of responsibility about it. I probably have as much as you do and as we all do. It's one process that's been going on that's been intensifying over the past few months and it can't get away from it. It can also not escape that it lasts but rather, from the fact that it lasts for years. But these discussions we've been having out there for the last three or four months have contributed greatly to that. You should have looked at the flyer of the one who shared graduates in the city of Zagreb yesterday to see why they did not throw flour but toss paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9967	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the esteemed representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9968	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed attorneys with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we're discussing a report by the attorney general for 2015. However, if I had decided to repeat my 2012 and 2013 and 2014 reports today, I would not have made much of a mistake. I wouldn't make much of a mistake because in 2015 it wasn't much better when we talk about discrimination and the exercise of the rights of national minorities and especially Roma. In this regard, the fact that until the submission of this report, the Government has not adopted the 2014 report on the implementation of the 2014 recommendation by the Ombudsman is not surprising. Why is that and why there is no interest in facing problems seriously and in society when we talk about the problem of the Roma national minority, I really don't know. In this respect, it does not surprise the urgent recommendations of the Council of Europe to our government, which clearly states that it is necessary to set as a priority for the development and revitalisation of legalised areas of largely populated members of national minorities in an unfavourable situation, particularly for returnees and Roma, through targeted investments in... and creating opportunities for employment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I pointed out this a few days ago when I asked for a break to warn about the problem of the absence of the implementation of the National Strategy for Roma and the still inexplicable fact of what would happen with the study scholarships for members of the Roma national minority and the scholarships of other students who have so far used this possibility through the current non-existent National Foundation for Support to student and student standards. The fact that minorities and students are not focused on the government's work is worrying and I'm warning you this for the last month. I understand there are priorities and a number of other problems but that doesn't mean that part of the system has to fail. The only thing that changed in 2015 compared to 2014 when we talk about the Ombudsman's reports is the number of complaints from citizens. The number of these complaints has increased dramatically. This is probably the consequence of the opening of the district offices in Osijek, Rijeka and Split, a fact that I also praised last year by saying about... On the other hand, the increase in the number of complaints must also be linked to the general atmosphere in society, i.e. the increase in hate speech and discrimination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I talk about hate speech and discrimination, it does not usually come from the institution, but from citizens, however, discrimination is not a measurable phenomenon. And especially since citizens, Roma have no need to report the most discrimination. They do not do so because they are used to the fact that from year to year the situation does not change, they feel the uncertainty that arises with them whether it is justified or unwarranted, mostly refer to trust with institutions. This contributes to the fact that the recent self-organization of the Roma in Zagreb is in order to protect themselves from the re-violence that has been demonstrated by throwing bombs close to the Roma kindergarten and by the fire in which one family has lost everything it has had. Such cases are not traditionally enlightened and the perpetrators are almost never found and punished. As was the case in Škabrnja, the rejection of children on the first day in schools in Međimurje, a child hit on Kozari roads followed by a comment as one gypsum less. Or cases of children who can't practice. Distrusting the institutions of the citizens I represent is certainly... The fact that these institutions are not identified because they do not see members of their communities, whether they are local police stations, whether they are governmental offices for human rights and the rights of national minorities whose work is not represented by their legal representatives from local levels or the fact that members of national minorities in public and state administration bodies are statistically significant and when compared to earlier years, their number is also in decline of 7.67% of the total share of national minorities in the population is only 3.4 employed by state administration authorities and professional services and government offices, and among them 3.4 of them the Roma community is from statistics probably 0,001 because we are talking about the number of Roma employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The so-called minority elections for the councils of national minorities record turnout of only 13.48%, which says many citizens do not know at all that they can vote for their representatives at these levels, municipalities, cities, counties. In short, members of national minorities continue to face the same problems do not exercise their rights guaranteed by law and are to a greater or lesser extent exposed to some form of discrimination. It is alarming that in every fourth complaint of 4655 cases under which the lawyer’s office has acted as a basis for discrimination, race, ethnicity, skin color, or national origin. Roma and Serb national minorities are most exposed to such procedures. However, what to do in such an atmosphere in which our citizens are shared by what they feel within themselves rather than being evaluated by their work, abilities, and actions. Recommendations, reports, well-intentioned political flossules are obviously not enough to influence this problem but we need to end the questioning, the existence of special rights for those who are most vulnerable, not only to national minorities but also to all socially endangered, pensioners, disabled and all others who must feel that they live in the social state, the democratic and social state that we must be under the Constitution. The situation on the ground is still different. Roma continue to live in isolated settlements while being deprived of their right to social compensation if, in a situation without access to public transport, cars use no value. Many villages in the past term have been realised at which I have worked very hard in the past term. Now it's time to urbanize them, to change the environment of these people. It is unacceptable that we are on social state paper and that on the other hand our citizens in the 21st century live without electricity and water. To address these problems at local levels, there is allegedly no means but if we cannot ensure a prerequisite for these people to integrate what is the point of keeping these issues out of the focus of the current policy. Why isn't that our priority? Why is that acceptable? There is a real desire after entering the EU to help these people or just to use them, only to show that we are democratic. Now that we have achieved our main foreign policy goals, Roma and other minorities are no longer important to us. During the biggest wave of refugee crisis, we have shown how we are able to deal with major humanitarian problems. However, the humanitarian problems of our citizens have become something that is acceptable and something that has become a lasting fact. It is a general view in society that Roma live like that and there is no help. But it's not like that. It's no one's tradition and culture to live in unsustainable conditions or not to like something they favor or choose. Poverty, inadequate nutrition, not tailored working conditions, according to the report, contributes to the development of a number of other problems, across all citizens and not just in Roma. In the long term, it is a huge burden for the health care system besides the social care system and sometimes it is because many Roma do not have access to health services and those who often have to wait for the back row so as not to mess up the majority office. It is amazing that we are still talking about how Roma are disabled from access to some catering facilities just because they are members of the Roma national minority and when this is not explicitly stated clearly and an ugly look of form is the pressure and discrimination you are dealing with if you communicate with people on the ground Roma very often. A recent example for the World Roma Day, on national television on the Croatian live show, we also had the opportunity to see a case of a young man who was not even a member of the Roma National Minority but lost his seasonal employment due to his dark path. The only question is how many of these cases are held by someone or how many of these cases have not been reported in addition to these nearly 5,000 complaints by the citizens. Those Roma who are working in accordance with the report, research is most often done by unskilled and poorly paid private sector jobs or public works, which does not solve the problem of their long-term employment and exclusion. Those who work through public works can do so within a short period of time and receive them 2400 kuna. These public works lead to situations where individuals, especially those with larger families, are more paid to sit at home and receive social benefits and work. This last measure of employment through public works is forced not to work, and we force and make disabled from working Roma. What we need is a new approach to the Roma and other national minorities. Although the Roma have been in these areas for nearly 700 years. Their culture, language and literature are not yet in school textbooks, the death of Roma during World War II in these areas is also not in textbooks. Only the current proposal for curriculous reform is trying to integrate these facts into our education system. It was only since 2015, 2016 that we remembered that there is something called Roma culture, not just music and dance. Roma in Croatia face a series of problems other national minorities do not have. For example, other than those with problems that I have cited, there is a large number of those who were born here. They've never left our country, and they've never been reported to the home office, so they have absolutely no rights. There is a need to find a solution for these people. It is alarming that, with this or that form of discrimination, every third citizen of our country is in line with the EUROBAROMETAR survey. Today, I spoke mostly of the Roma as those of the Roma who are at a higher level recognized as the most endangered. However, our society is globally suffering from a lack of political culture, a lack of culture of dialogue and a general deficit... general human values. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll talk about it until this House of Commons' report comes up with an attorney general's report in which Roma will not be particularly highlighted. Until the educational Roma work in public institutions and state administration bodies, until they live together with other citizens and until they come into the same starting position as everyone else. As long as it's normal for me to repeat the same facts every year I don't know. However, I am sure that this will be until all of us here together with the Government and ministers take a common position, and set goals to solve this problem after almost 700 years, to show that we can and know better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9969	Thank you. The replica was presented by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9970	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Keatazi, I want to support you and I want to say that you are proof that you can do otherwise. You are just proof that it can be otherwise, and for the Roma population, the Roma community in Croatia is not enough institutionally to solve the problem. That's a good order. So it has to be a social action. Social action means more, much more than institutional equality. I have contacts often in my party with Roma and Roma, and it is indeed a value that will be added to Croatian society and I think that there can be done much more than we have done. But the steps are made here. I've been to various Roma settlements in northwestern Croatia, and that's where the shifts are seen. But it must, there must be a social action not only institutional. Schooling, schooling, schooling. You have my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9971	Thank you. You'll answer? No, there's no need. All right. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9972	Dear Vice President, Croats and Croats, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Kajtazi. I do not believe that this bad thing happened to the national minority here in Zagreb in the Roma of bombs and those cases. It can only be done by a fool, someone as dishonest as the one who drew a swastika on the Man. The fact that it hasn't been investigated probably has roots in something or it's done for something. I don't believe that the Roma in Croatia are threatened for one reason because I have the same reason, I'm going to have to talk again about my relationships and friends in the White monastery. I have a friend, a friend of a horseman known to Roma who has dozens of his same friends working with him on his O.P.G. who also didn't get the incentive to do what Mr. Jakovina needed to give us. There may be some catch, but I'd like to say one thing. What's the difference between the Roma of the east and the Roma of the north? What's the difference between those Roma in Pitomaca who were all our star guides in the past system that we could go there on a field trip to see how it worked perfectly. I remember those carpets over the fences, so I remember on the road. I remember everything. And maybe we should all be educated and taken to places like that so we can see what's needed, what they've done to get to that level of development, and what these others don't. And on this trail should seek the leader and guarantee of our Croatian Homeland, our Government and go after its provisions, its decisions. And you don't have to go after Trazic, because now is not the time to walk after him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9973	Thank you. The honourable representative, Veljko Kajtazi, will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9974	Thank you. Dear colleague, a change in these areas as I've mentioned 700 years ago. We must all admit together that we have done very little and that the problem of Roma is not recognized by us, but recognised by the European Community, or the EU. Roma have a National Strategy for Roma that now includes housing and education, employment and health. On this point, I will bear in mind that the strategy was adopted in 2003 from 2005 to 2015. The national strategy from 2013 to 2020 I have to tell you, it's very little done. We tried in the last term a lot of things have been launched that I hope that what we did in the last term in my term of office that I will also continue to do for the Roma community. I call on both the government and all the ministers to join in and help the Roma community together. I also want to say that the Roma community cannot do it alone, and on the other hand we have to give them a chance. ... The Roma were an object, not a subject in solving the issue. [[You don't understand.]] When it comes to Roma from Pitomaca or from the north and second parts, I must tell you that in Virovitica-Podravska County, besides you and I both know that I have a lot of Roma, we only have 12 Roma in the entire county, in the entire Virovitica-Podrava County, we have 12 Roma declared. You might know, I don't know, and maybe you don't know what's the reason these Roma don't want to declare themselves? I'll only tell you one example. Last year, a family of Orsushes from Međimurje applied for a loan tender. They didn't make it. The moment they changed their name and last name to the same bank, they got a loan. That in itself says what you said we have in Pitomachi Roma. We have the Roma you and I know about, but we don't have them on paper. I'm very sorry we don't have them. I'd like them more too. So I call it all together, my colleagues and you and I that everyone who can do something to make a Roma community. The Roma community expects it from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9975	Thank you. We'd like to conclude today's session with this debate. We'll continue tomorrow with a follow-up debate on the Attorney General's report at 9.30 p.m. Thank you and good-bye to tomorrow!
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9976	Thank you. We continue with the item on the agenda Report of the Advocate General for 2015. I would, in the debate, report to Honorable Representative Gordana Rusak on behalf of the NSLS Club and Independent Representative Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Mrs Vidovic, you have given this House a report that touches all the neural points of this society. In that report, you don't go anywhere, you touch everyone equally, and thank you for that. This report of yours shows another important thing, and that's that you're personal, but also the team that you've surrounded yourself with an expert and that you know the problem you're talking about well. I conclude that on the basis of those areas that I know myself and which I consider competent. You sent a message to some of our politicians. I call them politicians of general practice who can discuss everything, from nuclear physics, GMOs to finance, collecting actually political points, that's not politicians, but point collectors, feather collectors, I'd say. They get up a little bit, they reach the surface because they're deep and they can't because they don't know her and then they come out of the hall and people think, they get their points together. But I'm not going to swim in those waters that I don't want to or go into, but I'm going to stick to those areas that I believe I'm competent to say and I have something to say, so I'm going to say that I fully understand what matters about education and science in your report and that there are a number of problems. In order for education and science to truly become the levers of society's development, the problems imposed on them by the system outside and viewed in their neglect and degradation should be deprived, with only one of these forms of degradation inadequately being financed. But also the system of science, education should solve problems within the system itself that certainly exists and this confirms this report by the attorney general. It is worrying that among the 6 institutions that did not respond on an up-to-date basis or who did not respond at all to the questions of the Ombudsman, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as well as the University of Zagreb are located. And I'm a member of the academic community, and I have to say, I'm extremely concerned about this. But that's exactly what's on the trail. The attorney general touched everyone, not everything, and she wasn't afraid to blame anyone. It's the only way. This data is worrying more about the fact that the number of newly opened cases in the staff's science attorney's office, education from 28 subjects in 2012 has increased to 59. Therefore, for more than 100% in 2013 and such a trend remained for the next two years. The Advocate General points out the importance of achieving social equality in the approach of education to all individuals in equal conditions. And we now return to one of the floscules we hear very often, which is that high school education in the Republic of Croatia is free of charge because for all students for the first year of study, tuition is paid by the state. But it's a flossula behind which is hiding something completely different. The cost of tuition is by no means the only cost of studying and in the fight for the naked existence students are rarely forced to ignore the study which leads to not collecting enough ECTS points in the first year of study that would allow them to cover their scholarships for the second year. And so once a student falls into a circuit of paying tuition out of it, it's practically impossible to get out. Many students do not fall into the circuit because of their laziness and incompetence, but because of the struggle for their own existence. More than a fifth of students come from families with incomes up to 1500 kuna per family member, so we must all be aware of the fact that higher education in Croatia is fully available only to students of better material status, which ultimately means that one significant part of the population is excluded from the higher education process. This is not only discriminatory, as the attorney general warns, but also fatal to society. This country will one day be led by people whose access to education has enabled their material status, and the question is whether it will be the most capable. If we add complaints about the non-transparency of student scholarships to this, which also warns the attorney general, the problem becomes even deeper. It also warns of another significant problem, which is the problem of high-level employment in the higher education system. As a rule, colleges do not have detailed systematization of jobs with detailed conditions to be met for each of them. Therefore, it is not surprising, although the following data are of real concern. More than 48% of those studied after the doctorate, watch out for employees in the system of science and V8sok education maintains that employment in this system is non-transparent and 49 of them is unfair. This is the opinion of those who have been employed in the system, and what a perception it would be if we asked those who failed to get a job in the system. In cooperation with universities, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports should ensure that special criteria laid down by the general act of the university or individual college are applied in the tender for higher education. And finally, the citizens of their complaints to the occupier are filed when they find themselves on the verge of despair, when they lose patience after unsuccessful attempts at solving problems and wandering through the system. Therefore, the dramatic increase in complaints by 80% higher in 2015 compared to 2012 clearly speaks about the hopelessness in which we are sinking ever deeper. It's only possible to stop if we make a drastic turn. On the pages of the Ombudsman's report, the recommendations made to the institutions concerned have been clearly highlighted. We have the right to ask them to take them seriously, and therefore I ask these institutions to take these recommendations seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9978	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9979	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Rusak, if I am not mistaken and yesterday you were also at a session of the children's forum that really was, I am sorry that such sessions of the children's forum should be held in this hall and all MPs should be present. Reason. You said about the students and I absolutely agree with you. However, it should continue to go on. And high school kids. You remember the letter of yesterday's little Lorena from Kutina. The elementary school girl who while she explained to us yesterday at the children's forum the situation for her schooling her father, the mother and sister are on a bus to Germany. And she was only waiting for the completion of that children's forum to join her parents. So, not only does this apply to students, but it also applies to high school students and elementary school students despite free schooling being basic. But through some other kind of material existence, family and everything else are your parents, this family and many others, mostly according to Slavonia yesterday, you saw really discriminated against. Therefore, this subject of discrimination should also be discussed, so, if we want to be honest and the relationship between rural and urban areas, discrimination should be spoken out loud and clear. Here's because it concerns this section of the student yes. But since you attended yesterday's session of the state, this children's forum, and you saw the situation of both high school and primary school education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9980	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9981	I fully agree with my colleague, and especially with that first finding that such children's forums should be held here in the assembly, so that everyone should tear up as we did yesterday when we listened to those children who talked about their lives, about how the father went to Germany and now he's looking for an apartment to pull the rest of the family. That the problem of education in Croatia is indeed a problem and that free schooling has been the issue since the earliest age, from primary school plus high school, college. We all know that. And if it were in my power, I'd do anything not to make it so. And I hope that we will have at least little steps to make it different someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9982	Thank you. Next in the debate is the distinguished representative Marija Ilic on behalf of the club HSU and Stipe Petrina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9983	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed attorney with the co-worker. The report, which has been substantiated to parliamentary representatives by the Ombudsman, is based first and foremost on the relevant indicators, is very extensive, done with a lot of effort to detect problems, and what is most important with the recommendations that are done in order to detect deficiencies and failures can be eliminated. Therefore, the club of HSU and the Independent Lists of Stipe Petrina will accept this report with a special reference to that part of the report that speaks about the problems of the retirement population, or of all the elderly and of course their social security. But what I have to notice at the very beginning, and what always bothers me over and over again is the beginning of the report in that part, i.e. the sentences with which the report begins, I quote: “The ageing of the population and the consequences that it has on social development is a problem in society etc., etc.” Of course, third-age people read that they are the problem, that they are the burden in society in which they live and that they are the culprits of all the evil in our society. Often in the circles of older people, especially in retirement homes and older people I have spent many times in, I would say a bit of a sad story about how politicians, journalists, all media and some groups of people call age a problem. The elderly, of course, belong to vulnerable groups, and therefore need increased care, the report said. Especially those without any income. However, it is still not sufficiently done and introduced that state support for older people is introduced without pensions or other incomes, regardless of what is envisaged by the strategy in 2001 and for which so far there are no convincing arguments why it has not come to life except that there is always no funding in the state budget and also in the recession, etc., etc. The fact that there are 120 thousand people living in Croatia over 65 years of age who do not receive pensions or other incomes and in 2015 they were granted the right only 6122 on this guaranteed minimum fee is primarily a sign of the criteria, i.e. the level of censorship which I would say to a social state is unacceptable. Do we ever wonder what the 110 grand left unsettled are alive? When it comes to guaranteeing a minimum fee, we hold that this particular group of older people is being discriminated against because it is fully incompetent, unlike those of the younger ones who are entitled to that fee and who let's say in some ways can and can help neighbors, etc. And then again, there's a curse. It is also necessary to revise the income censorship of the social service help in the house because we believe that the Institute of Help in the House is almost ideal. The information from the field is very positive and needs to be expanded precisely by reducing the censorship because the larger number of older people can stay in their homes, which is certainly the goal for all of us. Because according to polls we conducted locally, they all set themselves up and expressed their desire to stay in their home. In addition, the local community can employ heavily discriminatory women from 45 to 50 years of age. In addition to the ageing process of the population, Croatia faces unemployment, low pensions, gender and age discrimination, frequent reform of the social care system, privatisation of the health system, housing problems, and so on, the report also states. It is characteristic for Croatia that the systems of monitoring the situation of older people, people in society and family are not enough, there is no fact that Croatian society is getting older. According to the last 2011 census, 65+ in the total population is 17.7%. The system for protecting older people in Croatia I think it is insufficient. The lack of legal regulation and the absence of an arraignment institute for older persons. When comparisons with other age groups of elderly people are disproportionately more monitored by poverty in view of pensions, social exclusion and marginalisation, poor health care and other forms of discrimination. These data confirm that the elderly are a vulnerable group whose human rights in our society are not adequately protected. Global aging is there, it represents one of the greatest transformations in human history. The data suggests that the total number of older than 60 years on the planet will be more than doubled by major progress. So, according to the indicators, it will grow from 841 million in 2015 as much as it is recorded on more than 2 billion at a very soon time, but whatever reports would be not only this but also all other articles in the paper, in all the media, TV shows, start with one fact that we must not ignore in any way, and especially younger as most of what we have in basic capital, the foundations of our society from material, cultural, moral and innocuous goods that just retired people have contributed to it. And that is why the elderly must not be discriminated against and be the problem of neither ours nor any society. Unfortunately, there are fewer and fewer people who realize that the ageing of society and, in general, human civilization should not necessarily be a problem but a chance for development if this event I say approaches the scientific way that the UN warns and all, of course, in the interest of finding a solution to the third-age status of the population, about the collapse of stereotypes that old people are the problem of society. In careful analysis of the report as well as the proposals and opinions of the Advocate General, the Croatian Party of Retired and Independent List of Stipe Petrina, since it deals exclusively with the older population, will propose and propose the introduction of the Institute of Advocates for the Elderly and that we have already taken and prepared it. Of course, because of the economics and efficiency of all specialised defenders from the one for children, for gender equality, for persons with disabilities with the introduction and counsel for older persons, we hold that we should join the Office of the Attorney General but we will make that in our proposal that we make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9984	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said that often both politicians and people in public life cite age as a problem. And I absolutely agree with you that age must not be a problem of society, but society must systematically take care of the elderly and the powerless. We're talking about the 2015 report and you mentioned here that 120,000 people over 65 are not receiving a pension. So here's how our society and our country have been taking care of that category of older people over the last year. Sitting on property, blocking property, you know what money? For unpaid retirement. And you said here and yourself that they don't take a pension. So they didn't pay their pension, they didn't ask for a pension, and for that debt, their assets ended up being practically blocked. Should this report and the Attorney General’s Office react more strongly to the need to protect these people? Did she react to that? Has anything been done about it? I honestly didn't notice it in society. And not to mention what I said yesterday, which discrimination of older people we have with those who are located in the so-called so-called. social homes for old and powerless and those who are located in private. That's what you need to worry about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9986	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9987	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed colleague, reading the Attorney General's report, was extremely well-designed and based on exact indicators, and I said here in my debate. But it bothers me terribly, and it terrifies me when you constantly, not you, there's a lot in the assembly looking for reciprocity. I'm not interested in reciprocity, I'm interested in what happened and what the D.A. has shown that this problem exists and asks all of us to solve this problem. I don't care who the government was last year, I'm interested in this current one, and what we're going to do together, or just us. I think it would be correct for us to perform like that, and even in those replicas that are full of... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9988	Next debate, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9989	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorney, fellow MPs. This debate was a follow-up yesterday, today it started with some quieter tones, and probably because we had two representatives of clubs that were not generally declared so-called. Incendiary topics that dominated the parliamentary debate yesterday. At the beginning of your presentation yesterday you said to look more at these 200 pages of integral text than on the 30 pages of the summary. As it began in 2016, it seems to me that you will have a summary and that only a summary of the summary will have 30 pages. It's kind of my impression based on what's happening in society in 2016. My colleague Ilic mentioned the need and this is the old idea of the Croatian party of pensioners, so that, apart from the existing defenders, an establishment and counsel for the elderly. And I think that this debate should be driven away from ideological issues, and we should establish a special defender for World War II, so that we can finally start to deal with what's more important at this point than the Second World War relationship. I'd like to say a few things about the report itself. I'm gonna start reading as much time as I can, I'm gonna take one minute, I'm not just going to do the subject of this report anymore. So the judiciary, rights of national minorities, discrimination against the fundamental race of ethnicity or color of the skin and national origin, restoration and housing, status rights of citizens, the conduct of police officers, labour and service relations, discrimination in the field of labour and employment, pensioners and older persons, discrimination on the grounds of age, social care, energy poverty, municipal and other public services, enforcement, defenders, civil victims of war, health, discrimination in the field of health, education, discrimination in the field and the basis of education, discrimination on the basis of religion, expression in public space, property legal relations, environmental protection and health science, then the rights of persons deprived of freedoms and the action of the National Prevention Mechanism, general initiatives such as the refugee crisis, the situation following a catastrophic flood in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and human rights in rural areas. A minute and a half. So just to read the topics dealing with this report requires one-sixth of the total time that MPs have the right to debate and it shows how extensive this report is in fact but also how much such discussions on such a report are superficial. I am not even sure that the committees responsible have sufficiently discussed and made aware of the problems raised by the Ombudsman in their report, but what I must do, as a rule, criticise but I still have to commend the government that on page 36 it has responded to a lot of remarks made by the Ombudsman, and I believe that this is a good start for some of these recommendations to be implemented in the next period. Still, I'm going to have to go back to the topics that were slightly raised yesterday, but I'm going to try to do it in a way that I don't contribute. So one is the rights of national minorities. I think that, in this case, we should stop talking about the rights of national minorities and talk about the rights of Croats that in a state defined by the Constitution as the national state of the Croatian people are respected by the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament. So national minorities in the Republic of Croatia have not prescribed themselves any rights. All rights that national minorities in the Republic of Croatia have are prescribed by the Croatian Parliament, in which most of them are members of the majority people and the current Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities was passed in 2002 with the votes of almost all MPs. I think that against the law there were five representatives of the Croatian right then and of the HKDU, it seems to me, if I have made a mistake, someone will correct me. So what it is in 2002, which in 2002 was the time of 15 years or 13 years afterwards, we say is not the time. Or we were just kidding because what we needed was to make it easier for the EU to join, which was then a national goal. On page 26, the Ombudsman's reports are about the implementation of the Serbian language and Cyrillic script in Croatia, and I think she used a mild term but that it hit the point. Although the public was focused on the problem of the equal use of the language and letter of the national minority, the Serb national minority in Vukovar, I do not think that should be a priority at this time. So we have 20 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia in which the legal conditions for the equal use of the language and letters of the Serbian national minority have been met, and I do not think that any of these provisions of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters have been applied as prescribed by the law. Maybe the law was too ambitious, maybe it was written for some other parts of the Republic of Croatia, where there are obviously more sensitivity to this problem, but let's see how this law changes and implements in a way that will not make recommendations in society. Therefore, the fact that 20 municipalities and towns in the Republic of Croatia have met the conditions for the full equal use of Cyrillic and Serbian and the fact that on all roads in the Republic of Croatia there is only bilingual, the inscription of entry into the populated place shows that there is obviously a problem not only at the local but also at the state level about consciousness and the need for such law to be implemented. So in the next period, the priority should actually be on Croatian, County and County roads to increase awareness that a law that has been in force in the Republic of Croatia for 15 years is to then start and implement. So if the Cyrillic problem in Vukovar is why the problem is in Krnjak, you listed Plaški, why is the problem in other units of local self-government where there is no argument as used for the town of Vukovar. So, is the Cyrillic problem in Vukovar or Cyrillic in Croatia? Make it easier for us to know what we're talking about. As far as the other topics mentioned in the report are concerned, it is important that the executive authority of the Advocate General, all four special advisers of the Police Attorney, sees as a partner and as a help in the implementation of the law, in the exercise of citizens' rights based on what the state itself has prescribed for them as a kind of permanent monitoring in respect of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, and I think Madam Attorney General that you have done well this year. I have made certain remarks on the details, on certain recommendations and views that you have made in your reports, which I have generally made and made known but those remarks were not even the hundredth of the praises that I did not give on your report. I haven't been in a position in years, and I'm not going to be able to say too much right now that I'm going to support this report, and I hope the next one gets better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9990	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9991	Thank you very much. Mr. Bauk, you asked yourself what kind of report 2016 is going to be? Well, here's a good thing that's the D.A.'s office to her, it would be good that in the past time you've been a minister and even before the government, he's been a lawyer in hiring those who don't have a youth card, especially young people who couldn't get a job and get caught without a party card. That might be good if we had a lawyer for that group of citizens. When you talk about World War II, the most implication is on your part, though my colleagues on my left accept it very gladly but it is your political ring, of course you condemn NDH, they totalitarian regime, communist and, of course, should condemn both regimes and cut those divisions both communist and totalitarian regimes and as NDH. You mention national minorities, national minorities have been dealing with only Cyrillic in Vukovar, Cyrillic is one of the letters, but national minorities, because I live with them in the village together in the same problems. And the biggest problem, like most people, they don't have jobs, they don't have where kids work, they move out of these areas, it's the biggest problem. For four years, however, you lost only talking and talking about the Cyrillic in Vukovar and sharing and the tormented people in Vukovar who had enough of them, and it was very important to you that it was obvious for the elections. I would cut this short and say that in society, the situation is not good. That's what you said, on all issues, mainly about discrimination and especially about those who don't have a party card, young people who have to go to other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9992	Replication response, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9993	As far as this finding of four years of Cyrillic is concerned, it's practically not true. So, bilingual panels set up in 9 months 2013 and our mandate ended in the first month of 2016, so it's only the second half of our mandate. However, some things have been fixed. Therefore, as regards representation by bodies in local self-government representative bodies, as regards some other issues of national minorities, the Republic of Croatia also received commendation from the European Commission, from the Council of Europe and other institutions dealing with monitoring the rights of national minorities and it would be good to remain at least at that level for the next period. And as for World War II, it seems to me that I know the history that only after World War II a totalitarian regime was established. So, dealing with the totalitarian regime, the Yugoslav, the communist totalitarian regime is not dealing with World War II, it's dealing with what happened after World War II, which one part has consequences and because of events in World War II. Therefore, I would like those two concepts to be separated and that the anti-fascist struggle is not equated or mixed with the establishment of no democratic regime that came later. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9994	Replica, the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9995	Your Honor, Vice President. Croatians and Croats and others of course. Mr. Bauk, where you're smart, where you're a little bit hot, where you're even a little good and well-intentioned with the Croatian people, so that would be a result for me not knowing what century, perhaps for the universe. But I will address the Cyrillic that you brought to Vukovar for all of your known reasons, and that is the division of the people who live there, and the introduction of unrest and tensions that were not necessary at all, and they weren't in that proportion until you and your actions got there. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia has decreed that under cover of night, hidden, from the eyes of the public, while the whole normal world sleeps in a way that only immoral and thieves act on the lineup, bilingual writing boards at the front of buildings. All of this was done with the strong insurance of the intervention police whose officials and employees were used to implement their shameful and anti-zaconital decision. No one in this city needed plates, not especially those who reminded them of a letter that drove them out of their homes, but brought pain to their families. At the protests we organised in Vukovar and Zagreb, we strongly opposed this illegal decision, and completely gave us more than 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We have announced the removal of the plates that bother us and which have neither a legal nor a moral foothold to set up, because the 2011 census was irregularly implemented. Nor is it in nature that the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we have not allowed them to be set up, we have physically opposed it when the institutions of the rule of law have not protected us or respected our demands for compliance with existing laws. Government of the Republic of Croatia, President of the Republic of Croatia Ministers of Administration, MUP of the Republic of Croatia, Constitutional Court, Most Parliamentary Representatives, etc. They worked against the interest of the Croatian people. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9996	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9997	Smart, you said smart, hot, and I'm good where I'd end up. Each project I started won a world award which gave the Republic of Croatia an additional one. Here's what Maras told me I wasn't modest, but I think so. So, two projects have really won world awards and the Republic of Croatia has at least gained some better status in the world because of it, even if symbolically. Now, here's what you said. I see you've read and I know that text and that formulation. I'll say it like this. On page 26 of this report, the Ombudsman mentioned the Cyrillic in Vukovar, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not pass, but this government did not refer to it in a single word. So she did not deny the lawyer in this, and thus admitted what was indirect that the decision was, or that what we were doing then was law enforcement. This was confirmed by the Constitutional Court in its decision of August 2014. But you know what? For three, almost four months now, this people's government has been in power, and bilingual panels are still there. Well, if it's illegal that the government didn't take them off. Well, as they didn't, one of them was at the police station until the other day, so they took it off violently and illegally, so I guess the police are going to have it re-arrested. But she was there the whole time. So, I guess the first day would get away with it with the cameras. And he said but don't you dare know it, someone's watching it from the outside, so we don't have any bigger problems because of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9998	Next is the debated representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u9999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and the esteemed Attorney General. So here's what I'm gonna say about this report in 2015. I'll start with a quote from your report at the beginning. During 2015, the Ombudsman handled 13% more cases than in 2014 and even 80% more than in 2012. While the review and analysis of the situation in this report as well as the information available on the extent to which the competent authorities have acted under the recommendations of the Advocate General shall indicate that, at all levels of government and governance, more efforts must be made to prevent human rights violations and freedoms and discrimination. I was here at the last debate talking about three things, talking about freedom of movement and mentioning the island card, the subscription of HRT to the tenants. I've given you an object in your hands to react to such an object and to a double practice that appears in trials and hate speech, i.e. division in a society that the former prime minister caused with a famous saying by us or them. But the D.A. didn't respond to any of my remarks because I looked at the report and all 160 recommendations. There's not one that would go towards HRT or the Ministry at least this part of what I was saying. So I can conclude that whatever you're telling me here is more like it's just past time or maybe it's not even useful. Of the 160 recommendations, none of them found a place to solve what I thought was a large number of citizens, although you might think not. As I read this report, I get the impression that the D.A. actually listened only to comments from the SDP, and that's why they are very clearly in favour of this. When you increase the number of cases in a term of four years by 80%, then it is clear how the government ruled this country with the great rights they said they had given to Croatian citizens. Obviously, there was an even greater part of those who violated, and then, of course, the report justified or wrote why they did so. Because I still think to put in the same sentence of SDP and human rights is simply not possible. It's like you let the wolf watch over the sheep. Not that they didn't care about human rights, but they brought them down to an unrecognizable level. They didn't take care of the citizens, because all the time their party was above the citizens, and that's why you have so many cases to deal with, and they grew up I say all four years. They stuck to those old ones. They shouldn't stick to the law like a drunk float. And when that's the case, and when you have that old saying, it's clear to me that my transition to the other one is clear that all the problems have gone right into the Attorney General's office. Because citizens have to tell someone what's bothering them and who has rights are breaking, and they're mostly being violated by the government. What the current opposition and government in 2015 means from this report is speaking today and then speaking. We stand on the defender of the rights of citizens and national minorities. It's like a mantra, and then it says in the attorney general's report next. I quote how this bumper was described. "In 2015, the Republic of Croatia continued to develop an atmosphere to question the role of national minorities in society and the justification for the existence of private rights guaranteed to them, which was mainly directed against members of the Serb national minority. There have been increased cases of hate speech, physical violence and damage to the mention of the mark. Police did not respond in a timely manner, police led by Mr. Ranko Ostojic. The reason for such an atmosphere, the report said, is parliamentary and presidential elections. Here's why something happened in society. My conclusion was, apparently, that the government of the SDP took advantage of the problems of the citizens itself that it produced specifically for national minorities to deepen divisions in society and thus, with a famous saying to me or to those I repeat, try to stay in power. What is the result of such a policy? The SDP has lost the election, and divisions in society never increase. Today, the SDP supported only part of minority representatives continue with the same policy further. What was the attorney general doing about it? She did not react during 2015 to events that occurred in the public political space in particular and never condemned the hate speech especially by the former prime minister who went to HDZ with the lowest expressions, the expressions of low emotions that I can say, he called us in all sorts of ways, from half-world, darkness, darkness, parasites not to count on. Never condemning such behaviour, just an item, it's for parliamentary elections, and it's probably for that reason. For such a policy I say the premises of a Croatian National Theatre were also used, unfortunately, which I say until the people of the theatre happened, simply served as a certain level of political provocation. When the Ombudsman’s people happened, the report condemns the result but not the cause and motive of it. As those basic problems outside of the politics of Croatian citizens dealt with, the report shows. Rehabilitation and housing, despite our opposition when laws were amended that established the new Office for Disposal, which amended the Law on Regional Development, the PPDS, etc., the result has never been worse so far. So we didn't take care of the displaced, we didn't solve the problems. It says on one page 80 settlements in 6 counties in the 21st century still without electricity, on the other side you have a hep gain that crosses over 2 billion kunas. Shame! Police actions, no word was mentioned in the report, perhaps the darkest episode the police could have made in 2015, the police's attitude towards the imprisoned defences of the disabled in the church of St. Mark 29.05.2015. Not in a single word, not in a single sentence. If that was respect for human rights, then the question is, what is our attorney general's service to us? Not in a single sentence, look! Next chapter, energy poverty. It's something new that appears after the SDP authorities. Let's remember the first three months of 2012 electricity collection 25%, gas 20%, heating 40% to 60% depending on the cities you live in. Who to thank for energy poverty? Thank the SDP for the energy poverty. The executions, 100,000 more completed, a debt of 17.68 billion in 2012, according to the report, at 36.5 billion. Thank the SDP and for that. They were indeed a government that worked for the benefit of Croatian citizens. Expressing in public space, we have witnessed difficult sayings here especially in this House of ours. Mr. Stazic celebrates and justifies Goli Otok, crimes of communism and mocks the victims of the cadamat. Was she convicted of the attorney general's sentence? No, never because they're allowed to. The swastika on Pomljevje in politics directed by us or they, never resolved, remained a cause for further division in Croatian society. Is that incompetence or intention of inaction? I don't know, that's the question. I just want to ask myself a question, and what would happen if God never gave up that instead of a swastika on that part of the field on Pomljeno was either a dead body of a man, a child? Would the 30 cameras that film that field be able to identify that stadium? That's what's going to stay in the air, I guess, what happened, how it happened because that SDP policy was right. And what does the report say? Graffiti, call, incidents only on one side of the obviously Croatian citizens. On the other hand, especially members of the national minority, one national minority, has nothing to do with songs or calls or graphics or anything. I don't think that's the role of the vehicular attorney. Office expenses 2 million more than in 2011. So we spend more, we have a lot more objects, human rights are being violated even more and we have a message that the SDP clearly during that four-year period was the strongest, best preserved human rights. I'm going back again and I'm saying that this report is highly ideologically colored and cannot, as such, get a pass in this House at least on my part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10000	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10001	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, you in your debate have shown one fundamental misunderstanding of things and that the amount of the case does not automatically mean that some things have deteriorated, but that people may be more aware that they can turn around and that the attorney general is doing his job and that her office has a purpose. The fact that there are more subjects does not automatically mean that the situation is worse than that people are more aware that they can get on one side of protection and maybe bring the whole society to some of the problems that they themselves are witnessing. What you are obviously not concerned about and what you insist on is that we do not have to talk about the deterioration of the situation in the last few months, such as the European Commissioner who is concerned about the state and position of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. So Europe resents certain trends that are happening to us and you are going back to SDP, statements and certain things that have been happening over the past few years. And in some ways, colleague Culey justifies such a situation. So if the European Commission is saying that it is concerned about the state of our national minorities, is this, in your opinion, also some conspiracy of the SDP and the European Commission against honest HDZ and large human rights fighters and equality and everything that goes with it? So turn around a little bit, let go of the SDP and what whoever said and in what way whoever did their job, the lawyer is here to protect all citizens and your assignments as representatives and your party should be to raise Croatia's ratings. Unfortunately, you're doing exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10002	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10003	Thank you very much, colleague Maras, for one beautiful replica. I was very nice in my debate almost like a Finn. And I think I counted everything inside, I didn't make anything up. If you need to be quoted as defending those rights, I'll give you one more time. So that's yours that I said mantra, we defend the human rights of Croatian citizens and national minorities, and then one part of the report says that they are just being defended specifically by national minorities. I don't know if I need to read again. During 2015, the Republic of Croatia continued to develop an atmosphere to question the role of national minorities in society and the justification for the existence of private rights guaranteed to them and was mainly directed against members of the Serbian national minority. There have been increased cases of hate speech, physical violence and damage to the mention of the mark. You led the state back then of the Republic of Croatia and what the attorney general wrote came true. And then I went through that policy, too, because the attorney general concluded that it was because of parliamentary and presidential elections. I don't think that can be the reason and that it's quite unserious to write that that's the reason. The reason is one policy designed with that famous sentence in the 12th month 2014 when Zoran Milanovic comes out in the first round of presidential elections and says "It's either us or them". And it's continued until today, and it's gonna be hard to calm down if there's no good will on both sides. That's why you're working on it and don't lecture us on who and how it protects the rights of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10004	Replica's respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10005	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Boric, you've shown a large dose of amnesia but which is probably characteristic of this side of the assembly you're coming from, which is if you've been following a little debate before, and I know that it is, or that it is, the public defender's reports, they're certainly critical of the previous government, and they should be. Every constructive criticism is welcome. But to start from the end of your debate, you say energy poverty comes after SDP, I'd say general poverty comes after the HDZ government, after FIMI media, watches, private flights to Verona, etc. etc. But you probably forgot that. You're saying we're discussing here a report by the attorney general that the time has passed, so I'd agree that we're arguing that the time has passed because no other law from your government, law and reform law, has only seen some changes and additions technically or anything like that. So from reform and R. I don't want to be completely negative, human rights in Croatia are envious, of course they should continue to develop and when you see the recommendations we received in the process..., the monitoring of the Council of Europe etc. they are numerous, but I am pleased to conclude that most of the recommendations are either already in the implementation phase or implementation has been completed or are moving along with implementation. When we talk about the institution of the attorney general, we expect our citizens to know what her role is, but I don't think you know her first either. And then it's not political, it's chosen by the Croatian Parliament but not political. So that's what I can say, and why didn't the D.A. react to the gas bottles in Sava? But it's not her job. And finally, you persistently relativize human rights institutions and their work. You keep doing it, and I'll just tell you, but the passport won't go away.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10006	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10007	Thank you very much. My colleague Hajduković, I am not suffering from amnesia, I am very well remembered and I am preparing for my discussions and I am pulling out the data and by 2012 if we should be able to talk about everyone. I always debate because this is a demanding report to be discussed, covering a wide range of certain social events so that we can... We've heard that the number, the increased number of cases is not bad authority but transparency and better work. Here we can accept. The SDP mostly when a problem says satire, when the number of objects increases, then we are successful etc. It's the famous one I kept saying, "You lied to us during the day, you lied to us at night just to stay in power," and said it long ago, a Hungarian prime minister. You failed, and now you're where you are in the opposition. As far as work and law are concerned, I have been saying this since the first day, I am not in favour of changing about 500 Croatian laws in this term to determine that the Croatian Parliament is doing something. We make thorough preparations, do what we have to do to make a thorough reform and bring a lot of, much less laws to do something right. This number of laws did not prove that you were a good and successful government no matter what the Parliament did, and the Parliament received the worst rating ever from the formation itself, no matter how much you imagined yourself to not know any successful power. This concerns the evaluation of the European Commission, the last one to evaluate your work in 6 areas, five units and one passing if I don't remember, or I remember well. This latest report is much more favourable and it's in the right direction. So whoever's trying to roll it around here let the citizens evaluate it and it's up to us to speak with an argument like I did and describe what's written in the report from your point of view like I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10008	Thank you. Replicated representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10009	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Boric. Now, let me continue in your style in this reply to the replica, and I say, don't pass a bunch of laws because you don't have to, so we've passed the laws, you can only work on them and everything will be fine. You have economic growth, keep it up, and you'll be fine. Your debate, of course, can be discussed as a politician in the way you want, but I will warn you why your debate is dangerous. We've got an attorney general sitting in front of us with his report. The report was made on the basis of its legal powers. So she was doing her job. She could be responsible for that job she was doing. You can't accuse her of not doing what she didn't do. So once again, let's point out she's not a politician. I hope you understand that. When you talk about bias, you say that she's been working on SDP's orders, I don't even know the lady, I've read her report, I've seen how extensive it is, what a large number of objects she's given, and how much recommendations she's made. So her job is to make recommendations to make the system better. This is a report for 2015 but it gives us guidelines for 2016. It is not your claim that this report pleases someone. I can't figure out how someone can benefit from this report. You can next year, suppose so we accuse the attorney general of not protecting the Deputy Prime Minister's wife because she's been discriminated against and threatened by her right to deal with whoever she wants, you can think of it that way. Look, these are dangerous political matters. Let the D.A. do his job, evaluate her work, and not what she was supposed to do in your opinion, and it's not her job at all, nor does she have a legal basis for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10010	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10011	Comrade Sagar, you say a bunch of laws, you don't have to work on ours. Look at what you've referred to in the law procedure, these are the laws that passed the public debate while you were still government, you took them nicely on that contact, brought them here to the club, printed them out and put them in the procedure. Why? Because you didn't have the courage to bring it in while you were in power if I read it very well about the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, some Civil Victims Act, etc. These are laws that are difficult, financially difficult, that cause certain reactions and you have not brought them as power, and now you're going to leave them here. Everyone says the SDP is very effective in the opposition and we support it and let it stay that way because you're the best there is. As for the dangerous debate, she wasn't in anything dangerous, she's kind of honest with me, I read the report, I know what it says inside. And if you think that the report should not write what I said it didn't say, and that's that embarrassing event where the police arranged in St. John's Square. Mark and the church towards the disabled, according to Croatian defenders, and that was respect for human rights. You're right. I think it should have found a place in this report because it was, I said 29.5.2015. But it wasn't found. And now somebody convince me why it didn't work out. Because it's not like it's an attorney general's job. Well, so no one from those who had their job or had their job there or were in church didn't talk to the attorney general, so she didn't want to write it. I think he has to react because he shows some other event that the attorney general reacts to them if he thinks it's justified and without putting up with a certain level of representation. Here, I think that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10012	Thank you. Dear Representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10013	Mr. Boric, on a show recently, since I'm addicted to political shows, I'm looking at it sadomahochistically, I've heard Mr. Bauk praise you for being a very talented lawyer. I was wondering where he got that, now I get it. You're talented for half-truths and manipulations, plantings, that's obvious. Why? You are talking about this, the report mentions discriminatory speech and binds itself to parliamentary elections and the president's election. So it didn't begin in society when Mrs. Antičević here was ironic to make a little joke about the death of fascism, the freedom of the people that you immediately turned into a new mantra, and for home ready to do so hastily, I won't say it for centuries but it's been going on for decades and you're pretending to be deaf. You don't mind the fact that there's no such thing as an example you're referring to the church. It also bothers me that there is no such thing as a permanent cocktail of church with a constitution, part of a church with a constitution, part of a priest, bishop, auxiliary bishop, etc., etc. You don't pay any attention to that because it's, of course, self-evident, so your logistics is Roman Catholic and we could list it as much as you want. Instead of actually agreeing that the attorney general pointed out phenomena simply to help her, not her, but her institution to be truly independent, to really be independent, to really act and they are and to actually be aware of what someone warns about all the possible problems we have in this society. But it bothers you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10014	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10015	Thank you very much, colleague Pecnik. Said one left intellectual for the Labourists, it's a first-ball party of acid orientation. I think he described it very well and exactly as a matter of fact. What you just said has nothing to do with what I said. I'm, if half the information is that the number of cases has increased, that's one way we shouldn't say it, if half the information is that no mention of any activities that have happened and that I personally consider to have been purely human rights baptisms, if half the information is almost my whole debate, yours would be severe demagogy, politics and neucus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10016	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10017	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Josipa Boric, is in front of me and in front of you with a Guide for Representatives, for new representatives in Parliament in 2015. In this you need to print your complete discussion and put on top the title “A debate that is below each level and should never appear in the Assembly as such” because your debate was just like that. You as a member of the HDZ, I don't know at all what time you live with such a debate and how you look at the world around you. You honor the SDP's defense of human rights. You as a member of the HDZ and a party member who supports the destruction of Cyrillic plates guaranteed by law and by the Constitution. Those of you who have ministers in the government who look with sympathy at the Ustasha regime, fascist regime, and with the sowing and grief talk about the defeat of Croatia and Croatia 45th. You who had a minister who threatened a bus driver with a gun and later remembered to take it off. You, a party that abolishs disabled children with Dow new syndrome, a party that abolishs the transport of children to school, a party that spent privatisation, a party that financed a good part of the time from black funds, a party that came out of which the author who invented a famous password in Croatia, "Who has jamped, Jamio". You're talking about civil liberties. After all, one of the biggest sons of the defense of your party's civil freedoms, Mr Ivo Sanader, your civil liberties and your way of work defends by Remetinco and all Croatian courts and still failed to do so. Comrade Joseph Boric, wake up, turn on the TV, 2016 is, watch the calendar or I don't know what, whatever, however, you are today Joseph Boris in Wonderland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10018	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10019	I now understand why Zoran Milanovic, a famous Liberarian, means freeddar, disbanded the city organisation of SDP Split not the one leading it, but the set. Because as the SDP put it, it respected human rights, the right to choice, democracy and everything political life can provide. Do we agree on that? He did not exclude only one but 1100 when he was solving Mr. Bandic then he said we will not rule out only Bandic but one few thousand of them in Zagreb, disband them all, because they are Liberarians, no, our freedomists. So, you agree that you're saying what you're not representing and this guide for the new MPs, that's for you, I've been here before. So you can feel free to put yourself in front of him because when I listened to some debate from fellow Stazic, I don't know why you don't give it to him. You may like something, you may be bad or worse, but I don't know more than anything you've told me, what a man can answer than this. I think that's enough. SDP, human rights, that's what I've already said, as if you've given the wolf to guard the sheep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10020	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10021	Dear fellow Boric, here in your individual debate you have raised a question for us a very painful question, and this is a program of recovery and reconstruction of the low voltage network, so-called. See about the program. I said yesterday that the program left still unfinished around 80 settlements without electricity. Why am I saying that? Because this whole job is a classic political ping-pong, all governments have said so far, it's a hep obligation and when we go to HEP, it's the government's obligation to give us money, that we end it, and that's how it's been going for about 15 years, and we've had a commitment to the EU, some international contracts, if not for those people, so when we're entering the EU, one of the elements of the closure of the chapter was the conclusion of the SEE programme, and it's wrong to say that by 2008, the government of Ivo Sanader had a good try and one part of the work was done. Absolutely no other has ever done it and I am not amnesting anyone. And now what I want to ask you is, what is a tragedy, which is also this government and Prime Minister Oreskovic who should be sensitized for such a kind of thing did not put into the budget so that we could end this, so we will now be in the county road between Kistanje and Benkovec and continue to have villages like Pacici, Vuksa, Vojvodici and Ivanisevic without electricity this year. So, if I accept things from some of the past times, that neither this government has included any lip in its budget for the completion of this SEE project.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10022	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10023	My colleague Horvat you and I know well what we were saying here when the State Department was established to take care of the exiles and we all knew it wasn't good. It has to do, not electrification only, but also what else it says about the number of unsettled and exiled ones that the state took over because we said that it was the only thing that could work within the Ministry of Regional Development because there were professional people, there was everything and it had to go on like that. You wanted something different, you have what you have, and it's written down by the attorney general's office as much as it wasn't done. What's done is very little. As far as electricity is concerned, I said it was a shame, 2 billion hep gains suggest that the government should not leave a single kuna to solve the problem. Now what do we got? We have a strange behavior and you as members of the national minority here in the Parliament. You recently, if I watched well last Friday, Mr. Stazic persuaded you to go outside. You don't even know why you left. Not support the quorum, let alone vote or talk to the government about any problems. And it's obvious to you that the SDP and the party are more important to you than the rights of national minorities. So get a little bit together and try to be on the trail you've been on so far, work for them and take care of their problems. Not to listen to Stazic and when he says get out. I mean, if he's so important, then he'll probably figure it out when he gets here, and I don't think he'll do it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10024	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, first of all, I want to thank you for making me aware that the SDP has its own branch in Latvia where that Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights comes from. I've been in the game a long time, and I didn't know that. That's this one, I thanked you for coming to know that the SDP has a branch in Latvia. In fact, there comes this Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe who has criticised us a little because this is the SDP conspiracy. Secondly, you said you wouldn't vote for the report because it was ideologically colored. Did I give you a good interpretation? On the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, on the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and on the Committee on Justice, members of the HDZ voted in favour of the report. So you're here ideologically on the second trail of HDZ. I'm surprised. I believed that you were still on the trail of your party's policy, and neither was the government in which most of the members were from your party nor suggested a rejection of the report. However, for a report by the former occupier, Mr Malcic, when he came to the Assembly, when HDZ had a majority in that previous assembly of parliaments was never accepted. The government has always noted him because she was obviously unable to deal with what the attorney general said. And as far as your entire discussion is concerned, it shows that you've really studied matter, that you've tried. However, that effort was too much because you were tired to draw conclusions from what you read, so tiredness prevented you from making the right conclusions. So, so much work to make wrong conclusions is really a shame. I recommend you to be more focused in the future when you draw conclusions from what you saw, because in no statement by the attorney general has called on the government to violate human rights, then the SDP has only found that in the country it is happening, that the government opposes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10026	Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10027	Comrade Bauk, when you talk about branches, you need to be very careful. I caught a title from the Free Dalmatia on the branch as Mr Baldasar, Jurjevic, Baja and Radojkovic said if you had turned them into a Ustasha branch, which would have been wrong. Because these are people who say they're on the bumper themselves, because social democracy has been since the 1990s. And you've obviously told them with these moves, and you've led them under respect for human rights, democracies and democratic procedures. ... Oh, yeah, here's what your colleagues say they don't even know about you guys being in the SDP because you're disbanded, so you're gonna have to get involved again. [[You can't hear it.]] Okay. And your colleague will include you because that's how it is. As for ideologically colored, that's my personal opinion, you don't have to like it. As for acceptance in the Assembly, there were many of these reports that were received just as it is said. Mostly governments are always unhappy with reports that are some kind of picture of their let's say work regardless of what you claim the government has no role and that the government does not violate the law. Well, they might agree in some parts, but the government creates frameworks within which citizens behave, and then there is a violation of certain human rights. I mean I say more or less we said everything in this debate and I wouldn't go any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10028	Thank you. Next in the debate, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am using this introduction of my presentation to suggest that perhaps as vice-president of the Assembly at the next session of the Assembly Presidency you suggest that here on these displays always at the top writes the item of the agenda that we are discussing. Because when citizens listen to what we're talking about, it seems to me they don't have a slight connection that, if I thank you, which is the point of the agenda because this now looks like a pre-election campaign, and it kind of smells like some kind of panic to me because of early elections. And I don't think the report by the attorney general for 2015 that we're discussing really deserves what we hear in the debates. As regards the report on behalf of the Labourist, Mr Pecnik said in his debate, and I will try to update only one point of this report, item 3 23 of which is unfortunately written in this comprehensive report on one incomplete page of A4, but concerning the torture of nearly 9000 Croatian citizens. It is about citizens who have the status of protected tenants, and this status was based on the Law on renting apartments that was passed not three years ago, not four, not two years ago, but exactly 20 years ago in '96. when their previous status as homeowners has been abolished by that law. And I think it was '96. the year at least as regards the category of these Croatian citizens began to deny their human rights. The problem with the ownership of natural persons in which protected tenants live is very complex, and we will all agree on that. And in order for justice to truly be satisfied with everyone, we must make it possible to consume his rights. There is still an additional big question here, which is that 3734 private apartments, according to some estimates of the Ministry of Construction, in which some 9000 protected tenants live, want to return to the owners, but we have not solved the status of these same tenants. What are these people and how guilty and on behalf of whom and whose decisions must they make today or five years from now, as proposed by the new amendments to the Law on renting apartments that are just in the public debate to become homeless? I object that there are only two measures in the counsel's recommendations on this matter, which is the measure of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning to prepare a draft draft law on renting apartments and refer it to the legislative procedure after the debate with the interested public has been conducted, which is what the Ministry of Civil Engineering has respected, not thanks to the Ombudsman's recommendations as much as the European Court of Human Rights has ruled. Another recommendation is to the Judicial Academy to organise the education of civil court judges on the application of the test of proportionality. I am extremely sorry that these recommendations did not also say that the government must respect the 1096 Resolution adopted by the Republic of Croatia in 2004, which stipulates that the seized property is not returned to former owners but should be compensated by the state in the form of compensation. I am sorry that the recommendations do not stand in the same way that the Republic of Croatia also adopted Resolution 1708, which has been declared property law and which should also be respected. I am sorry that the recommendations also do not say that the UN Assembly on 30.12.2010, in which an appeal was received to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to correct the injustice committed by seizing the rights of protected tenants to the purchase of the apartment and to allow them to buy the apartment under the same conditions as all other holders of household rights transferred from the former state. So, what these protected tenants are preparing for these amendments to the law will be something that we will all be responsible for together and in the report not for 2016, but therefore a new proposal of the Law on Renting Apartments gives some kind of 5 years, we will be discussing it much deeper and much more studioly because we will have a new category of citizens, and as I mentioned, there are about 9000 of them in Croatia that will be left without apartments. Let us not forget and interfere with the mind, especially those who work and fight to protect the rights of participants in the Homeland War, that in these 9,000 protected tenants we have more than 10% of the Croatian defenders' assessment. So they're users of these same apartments. Let us not interfere with the mind that more than 10% of these protected tenants make up a group of Croatian citizens who are socially the most socially endangered. It's the protection of human rights. Indeed, listening to our debates in the Assembly when we talk about how much human rights have gone backwards or how much we have gone back to protecting human rights in 4 years is very important, and wise in the end, that certain problems concerning the protection of human rights or the protection of the rights of every citizen in the Republic are seen from the moment that this problem has arisen. The problem of protected tenants arises and lasts for a full 20 years. Thanks to one European Court of Human Rights ruling, we are making a new draft law to be applied on 1 January of next year. I am really taking this opportunity and exposing my colleagues to Boris before me to think seriously about who after 1.01. will be responsible for all these citizens protected when they are left without their apartments and when we do not provide them with quality and responsibility and allow them to consume their constitutional right, their civil rights, their human rights and that is the right to a home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10030	Replica, the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10031	Dear Vice President, Croats and Croats. I'll answer in a unique way. How to claim something else won in some former battles means to come to someone's property, get into their apartment, tell them this is my half apartment, this is my house, this is my salash, this is my tractor, this is my field, this is my entire village, this is my landscape. It's all mine until I say no, until I win with my rifle. We also have an example personally of the lawyer and the question, how is it possible in Croatia that the person who killed 12 Croatian directors has a monument and is glorified as a folk hero? In a country where he killed 12 officers on a legal mission to release two colleagues. This same man who killed 5 police officers, who said he was going to kill another 505 has a monument of mausoleum in Borovo Sel 6 meters high on which a Cyrillic letter was not banned, is allowed to say "Here rests the Vukasin Vulesha Šokošcanin tragically died in the waves of Vienna, 32 years of life. 91st year commander, defense of Bor's village. As a folk hero, declared to be the great people's Serbian Assembly in Bela Manastir on 25 September." She's a little Cyrillic, so she's hurting me. "It says and now I see Boro's born my village, brothers and sisters of Serbs, Serbian fighters, my battles beat, fiercely, proudly raise their heads and Serbian flags and high and hard on the Serbian country stands." Whose flags, who stands proudly, on whose land? Is there any element of criminal nature here to remove such a shameful monument or at least what it says? Are there any elements of criminal nature here? How many more such monuments are there in Croatia? Is there a monument somewhere in this Croatia for someone from the last war who burned, slaughtered, killed? There isn't. Why does a dead man like this have to do it? This is a cry for sacrifice, cry for those who suffer injustice, from whom? From the judiciary, from the organs that persecute us in our country instead of persecuting the ones we need. That's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10032	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10033	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, dear Croats and Croats, Istranka and Istrana, Primorka and Primorci, Dalmatians and Dalmatians, Licani and Licanca, Goranka and Gorani, Zagorka and Zagorci, Međimurka and Međimurci, Podravka and Podravci, Prigorci and Prigorci, Posavaci and Posavka, Moslavci and Moslavka, Slavonci and Slavonka, Baranjka and Baranci, Sremec and Sremka, Kordunci, Italians, Russia and all others forgive me for those I forgot to quote. When you say what is mine or what is ours, mine or yours is INA, yours is Podravka, yours is the Croatian Post office bank, yours is ACI, yours is Telekom, everything you think is yours and what you think you can sell out and negotiate in which way and whom you will sell in phone sessions even without respecting the law. And with such rhetoric and behaviors, you want to teach all those who want to and ask that all of us who are here are responsible for managing what we have. When we start to answer for what we sold, or when you start to answer for everything you've done since the '90s, what you took and what was yours that you thought was yours and you sold out to Croatian citizens, then I'll accept your rhetoric. And Vice-President of the Parliament, I really ask you to respond to such replicas that do not refer to the replicas of the one who spoke before and warn the one who speaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10034	Thank you. I will react but I must admit that it has been tied up so that everyone has the right to say here at least while I conduct the session and until it offends anyone who is in this House, outside the assembly, that is, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. And as far as I can see, colleague Culey has just warned of something that is inadmissible in the Croatian state that is happening in front of both the attorney general and all of us sitting here in the Parliament. So I don't think he broke anything. Furthermore, replicated representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague of Tyrelli's talking about household law. It's a very big problem. I don't agree with my colleague Culey until the end when he said it was just a result of the kidnapping. I've seen and participated unfortunately in dozens of families' actions with a case like this. It wasn't always the mirage of the one who moved into someone's home, but it was the mirage of the original owners who came in and made them go out again. The state has been unable to resolve this problem for 20 years as heir to the former state and these rights. Why is that? According to the associations dealing with this law, it is a matter of high-ranking officials being that these political furniture which some in the past Republic of Croatia overruns simply these apartments and is not in their interest to solve the problem. And then what's going on? Croatian citizens argue, the owners argue with the owners, complain, stand trial for decades, act on the road, and this law, what Minister Lovro Kuščević now proposes, will end these 9,000 people, throw them on the road, which is of course not fair, the state has more than enough real estate to solve this problem permanently and take care of both owners and owners. But I say there's no will. That's why I suggest that a theme session be finally held after 20 years in a week. Is it in vain for them to have these judgments by the Court of Human Rights, I don't know the opinions of the commission, from the UN, from some Croatian courts if we don't have the political will to get rid of it here. Let's go solve the problems, take one to solve it, go on to solve the other. Do I have the impression here that we're not here to solve problems but to let problems pile up and time goes by? That's not why I came here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10036	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10037	I thank you, Vice President, and your colleague Sincic, on the replica, even though one large portion of the replica referred to the replica of his colleague Culei. I hope he understood and heard what you were saying. What you and I certainly agree on is that everything goes on too long as I mention and mention the agony of these people for 20 years, the solution and the answer for them has not been passed, and indeed from this government, since it makes a new bill and by the ruling majority I expect that when this bill is in the debate and it is announced by somewhere for the end of 6 months, so before the parliamentary break of summer that we will hear from the ruling structures in this House of Commons, we will indeed stop at the protection of these 9,000 Croatian citizens, that they will respect the laws that have been passed in this House regardless of who has brought them, that they will not retrograde anything to the harm of these same people and that they will find a model. And it is obvious that by their rhetoric and knowledge and ability, at this point, at least what we listen to is the most capable and wisest to solve such problems, a model to satisfy both owners and respect the right or property of those owners. But they also find a model of how to protect the tenants who rightly consume it also by the basis of some laws that someone once passed because none of them are in that apartment wrongly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10038	Thank you. Next in the debate is distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague and colleagues we've seen in this report the extent of human rights violations in the Republic of Croatia. If Madam Attorney remembers, I was on the Committee which is the parent committee for this report and I asked a few questions. And the issues were a reaction to institutions where citizens were most disappointed, institutions that did not respond to memos. And these are, above all, BUSKOK, DORH, courts, slowness, bias, corruption, objectivity and other criteria are what could be heard by citizens. And that's not surprising, and that's not surprising, I'm personally a member of the Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals. Many of the performances and complaints that we get, we can't do much more, not by the book, but by rerouting it. Also, the attorney general and her office can't do much, they can reroute again. Where's all this going? Again with the same ones we complained about, it goes back to the DORH, the BUSCO, the State's Attorney's Office, so. And eventually, eventually, he ends up in court. These institutions are the black hole of this Croatian society and what is most tragic, as the state's attorney's report shows, is what percentage of economic crime has not been processed. So here's one criminal report, one of many in economic crime that never received an answer or was called to a hearing, or someone was questioned, let alone some kind of indictment. Well, here's a criminal report... In 915 2012, these are specific from the INA, a crime has been reported in the retail and marketing sectors as well as the work of foreigners without an employment contract in the oil industry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second criminal application refers to the escalation of the illegality that produced the conduct... Workplace evaluation systems where 8500 contracts are distributed in INA without a licence, without job catalogues and without procedures to manage job descriptions in the oil industry, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's enough here, they're all sent to the competent institutions, they ended up in a black hole where everything comes in, goes in and out of which there's no action, they don't go out. This isn't a lonely case. I could have also listed a few manual numbers, applications for Brodosplit, for the Adriatic or for any other economic crime in this country. There are also a number of complaints about working conditions coming from here, but gentlemen and colleagues, we have structural crime that has not been resolved for decades as well as this household law. And instead of calling a thematic session, to sit down until we bring in the reform packages of the Croatian judiciary, the courts, the DORH, to launch the final system, we do not allow this state to go. We have certain judges who have been gods for 20 years are the presidents of the courts and who govern the fates of our citizens but in what is their jurisdiction under trial. In addition to these examples of corruption in our judiciary, which the citizens have complained about far the most, and will again complain because no real reforms are in sight. What should definitely be stated in human rights violations is something defined by the United Nations Convention and the Convention is about the ban on slavery, slave trade, institutes and practices of similar slavery. There, in Chapter I, Article 1 prohibits debt, i.e. debt slavery. So here's a story from Slavonia, one of many. "The other day our house was at another auction and, of course, it wasn't sold. The real estate procedure was then stopped and if the bank wants to continue selling the house, it must reopen the proceedings in court. We moved out of the house abroad, we have such peace, thank God. But since my wife's mother is on loan and the judge's brother, the bank will always hold theirs as well as my wife's account in the blockade. The mother is a pensioner with a very small pension of which they take a third and the brother is a tenant who in order to survive the mission and have what to eat has to do 2 jobs. He literally leaves home every day at 5:00 and returns at 11:00 p.m., and he's already two years old. Since the property in Slavonia is very low-sale for expected that the house will stand and fall because there is no one in it and everyone will be in the blockade for life because the amount that the bank takes monthly does not reduce the debt at all, namely, every year the tightening interest amounts to just a little more than what they manage to pay. An example is one of the thousands that buying can destroy not only one family but also more, of course everything in accordance with the law." Here's a particular problem, one story, one of many, and I hear some crying about yesterday's children leaving Croatia. My experience has been four and a half years with similar stories like these, but, well, we're not gonna be working next week, so I guess there's no working conditions again instead of sitting down for a whole week, solving a personal bankruptcy bill that came too late, bad, no rules not to add up. Let's settle the executive law and all the other laws to solve these problems, no, the one who's in charge of the agenda, decided that that's not so important right now, and I guess we have other things to do. Here, since I still have a little time, I would refer to the working conditions of one sector, which is the demining sector, the sector in which the pyrotechnicians have been operating, since the 88th demining sector no longer deals with demining. Since then, the priority is no longer to keep Croatia clean from mines. I remember when I was younger, to talk to you in 2010. Croatia without mines, today is said 2020. Croatia without mines. However, there will be no such thing as these last victims that died in minefields, died where it is reportedly clean. Here's how it's done today. So imagine that the area of this assembly is one minefield, and now all of this where the halls are and where you can walk, it's actually pure, dot or pass by machines, and if you don't find mines in that part, then all of this between these passages is declared demining, it's not demining. Since this sector came to the market and it is not the nature of the sector to come to the market. It's not production I don't know cars. There's a similar problem with public health. A certain part of human activity must never come to the market because it will then be viewed primarily for profit rather than for quality work to be done. So people leave with no equipment for very small salaries that are around minimumers plus daily allowances, they're not as good as they used to be. If we remember in those minefields with no equipment, with the outdated equipment under constant mobbing we have dozens and dozens of stories that have given me and then we have to do this. And later they say you wouldn't send your children where it's supposed to be demined. There was, the main premise in this business became to earn certain private companies involved instead of, say, returning the sector to the state again for a third of the price and doing the job in good time because this is how we have a demining sector that does not deal with demining because, according to this current standard, 10-15% is demining. Many complaints in terms of work received by the attorney general also concern this sector, I do not have time to speak now about security guards or cashiers but what is most tragic is that nothing will be done again. Here it's been a week, and it's already slowly forgotten, it's being released, people go back to the field there, if someone gets killed, well, we'll pay the damage, it's cheaper than doing the job right. Unfortunately, we are, in some way, involved in this business, in this tragedy that neither performs business nor cleans Croatia from mines or the money invested in it properly exploits it. There, so much for your report. It is not as much a problem in the attorney general's office as many institutions well conduct problems, the problem is in other institutions where the problems have been redirected because they are competent and they do not respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10040	Replica's esteemed representative, Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10041	Here's my esteemed colleague, Sincic. At the very beginning of your presentation, you said that most of the complaints later in the proceedings should be resolved by state institutions which are individually listed and one of the institutions mentioned by the judiciary. In the replica of counterpart Nancy, it was also pointed out that you are here to solve the problems of citizens, which is the right setting, and I would now return first of all to politics or specifically to us politicians and related to the state institution of the judiciary. The responsibility of the policy is to take the obligation and to bring each other into line today with non-compliant and non-implementable laws. We are able for hours, to spend time indefinitely, to nonsense, but with one of the fundamental problems that is plagued by Croatian society, which is the judiciary where the responsibility is to politics, to stand definitely for judicial reform, it is a responsibility to politics. But that's when we come to the judges. We politicians under the law need to set standards for them. Today, a citizen runs after a judge, a court dispute takes ten years. And if the judges were to make the norms that they had to conclude and process the selection of cases monthly and if they didn't do so to feel the sanctions on their own income, and if they did so in a few months in a row, to lose their right to work, then I'm telling you that the judges would then run after the citizens and then the judges would definitely solve one of the wound cancers. But it's political responsibility. We don't deal with judicial reform because apparently certain groups are gossiping about it, that the laws are mutually inconsistencies, inconclusive and that everyone can interpret them in their own way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10042	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10043	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, colleague Sponza, for this replica. Yeah, I think on all sides we're screaming at what's the problem. Screaming at us from the D.A.'s office, screaming from my board of plays and complaints, on all sides you have very similar problems and I don't think there's anyone here who's in principle not against reforming the justice system, the judiciary system, so let's finally do it. Who's in the interest? Who will come here to work if they can't get their rights after ten, twenty years? There are famous literary works, I don't know "7 years in Tibet" or "7000 days in Siberia". So you have to write a book 7,000 days in the Croatian court. I mean, where does this go? Well, no one's staying here. Of course he'll leave. So who's going to compete with this system for years. Well, that doesn't make sense! So do we really want to waste our time, our years of life on things like that? Please, nice. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10044	Replica's respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with you, colleague Sincic, that our judiciary, in fact, is a court practice, above all, a problem, that is, the inequality of the same. Now how do you handle it, I'm not a lawyer, there's a... That's what they're talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I wanted to draw your attention to another thing. In fact, we totally agree when you say that we need reforms in this segment as well. But I don't know if you've heard a colleague say we have a reform government. I don't know if you've seen that flood of reform laws and acts emanating from that government. Have you seen this flood of shifts and new people who are installed in leading posts in ministries and companies whose master of state is. Because the president of one party says the leading coalition in power is reforms. We're committed to reform seems to me, this government is extremely committed to reforms just don't know when the judiciary will turn. But I believe it will be in that flood of the city's reforms for that, too. I'm sorry for the irony, but I wanted to point out exactly what you were saying, and that's not happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10046	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10047	Thank you, Chairman. Here's counterpart Hajdukovic, I told the prime minister when he sought this trust for the government, that if he found the courage to oppose certain institutions. I then listed the National Bank, the Tax Administration, HRT, DUUDI, DORH, the judiciary, etc. Then he'll do something. If he's not gonna deal with it this year, we can see he didn't get into it at all. If it avoids what prevents Croatia's development most, then it won't do much, it will be like some previous governments. That's why I'm hoping he'll listen to my call again. He said let's accept the challenges. So accept what is hard, enter this judiciary, enter that judiciary where there's so much chaos and so much corruption and so much inconsistency. That's where we're supposed to go in, not go for a quick sellout. Anyone can sell, anyone can be in charge. It's easy. It's hard stuff to do. That's for sure, General Patton would have told him who quoted him so many times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10048	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10049	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Sincic, you mentioned in your discussion the actions in which you yourself participated, i.e. in preventing mirage. However, you didn't mention the fact that these people who had to be decommissioned, that because of your activation, we received an additional cost of around 30 thousand kuna and that the Living Wall promised them that they would pay, that this account even further burdened those citizens who were disbursed so that you didn't do them a favor, but you even got them into more debt slavery. So here's a question for you what's going to happen to that and what about those promises you promised these people?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10050	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10051	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, we didn't promise to pay such expenses. Why? So if we were to go pay something, then first we would pay our activists who got tens of thousands of kunas themselves, who also have nothing to live on and actually in a blockade go on these cases. A large number of citizens who appear to us are, in fact, already at the very bottom of so many debts, in such a blockade that if there is a punishment or a violation, or for obstructing the procedure that it is negligible in that sea of debts. And they just want people to get solidarity with them and to make it clear to the system here's enough, I won't, and we won't do it like this anymore. There are so many thirds of the cases in which we took part she solved the case let's say permanently. In a large number of cases, time is wasted, years are lost, two are lost, three are lost. The family goes to Germany, earns something, pays back something. It is time for some sort of judicial dispute to end or simply create some other assumption that this family, that this house, after all, will not be completed. So I'm personally sorry if someone got some kind of punishment. We've probably got hundreds of thousands of kunas by now, if they were to be deployed to all the activists, about seventy, eighty-eighty departures. But the message is clear that we have sent and we do not intend to give up on such an action. Lately, they've been current evictions by Raiffeisen cooperatives. It's also a problem that doesn't have much will to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10052	Replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10053	Dear colleague Sincic, I listened to your presentation and remembered just before Gordana Rusak when she said politician general practice. So the question is, you're a young man who's entered the Parliament and I see that it might feel about you, you're turning into politicians of general practice that I might agree with sometimes with you and my exposé that you're talking about demining, the dissection, everything you're talking about there's room. However, I would like to ask you a question. Imagine a man who goes to mine a field that gets up in the morning from 7, works at 5, 6 o'clock or a worker who gets up in the morning from 7 o'clock, and works so late, and it works 30, 40 years for a much less salary than we do sitting here in the Parliament, and you as a young man who entered this assembly and is the easiest to be demagogue and to talk about what's wrong. I'd like young people to spend a part of their lives in the real sector so they can feel a little life, a little bit of what it looks like and what it looks like when you're in an institution or a company that fights every day for survival. And you as a young man who entered this House here, nice, great everything you're saying is there, but I think you're so inexperienced that you young people should go a little bit earlier to do a part of the job and then come to the assembly and discuss life a little bit and everything that's going on in our society. You only say it in principle and on the surface, but it all has its other sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10054	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10055	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Misic, I did work in the real sector, and besides, I do agriculture, often without machines, so I'm doing everything on my hands. So I'm not like you tried to insinuate here lazy or something. I got into politics out of need. When I entered the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, FER's father was talking about getting a job on Friday or Monday if the weekend falls. By the time I got to the first degree at that university, then it was already said that staying in Croatia was a loss of life and colleagues had already started dating, and due to the collapse of industry it was also started to say that the only place where more electrical engineering engineers needed is at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering because their colleagues went to computerized mass because by programming as much as you can do in Croatia, you need more or less just a computer. But in order for you to be an electrical engineering engineer of some industry, there's very little in here and I can say anything less. That's what Germany is for. Many of my colleagues are in Germany right now. Well, I'm sorry you told me to go to Germany. And this is all I'm saying, so it's not just my words, I'm telling people who come to me, people who want me to listen to their things, get their papers, read their messages here. I'm not saying I know everything, and it's not the job of a representative in the Parliament to know everything, it's the government's business, it's the executive power. We're here to discuss, talk and send messages. I believe my voters are not disappointed with the mandate they gave me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10056	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10057	Dear Representative Sincic, here you have noticed at the beginning of your presentation that next week we will not work and I fully join your protest against such practice. We could've at least done Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, and another picture was defeated, and that's here, dear citizens looking here if I've counted us sitting 25 well, so the next time you go to the polls, think about who you're giving your votes to. And today we're talking here, and we're listening to the report of the attorney general yesterday. It's my question to you, do you have the feeling that we, as a Parliament, will soon appeal to the attorney general because they expect some answers from us, and we perceive our infirmity. So what's your point of view about it and what's the point of this office at all? Is he some social exhaust valve that everyone complains about what's bothering him, and when the office takes certain steps and sends further memos or something we've heard as it ends. So, a general mess in society. Do you have the impression that this is the pathology of a part of Croatian society that has tolerated this practice for years?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10058	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10059	Thank you, fellow chairman. Here's my colleague, Lovrinovic, I think it's the role of the Office of the Attorney General to record the situation, to see how the citizens breathe and what bothers them the most. And since they are not in his power to do something concrete, they can only hand over reports to the Parliament and reroute them to other institutions. Yes, I see our impotence here. I have a personal office that I've been waiting for four months there in Demetro's one pile of INA problems, second housing law, third Raiffeisen cooperatives, fourth demining, etc., etc. However, there is no way that any of this can come to an argument at all, to come here on the agenda at all, and only then to get rid of any of it. And it's very frustrating. Here I call you because you are part of the ruling coalition to do something in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10060	Thank you. Next in the debate is Honorable Representative Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10061	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed attorney with the associate, colleague and colleague, I will try to say some things in a brief discussion, I will try not to repeat what has already been said, but I will try to be brief. So, the report is extensive, that's what many predecessors said. It's very good content. I say don't kill a messenger who carries bad news, so what's in the report is that and these are the problems our citizens face. I personally think the report should be supported, and I think the D.A. did her job well with the co-workers. Of course I'm coming back again, there are no colleagues here, and neither is my colleague Murganic, who performed in front of the HDZ club, they think that the report is roughly said well, we will not support him because the lawyer did not do what she was not supposed to do in the end. It's just like if you went into a doctor's office and told them you were sitting there, and there's people walking down the street with high pressure and various diseases. So in order for a doctor to do something, they have to come to him first. So you have to get reports, says here that you had 4655 applications last year, the truth is something passed on about 1,000 applications from previous years. What we could say about this report, the key word that's being passed, and that's jurisdiction. So first of all, the jurisdiction of you as an office. I think it's mentioned, and I think here's a colleague from HDZ who didn't understand your office's jurisdiction very well. I don't know what the number is, I think it said how many of those applications you can't handle, but the citizens don't really see what your job is. What is crucial, you warn of problems in society, analyze and assess the state of protection of rights and freedom in the Republic of Croatia. Although I say this report for 2015 it gives us guidelines for the future, recommendations as the report also warns about the weak points of the system. You are not politicians, so you make recommendations that the ministry will be vertically within the ministry or between certain laws or between certain ministries is a coordination to make things better resolved. Here's to the case of the judiciary, we can see that there are 475 applications. What you're warning is, above all, the right to free legal aid. I think it's very important. Since experience also teaches us daily from the media, rich people can afford good lawyers, rich people can defend themselves well in procedures, so those who are poor need free legal help. What is not good is that public administration offices in the county do not have the obligation to keep records of users and forms of legal assistance. There are also important and specialized educations of state administration officials so that they can provide such legal assistance and provide legal assistance. Of course, that's where the public administration school appears, and again I say more jurisdiction, more areas between which coordination is needed. And what you have warned the same thing, which is the need to coordinate the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Administration with the harmonisation of the rules governing the release from payment of charges for socially endangered citizens. From the field of employment, this is the largest number of applications and discrimination, which is understandable in itself. What I don't understand is maybe you can explain later and you're complaining about the procedures of an educational inspection, we have 25 educational inspectors. Is it a lack of regulation or is there really no professional code in schools? I think the main number of complaints went to this employment on a certain time of unprofessional persons. That's how I realized it, maybe I got it wrong. And that educational inspections then didn't actually break up work contracts, but really, the situation is such that especially in rural areas, you don't have professional staff and then you hire people without qualifications. Disturbing and abuse in the workplace or popular mobbing. The labour law and the labour law are not enough to solve these problems, nor are the rules and collective agreements. Personally, I think it's, like, some kind of injury if you go to a doctor, your doctor asks you what happened and automatically reports to the police. I think the medical department here should report all those phenomena that are related to the effects of mobbing or abuse in the workplace immediately. Of course, today we live with stress, so I mean, I'm not sure how effective that would be, because in some ways the stress has become a daily life, unfortunately. Here, I don't want to be any longer. Two more things I wanted to warn you. I don't know if you're familiar with the Waterway case in Voćin, Voćin is a municipality in Virovitica-Podravska County. There, citizens and residents of Voćina pay neatly for the water they spend, but as soon as it rains, they get notifications even at school, I saw that notice at school, it says water is not for drinking, and water is from the water that is being paid. I don't know if you have that kind of application, so if you don't have it, I'm free to deliver it and see what it is, how this problem can be solved. As far as public speaking and hate speech are concerned, there's a lot to go on. I will only look back on one aspect now and it is web portals and commenting on Internet portals especially because they are in contact with young people with this area. You see, there are some comments that happen, let's just say by chance, in slow motion, someone put pressure on someone, and they commented. However, there are professional commentators who constantly spread hatred on portals. The current minister, Mr. Tolusic, the former mayor was insulting and slandering on the portal, which is why he was convicted of course under a nickname and was doing it systematically. He was doing it all the time. So if politicians do it in such responsible functions, then you can think that there are such people who will do it systematically for some money. You're here to warn that no one is doing anything. There are administrators on the portals, but it won't be useful if the police don't follow it with greater seriousness and, of course, all in order to suppress hate speech, not to ban people from freedom of speech, but to reduce really hate speech to the least possible measure because I say they're first of all in touch with children. Also mentioned are discriminatory behaviours at football matches where young people are in touch. Here's a case. It's game one. Croatian football leagues for women. So at that game, a girl scored a really good goal, made a great dribble and scored a goal. And then one of the sportsmen from the opposing club said bravo you're the only man there. Look out, these things seem seemingly harmless. However, if we do not systematically deal with these things these speeches will become more and more so to say discriminatory behaviors. And I'm telling you all this so that I can ask you now, in the end, you mentioned in the report, if you could later answer what kind of cooperation is, and how much cooperation is there between all the attorneys? So for gender equality, and for equality for children. Because without this cooperation, I don't think your work can be more quality because you look out for different areas and we're the most sensitive in this area where young people and children are in touch. Well, I hope I didn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10062	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10063	Thank you very much. You hit a fellow, and you said exactly that we're all repeating ourselves here, that the system isn't working. Absolutely citizens are here, the whole system is not in the function of citizens and I will repeat the same thing I just said that the Croatian state is absurd. Simply today the system only allows those with a party card, young people must be party. So I suggested a little while ago that it would be good for him to be a guardian for those young people who don't have a party card to defend them from those who are eligible for employment. Mostly in employment. That's a fact, and I could say that on a thousand examples. We are absurd to have more union leaders today than workers. Absurd, as colleagues Sincic and Lovrinovic said just before, would not work for a week. We're absurd when we look at the benches. So wherever we turn out to be absurd, we just need this society to root out changes, a society that has 300 billion kunas, a society that has 300 thousand unemployed, 300 thousand blocked, just needs to change things from the root, and we can only do it together, not with such insecureness on all sides. It's a basic and key problem. We're at the bottom. We've brought society to this stage that we don't have any more, it's a question of property, it's our courage to make decisions, to protect national interests, it's a question of everything. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10064	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ivan Radić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10065	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sagar, you mentioned the area of justice. The report states that during 2015, the largest number of complaints is from the area of justice, 475 of them, and these complaints mainly concern dissatisfaction with judicial decisions and the long-term length of court proceedings. 239 complaints concerned the work of the courts, mostly because of the dissatisfaction with the court decisions, those 114, the long-term length of court proceedings of 66 of them, the conduct of judges and the abuse of their position 37 of them, and the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration of them 22. In their complaints, the citizens also expressed their lack of confidence in the justice and legality of the decisions they had taken and thus in the justice system and its effectiveness. The main problems have been detected precisely the longevity of court proceedings and through dissatisfaction with judicial decisions unequal case law. According to the report, 160 recommendations have been made, a good part of which has been addressed to the Ministry of Justice and to the Judicial Academy. But what is important is that in those recommendations, none refers to encouraging the Ministry of Justice to launch through its own system a better and more effective harmonisation of judicial practice. Given that the majority of complaints are precisely due to dissatisfaction with court decisions indirectly stemming from unequal court practice, I believe it is necessary to encourage the process of unification at national level, stronger by connecting municipal and county courts with one another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10066	The reply to the replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10067	Dear fellow Radic, so here's a short one. I agree with you on what you said, as Balasevic says, I would have anything to say. So one of the basic problems in this society that has been going through for many years is the independence of the judiciary. When I say the problem isn't the problem, it has to be independent. However, anything you try to intervene, you always touch the independence of the judiciary. It really doesn't make sense, someone mentioned that for 16 years some kind of dispute has been going on with some kind of trial on labour rights. These aren't things that are normal. Someone here may have suggested that their time would be penalized by judges who would spend on a particular file in order to improve the work of the courts. However, I always say that if politics in this way tries to push the courts, then we interfere with the independence of the judiciary. Now, here's what you do if you talk to people, if you talk to people every day, probably you talk to people, they say if you steal 100 kunas, then they take your head off, and if you steal 100 million, then they take your hat off. I mean, and that's what I said in the debate, it's clear that those who have more money can defend themselves more easily because they can better lawyers. You can see that court proceedings fall for, in fact, mistakes in procedures but not because someone isn't guilty but because they're wrong somewhere in the proceedings. To conclude, it's certainly one of the most important issues of all time, and while I'm in politics people often ask, it says that someone stole a lot of things and saw him at large and walked around, he was a little peeled potatoes. If we cancel his verdict now he'll have to stick that crust back on the potatoes. It just hurts people. Here, thanks for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10068	Replica esteemed representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10069	Thank you very much. Here's a respected colleague of mine mentioned a hate speech, and through previous discussions from other colleagues of our other colleagues, we have an absurd situation. We all know that here is the creation of Croatia's state, the development of democracy to grow and democratic standards, that the issue of relations and discrimination and everything else is improving, and through these discussions I feel like we're talking about how the system is further disrupting, how it reverses, how relations are getting worse. Turns out we don't know anything but muddled ourselves, our own country, our own organization and so forth. I don't think that's true. And obviously when we don't have self-esteem ourselves, when we don't know the positive stuff ourselves, then we need an international organization,... I have one latest survey involving 96,000 people in 53 members of the United Nations on homophobia that says that, this international research that Croats are not a homophobic nation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And listening to the presentations of a number of colleagues turns out to be. A higher percentage of radical citizens who would criminalise homosexuality than us have Britain, France, the Netherlands, not to point out here data etc.. So we should respect each other a little bit more. The second thing, when it comes to hate speech, is this report by the attorney general that we don't see a methodology when it comes to discrimination, especially in this area of hate speech, so is there any protocol that determines it, or objectively objects or subjective experiences? So is this about subjectivity or objectivity about evaluation? When and how is something in one case founded and otherwise not? We have a series of cases and events, so here's hoping next year I'll get into the report and the event, the case of St. Leopold Mandic, where we have testified that individual and official institutions say it is not a hate speech because it is not directed to a specific person and this creates confusion among citizens. You can imagine how 200 thousand people who have visited and visited the Blessed Officer Leopold Mandic and, on the other hand, when also 22 thousand citizens have signed a petition to oppose these reactions and here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10070	Replica reply, distinguished representative of Tomislava Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10071	Thank you. Dear colleague Škorić, here's only about this first part of your replica, self-respect is important in the lives of an individual and in the lives of a nation if we do not respect ourselves who will respect us and I agree here. So we must have that self-respect, not muddle ourselves in front of others, in this case in front of the world. But what matters is the same in strong people, such strong nations. We can't hide under the rug of our weaknesses. We need to talk about them. So if in this country someone's rights are threatened, we have to make it clear, their rights are compromised, and we have to fix it, not hide under the carpet, and then we think that that's how we're going to create a better picture. So, in that context, I'm looking at this report. I hope what you say in the next report is that there will be the same injury, all injuries and forms of discrimination because every man, and in the end, writes in the Constitution, has the right to personal integrity, for personal respect, and in that sense we need. If we can build such a society, then we'll all be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10072	Thank you. The next in the debate is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10073	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney general, co-workers and colleagues. So they say that repeating is the mother of knowledge, and I'm afraid that all these years we've been discussing the reports of the occupier, and now there are plenty of them, I'm always repeating the same thing, and I think I should do it again because obviously, as I said, some colleagues don't even know what the role of the vehicular attorney is, and how we can expect it from our citizens. According to the structure of the cases received, it is shown that citizens often address the institution of the occupier without knowing what his role is, from some discussions, and that is where it is seen. The Attorney General or the Attorney General is not a political institution. I am not expected of you as part of this House that has chosen you, I do not expect you to react to political matters, nor is it your job, nor do you need it. Your job is human rights, your job is what's prescribed by the Law on the Public Attorney and not to react to who made a statement in politics, not to react whether it was a quorum or not, not to react to any nonsense that is eternally imputed. I guess you should have reacted to the Karamarko affair then, I guess you should have reacted to the unspeakable protests that took place on Mark's square, I guess you should have responded to everything. Well, I suggest you call daily presses and comment on the day-to-day political events, I guess that'll please your colleagues on this side of the assembly but not me because it's not your job. But let's go back to the report in question. So it is repeatedly pointed out, the report is extensive, covering all the social aspects that we, as legislators, most often deal with, in discussions on different reports, new laws, amendments and additions to laws, etc. And these are discrimination, the judiciary that has already been mentioned quite a bit so far, police actions, labour relations, socially endangered groups, vulnerable and socially marginalised groups, defenders, national minorities, etc., etc. So these are all topics dealing with the attorney general's office as we read from the report. A great deal of effort is visible, and I must especially underline it and highlight it. Namely, since we discussed, that is, when we interviewed candidates and candidates for the attorney general, when we elected you, one of your things in your program that particularly liked me was the announcement of the opening of regional offices. It is now and done and I am pleased to say that and gives the result, that in this way the services of the Ombudsman are available to our citizens and it was a great project, I remember that there were financial difficulties, but I am glad that it is solved, I am glad that you are present now in all parts of Croatia and that citizens can address you easier not necessarily in Zagreb alone. Many initiatives also came from the Ombudsman's office, as did participation in the drafting of legal proposals. So, the attorney general and her associates are always valuable when discussing the laws on boards, you always have concrete amendments, remarks, suggestions, that's certainly something to be welcomed and that's the role of the attorney general. To warn of certain failures and when the law is passed, or better solutions that can be found in legislative proposals. Here was the final example of the debate on the law in the procedure, it was the law on foreigners who prescribed very, very rigorous criminal measures in the case of criminalisation of humanitarian aid, implementing one directive, though in the strictest possible way, although the directive leaves the Member States with space to determine in which way they will punish certain behaviours, whether they will punish them at all and we have chosen exactly the worst, and that is also monetary punishment and prison punishment, therefore not or but also. Certainly this is something that I would particularly point out in your work and this contribution is seen throughout the year, therefore not only through the recommendations adopted in the report which we are now discussing already in the permanent work of the Ombudsman, so at the meetings of the Committee and in our work as legislators. Your report is a very interesting document because it gives us a clear picture, a clear summary of the state of human rights in Croatia. But I would dare say the general state of Croatian society. And so often, therefore, it is no longer an exception, but it has become a rule to actually touch almost all aspects and problems in our society from the judiciary, from the supply of electricity, water, to even the history of Ustasha, partisan. I guess these are the eternal topics in the Croatian Parliament that prevail until and not so long ago history, so we search everything from history, present and perhaps even in the future. But that's also good. That's good because it shows that your report encourages a broader debate which I hope or at least in most constructive. So, when we're talking about the Ombudsman's entry, what I would particularly refer to is I did and I said yesterday in replicas is when we look at the representation of the items that are open and finished in the year in question, so in 2015 we'll see that as much as 62% of the items received are finished with general legal information. So I have a little doubt here, that's what I said on the board. Although the Attorney General's Office is not authorized to provide legal information, it is commendable that you want to help anyone who talks to you, direct them, so where can I find a solution to my problem if it is not the Attorney General's office. We still have a lot to work on here are some colleagues, but our public knows when you're an institution to address. Only 8%, unfortunately, of the complaints and 15% of the unfounded, so somewhere around 23% of the complaints that have come have actually come to the right address. And here's a colleague who mentioned working with the other attorneys. That's about 6% of the case. So we who are members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities can testify that you work very closely, that cooperation exists, that you are in constant contact and that, therefore, the fact that we have specialised attorneys is not bad because there are contacts between you, but also because we have singled out some groups as particularly vulnerable people that we wanted to help in this way that we gave them a specialised lawyer. So this is something here from personal experience I know what many countries look at in a wonder in a positive sense and want to take over or implement, and we are still discussing possible termination. I don't think it's a good thing that the existing system is good and that it should be supported. There's another problem with the report, actually it's more of a doubt. I also mentioned it at the board meeting, but I'll take the opportunity to say it at the plenary session and that's the problem with methodology. Namely, colleagues and colleagues are aware that this report, therefore in this form, comes before the Croatian Parliament based on three laws. This is the Law on the Ombudsman, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the Law on a National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman and Demeaning Procedures or Penalty. So, if we look at the report clearly, we can only read this part of the national preventive mechanism. These other two are intertwined, so in the rest of the report. My suggestion would be possible, I know you've already thought about it, but you might want to think about at least in a summary review, give us a clear review, so the reports under these two other laws. If not in that general, or general, general, general, which you bear every year. I would also like to draw attention to the inequality of the data we receive from different institutions. Of course, it's not the responsibility of the Attorney General's Office, but it's something to deal with and standardize how to collect data. Namely, the Human Rights and Rights Committee of the National Minorities has come up with a report on the occurrences of hate crimes. Therefore, the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which are called for by the report in question, says they were recorded 47 in the year in question. According to the report received from the Ministry of the Interior, 24. So there must be a difference in methodology or office, or the Ministry of the Interior is not informed about some items, but it is something that needs to be standardised and what to work on. Cooperation with institutions, so above all, ministries, state offices, etc. I'm glad it's better year after year, even though there's still room for improvement. And I hope that in 2016, that list of ministries and institutions that are complete... The memos of the attorney general's office to be even less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In conclusion, I can say that standards are reached, so the standards of human rights in the Republic of Croatia are not so bad. There's always room for improvement. But what worries me is what the report's gonna look like this year. This year, we have witnessed many unpleasant events, restrictions on certain rights, above all the right to freedom of speech. So I'm worried that we're going to read in the attorney general's report but also in the monitorinzim,... [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] from the Council of Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any case, support the report and we will continue to monitor your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10074	Replica, the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10075	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I agree with you that we should not politicise and open political topics in this report, but rather solve the problems of citizens and the report that discusses the problems presented and point to some problems that are not now contained in the report. That's why I'm here, and I'm going to replicate to you in a way that some topics aren't open. Here is the topic of today's vulnerable group, a group of citizens whose rights have been violated, and this is already mentioned the right of owners of apartments and protected tenants. Both the past government and previous governments have done nothing about it, although the Constitutional Court pointed to the problem and ordered that the problem be resolved. And to me come complaints and our fellow citizens, and I believe that there is also a report of a part of our fellow citizens who have settled the areas that have been released in Blescu,... The structure of the Republic of Croatia, which was inhabited by BiH, Vojvodina and other parts because they unfortunately had to leave their homes and came here to the Republic of Croatia with the desire to create themselves living conditions and for their family. [[You don't understand.]] Unfortunately, to this day the right to own property over the facilities in which they are located has not been resolved. It was first stressed that these people would be assigned apartments and properties, and given the protection of ownership in the Republic of Croatia and the inalienance of ownership rights, the amendments to the law agreed to go with the sale of these facilities under conditions favourable to them so that they could resolve it. To this day, this has not been resolved, and much of our citizens have therefore moved out of the Republic of Croatia, but those who remain are asking for it to be restarted urgently and to resolve the issue means apartments and private houses. I stress that they themselves have invested part of the adjustment of these housing facilities because they were certainly damaged in the war and deserve the right to live so that they can then resolve their right to work and other rights in the Republic of Croatia. It is also just the problem of a vulnerable group, which are pensioners who have retired from agriculture and who have a pension of about 500 kuna, who live on the poverty threshold and we know that European statistics say that the poverty threshold is 1800 kuna. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] I suggest that one of the recommendations be to finally introduce a national pension in Croatia that will not be below the poverty threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10076	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10077	Thank you, buddy. I think we should open up political issues regardless, and I'll tell you why. So, because these are political topics either part of the problem or they are part of the solution. So we should definitely discuss it. I agree with you that this is a very big problem, I'm glad you're here and you've encouraged me and you've given me the opportunity and time to tell you the same interesting example from my neighborhood, from the Osijek-Baranja County of the Antunovac Municipality. Namely, locals call it the deserts, these are the settlements Rudine, Selesh, so these are the settlements built by the Croatian state for returnees, for the people who lived there and lost their houses. They got it in rohba, so they had to invest more to move in. Where's the problem? Namely, they're a privileged tenant, but they have no right to buy these objects. I'll tell you why, because those objects don't exist. They don't exist in the books of land, in the cathedral, in the garter they don't exist it's still a field. And that's a very big problem. So the state was building, the state wasn't drawing. And what's happening to you? Let's say you have a family where a real grandmother, a tenant. Grandma dies and the family is on the street because they can't inherit the right, and I can't even get into the ransom process that they would continue in their grandmother's name and the rest of the house they've invested in. That's the problem we tried to solve, what stage is it now? I don't know. I can't give you accurate information. But it's just one of a series of examples that we have all over Croatia. This is something that the front office that deals exclusively with should be dealt with in a very good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10078	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10079	Thank you very much. Col. Hajdukovic, you said that repeating is the mother of knowledge, but that finding is probably not true in practice. That's how many times a year and we haven't learned anything from it. I will read a paragraph here, "Work abuse is equally present in the public and private sectors, regardless of the degree of education, sex or age of victims." What is our system of education if the level of abuse is equal in an institution where education is at the lowest level or in an institution where education is at the highest level? Then it means our education system doesn't work because he didn't get the results, he keeps the primitive in himself. And the education system should also have a system of values. But this is repeated year after year. The truth is that the public defender has written a lot, noticed, and what can help with the analysis that the state responds to the perceived shortcomings. But I would also say that there are areas that are even more significant than those that are listed without being covered. The working relationship in the economy and crafts is not covered by wage default. Not the way it's supposed to be. That's one of the biggest problems. Overwork, work on Sundays, work up to 23 hours, night shifts, overtime and unpaid work, where are the letters from these, from a young girl who got a brain tumor because she worked every night at a consulting firm by midnight and paid her 8 hours 3100 kuna? Whose rights are at stake here? Where's the time in public, and it's the same in a social and private company, when every citizen calls and it's introduced that there's no Excuse me, just 10 seconds. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] That there is no more mutual conversation between the citizens and the institutions than the answering machine that says your waiting time is 27 minutes. So you waste your impulses and wait, and then after 27 minutes says your waiting time is still 15 minutes longer. That's the state we live in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10080	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10081	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I can agree with you colleagues, but when we discuss whether repeating is the mother of knowledge, I think she's still. But we have to keep in mind the attorney general, in this case the attorney general, is an extended hand of the Croatian Parliament in the protection of human rights. And she's responsible to us who chose her. And we're responsible to the citizens. We get that document I suggest to everyone to read it that we're not supposed to be the leader's star to say so. These recommendations there should serve us as a reference, since we are a legitimate body, as a reference in the future, when we pass laws, we write new laws and what we need to change and how. Because these are concrete examples of practices that are not right with the system, where rights are violated, etc. I agree with you that education is always the key. I may be a little subjective here because I come from that resistor, so education, but I've always said, so when we talk about violence, inappropriate behavior, etc. 1 kuna in prevention is 4 kuna saved in recovery. Whether it's physical injuries, psychological injuries that suffer abuse, etc. Our education certainly needs to be modernised, that is, what we need to do is return to education. We used to have education and education now all we have is education. Our children now learn only facts, and they don't unfortunately learn how to live, how to be responsible citizens, how to be responsible individuals. That's what our system lacks. Kuricular reform, the Croatian qualification framework, are all the tools that can be used to achieve this. Unfortunately, there are a lot of problems about this, with the continuation of the curriculative reform of the Croatian qualification framework, so I call on you as a colleague of the majority to help us to keep these processes from going further and modernising our education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10082	Thank you. The next in the debate is Honorable representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10083	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed attorney general with the associate, had a report from the occupier for 2015. It's a comprehensive, very comprehensive document that goes into a variety of topics, and each of us refers to the part that's close to him or the part that he's been working on, something more knows and needs to be pointed out. However, there is one common denominator of all this, the common denominator of all this is that complaints to their citizens who appear to the occupier warn that they are on the verge of despair, that they are lost patience due to years of unsuccessful wandering around the system, that they are not sufficiently informed about their rights. And in this debate, I would only refer to one piece of the document. One part of the document speaks of social housing, and we must make it clear and loud that when it comes to housing, it is one of the rights that if our fellow citizens solve their housing opportunities in an adequate way means having among other and satisfied citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But we didn't do social housing. And often POS is treated as a social housing. It's not social housing, it's a program that the state has made for all its citizens and where they have to meet certain conditions. The same way we had the opportunity to see when the rental program was open that the rental apartments were reported by people who think and say we have to have priority because of their social status. That's not the way it is. Social housing deals with our municipalities and cities in a variety of ways. We had the opportunity not so long ago to have a report on the property of municipalities and cities, and in that report on the property of municipalities and cities it was seen that there were a terrible number of apartments that were not detained for purposes, apartments that were not used and apartments that were not used adequately. And we think the time has come for this subject to be discussed among other things. Often, however, our fellow citizens appear to the occupier, but this is the authority of municipalities and cities. And now it's only a matter of whether that intelligence remains at the level of the municipalities and cities or whether the state is involved with stronger programmes in this problem. So I think that's one of the topics that results from this report is thinking. When you have a report like this, some of us use that opportunity to position the left, right of the center. I'm taking this opportunity to talk about those problems that are our fellow citizens' problems. Equally when it comes to municipal infrastructure, municipal public services, these are services also provided by regional and local self-government units. And what's the minimum standard, minimum standards are water, drain resolution and power supply resolution. We still have cases in Croatia today where some parts of people do not have solved electricity and there is one example that was a positive example, when it was tried by a wind power plant or another way with alternative energy sources to solve this problem for 4 or 5 houses. So that's the minimum standard they should have. There should be water supply. So water supply is one of the topics and it is interesting to see that in Croatia it is not solved in an adequate way, i.e. the right way. This should also refer to this conference, which was far from the city and from the right. And it says human rights on rural areas. The conference is organised in the co-operation of the attorney general together with, on the occasion of the international day of human rights, together with the lawyer for gender equality, the Ombudsman for children and the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. In Croatia, according to the last census, there are about 4 million and 300 thousand of us somewhere. Of that, more than half lives in rural areas, and we need to talk about sustainable development, when we talk about even development, and we need to keep that in mind. Keep in mind that there are indeed 2 million of our fellow citizens living in rural areas, which in equal development certainly cannot have and there will be some difficult situations to be like fellow citizens in cities. In this particular case, I will refer to the fact that when you look at complaints that are, 35% of complaints are from the capital city, the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb is often a picture of some events that are in Croatia. In recent years, we have a truly one picture that is related to kindergartens where it has been seen that the last 30 years relative to kindergartens, compared to the organisation of kindergartens, have not changed much compared to work. And then of course we all have absolutely the right to ask a question. And the question is, if it is not in the city of Zagreb, how do you expect it to be resolved in some other environments? And then you have the answer that in some other municipalities and cities it is much better solved than it was settled in the city of Zagreb. But the right to put their children in kindergartens has our citizens no matter where they live. The right to have a water line, to have electricity, so to have some basic elements, they really have our citizens no matter where they live. And a report by the attorney general would indeed be very useful for all those who manage the premises that deal with it to read that part because this part speaks of the real state of Croatia. When we look at Croatia, we see the situation in cities. So I repeat 2 million of our fellow citizens live outside the urban environments, live in rural areas and have to look at their facts, conditions and the way they live. In 2015, the year was the year where the United Nations declaration and the adopted United Nations declaration, which says the 2030 Sustainable Development Programme, which has 17 clear objectives, absolutely all agreed with the programme. However, he has for the first time and one thing and these are financial frameworks. You know, at the declarative level, when a strategy is adopted and beyond the strategy, we can all very easily agree. However, when you have financial frameworks, there are financial frameworks and financial obligations. I remember one period, I can also relate it to spatial planning because spatial planning is always about politics, always related to some balanced and sustainable development when spatial plans had their own financial frameworks and when spatial planning was a special part that spoke of what financial means for a single unit of local self-government, for a part of the country to realize that plan. It will therefore be very interesting to observe the 2016, 2017 reports because these are some of the commitments that Croatia will have globally. And we can indeed agree declaredly and say nature protection, cultural heritage protection, sustainable development. However, it will be interesting to see what sustainable development means under the financial structure. Sustainable development means that all parts of Croatia and all of our citizens in any part of Croatia have equal rights to certain basic things as they have in cities. It will be interesting to see what this financial part means, which means the financial part to organise infrastructure, organise infrastructure and for some parts of Croatia where it is of interest for people to live, to live young families, to live families that have children because it only allows Croatia to develop. Somewhere there when I went to high school and it was a long time ago, they taught us and said there was a white plague. And then it was very strange to me, of course, that it was a white plague. The white plague is the abandonment and settlement of certain parts of the country. If we want to have sustainable development, if we want people to live in all parts of the country, then we also have to have some financial frameworks. And it will be really interesting to see what this means that in every area of our country we have conditions for the quality of life of our fellow citizens. So that's it. From the attorney general's report, everyone reads it in a different way. I read it exactly like I said. What this means for Croatia's development, which means sustainable development and which means providing two elements. One element is work, the team will deal with another, but the other element is a quality housing element. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10084	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10085	You yourself have said that in Croatia there is a problem centralised. If we had areas underdeveloped, everyone called for even development, but Croatia is centralized so that over time these areas are where I come from and I'm essentially moving out, because I see that everything is going towards... that they settled in large areas, large cities such as Zagreb and that was well noticed by the Ombudsman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Like you said, certain areas don't have water. So let's say that the village of Svilja, the village of Ilovo, which has no water, in which people cannot live. Gardens are unimaginable for these areas, health services are unimaginable, organised transport is unimaginable. And of course what's going on? It's like someone's targeting the state. And when one of us, in this case MOST, says we need to decentralisation the state, that we should... What's going on? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because of what the decentralised funds towards the counties are going to go back to being politically shared on the political key. I know that Zagreb is the capital, but if this policy continues towards my end of Cetinski, Gorski Kotar, Slavonia, Lici, if this policy continues, we will remain a wasteland except Zagreb. And that's the worst policy that could have happened. The Cetina landscape, for example, we have the production of 40% of electricity produced by the river Cetina stream. To see what kind of infrastructure, electrical grid, what kind of voltage, disaster. It's just that everything, it's been absolutely centralized both during you and previous governments. And all you have to do is decentralize the funds, reduce the number of counties and municipalities. But you're not exactly as kind as you were four years ago in your 21 program, and I hope you'll support us... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10086	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10087	Thank you very much. When I answer to my colleague Bulju, then I don't know if I should answer one way or another because I can't forget to raise my replica, answer the line. Realistically speaking, cities have always been a topic of interest. And you've always had cities actually filling you and your population in a way that devastated or drained you from a certain area and that's what you have in Croatia, Osijek, Zagreb, Rijeka and Split. It is certainly not an interest and certainly decentralisation is one of the good options, good variants but in order to carry out decentralisation, it is not only decentralisation of the jobs with which we were very inclined but also decentralisation of the funds. When you watch a little bit of what happened and how it happened historically, then democracy is actually the way you go along with democracy has some consequences. If you would allow me a little two sentences, as much as I still have time, you know, Albania was during the Enver Hodxhe country that had 100% literacy. Enver Hodxha then brought asphalt to every village, there was a teacher in every village, there was a doctor in every village and every village had electricity. And then when democracy happened and there they realized democracy in a way that they had broken the asphalt roads and devastated everything that he had done. He made it for some other reason, but the basis that you can expect at all is the development of roads in terms of schools, so education, health and basic infrastructure, and that is how we can even expect to give basic preconditions for the devastated and abandoned parts of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10088	All right. Replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10089	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tarritash, you've said perfectly well that someone is serving this positioning thing, I'm sure in your debate it didn't work out for me either. But I was offered a replica of the quality of the apartment. And then I remembered one article, I went to seek it out urgently, 15.05.2012. HRT published the following article: "We have reported several times so far the problems of the Croatians from Kosovo near Petrinja. Still, it seems that after many years, despite many promises, there is no movement. However, a certain problem has already been solved." 20 years have passed and 4 years since this article, the problem of the exiles of the Croats from Kosovo has not been solved. And I don't dare speak of living conditions because they're not conditions. Those are the forest conditions. A pasta settlement was built in Dumacama, a settlement that was built and they must be in the woods there in containers without heating. What kind of kindergartens and schools? The kids can't go anywhere. And that no one in the state, and there's no record of that in the public defender's report, for 20 years there's nothing about them and everyone in promises that it'll be settled. It's never moved, let alone solved. And here you see after four years of what's going on, it hasn't been moved, and then it says it's already settled. That doesn't satisfy at all, it's a health-threatening area without talking about the mental state of those people who came there 20 years ago and that nobody takes care of them. And we talk about an individual every day, and we write about how his rights are threatened, and he enjoys his rights. We can be ashamed of all of us compared to the Croats from Kosovo and the border settlement near Petrinja, and you know it can be solved within a month if anyone wants but has to talk about it by the public defender.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10090	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10091	Thank you very much. Croatia has come a very difficult way in a short time. This difficult road was also the war that was in these areas, the result of that war was indeed certain settlements and you are right that these settlements, specifically when you speak in Petrinja, were not solved and that is the problem to be solved. I didn't refer here when I had the exposure, you have the part that's the connection to the housing office. With that housing office, there was a road going on that wasn't good. You know, at one point, I felt like we were all treating him like an unwanted child, because there's a lot of problems out there. So it was in one ministry, then in another ministry, and then in the third ministry, it was an independent office. And that's certainly not good. I can agree with you that it's not good. We should at least try to solve all the remains that we have left with the Homeland War that we have and the remains that are and we can't expect it to solve the municipalities or the city on whose territory it is because it's impossible to relate to their budget, but they have to have minimum, minimum infrastructure. In this village they were lost and without that infrastructure and I know what it was about, but at the time it wasn't really in my ministry's intelligence, but it doesn't matter, it's not the cornerstone of the intelligence or anything. You need to know about the problem, you need to know about the solution and at least tell someone to sit down and let's go solve it. So it's not just the point of moving balls from one to the next, it's solved. And it would be good to make sure that all those backlogs that are left of the Homeland War are really properly and well solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10092	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10093	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, in your debate, mentioned the importance of making certain services available to citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and you specifically mentioned water and electricity and I agree with you, these are the necessary preconditions, of course with more traffic, i.e. certain health and social services that both the state and local self-government units must provide. What is particularly worrying and you mentioned it is also inequality, not just what Mr. Bulj says big cities and small cities. You have big cities, so Zagreb is such a city where everyone has not yet water to their houses brought. You have differences in water prices as reported in this report from 9 kuna per cubic to 27 kuna. So that's a hell of a difference. For example, in Zagreb, the price is about 16 kuna, 17 per cubic bit of water, which, in fact, given the amount of consumers, should not be like that, should certainly be lower than what it is. So you should consider not only I would say the capacities of certain units of local self-government, but also the will of these units of local self-government to solve problems. What I do not think we can be pleased with is that in Zagreb we have a situation where the mayor of Zagreb pays much more attention to the running water that will be scattered through our new fountains around which unfortunately no one will walk because they are not in the pedestrian zone, but in bringing their citizens water to all their houses. And here in the last period, so in the last term, we don't have any excessive shifts that were expected to be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10094	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10095	Dear colleague Maras, you gave me a chance to say a few words about the city of Zagreb. So our mayor really likes fountains and there's no dilemmas here and with as much as possible. However, the location of these fountains is interesting. These fountains are located there in the vicinity of the thorns. Trnje is a skipped part of the city of Zagreb in development, the city deliberately skipped some parts because he did not know what to do with them. And then close to these fountains, you don't have liquid water and they don't have drains of people living on that thorn no matter how terrible it sounds, but that's the case. Even more scary, let's say that from the square Ječačić pays 500 m north one elite part of the city of Zagreb, the street of Kraljec I think those who live here and know what it is. Just like that, look at the wonders, there's no water. So when I'm talking about some basic stuff, then it doesn't even matter and the parts of the city are absolutely skipped, by any chance, are you deliberately. It's hard for me to say. You know well that I'm a nerd and that really for every piece of information I say I'm trying to find support, or I absolutely don't want to have a dilemma that I have to answer one way or another. Imagine when you're running one of the capitals, and that's about 16 years old. And in 16 years in the city of Zagreb, you haven't built a single meter of tram track, not a single serious road. The last serious road to be built now is Branimir. But you do make fountains. That's where you really need to ask yourself and see what that's all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10096	Thank you. Replica Honorary Representative Milorad Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10097	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Taritash, you have gone beyond the scope of these discussions we listened to yesterday and today and you have encouraged me to think a very important topic, which is what we in HNS talk about very often. First of all decentralisation, the creation of conjecture, the creation of a prerequisite for survival and for staying in places where all our citizens, or society of equal chances, live. Of course, the vast majority of all the questions concerning these topics you spoke about are also related to local self-government. And a citizen every first time he has a problem comes to the level of local self-government at the head, whether in the administrative department or something. However, it is also a matter of fiscal capacity and opportunities for certain environments to address certain problems that are necessary. So even our Constitution in Article 138 states that the state is obliged to provide financial assistance to those environments that cannot respect what has been passed by law, in the Law on Local Self-Government, so that perhaps one day the mayors of the municipality will also send a letter to the Advocate General and we will complain about the problems we face. But the only solution is decentralisation. Namely, when you mentioned Zagreb at the time, I remembered an example from the local level, we would like a better quality road, we would like to edit the promenade etc. And now I have three elementary schools in the city. Two are on one shift, one has failed, and so on. Then I say, I will arrange for you once on a trip to Zagreb, so I will take you for a ride on the Zagreb roads. And when it comes to school, then I will say in Zagreb, unfortunately, some of the primary schools work in three shifts without talking about kindergartens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10098	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10099	Thank you very much. Comrade Batinić, we discussed decentralisation. Decentralization is really necessary. Sustainable development is a handsome syntax to say so. However, if there is a desire for sustainable development and even development, then this must be the role of the state. So, we have municipalities and cities that are really able to do this on their own with their smart policies, and I think when I talk about politics, I'm talking about space management policy. We're able to do this on our own. However, we must be aware that we have municipalities and cities that are unable to do so on their own, and there is an invaluable role of the state. The state must not be a stepmother. The state in that case really has to help. They're good-looking analyses that have been done in relation to the communal fee. So the communal fee is one of whether or not we call it tax, parafiscal imposition, because it's not a parafiscal imposition but one day it will pass in, the tax is exclusively in the jurisdiction of local self-government units, or it goes into the budget of the units of local self-government. And then if we remember that communal fee correctly, only part of it was possible to solve. And then it happened to you that the municipalities that had a great communal fee were irrevocably washing the streets because they could only do these kinds of activities. The communal fee, we have partially opened it and it needs to be opened to the end. However, we really need to make it first and foremost for all municipalities and cities to do a job that is, to see who needs to be helped. The role of the state is to help those who need help for a simple reason, there is no sustainable and there is no even development without it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10100	Thank you. Here's a distinguished representative, and I'll set a lunch break by 3:00 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The word has a distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10102	Here we are, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, continuing our session at 15.00 hours as you have announced. I'd like to check the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10103	There's no vote, when it's voted, then we check the quorum. Please, as far as I can tell, everyone who signed up for the word is here, so let's take it in a row. The debate was attended by a distinguished representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, strict measures in HDZ aren't worth it. Yesterday, HDZ President Karamarko said he would also punish those who are not present, and now we see that there are no representatives of HDZ in the assembly when talking about such a difficult and important topic for Croatian citizens. And de facto people must have realized that their salary was enough to come once in four weeks to vote off certain constituencies and go home to where my dear ones are. But good. As regards the report itself on the work of the Ombudsman, as of course all other colleagues in the SDP Club, I have a very positive opinion on it and do not share the views of individual HDZ colleagues who have reached the conclusion by the increased number of applications that the situation has deteriorated. It says that the office has functioned, that people have someone to turn to, that people recognize the benefits of the attorney general and that this is how it should continue. Now, the question is why and in which part and segment of the complaint has increased, of course, depends on political actors, or us acting in Croatia and parties and individuals. My warm recommendation to all of us is to try to make these complaints as little as possible in the future, and to devote as much to this business as possible in front of us, not to go back. Perhaps then the high Commissioner for, or member of the Human Rights Commission, Mr Nils Muznieckis will not have that conclusion after leaving Croatia and says that, unfortunately, there are alarming tendencies in Croatia or that ethnic intolerance is growing, that hate speech is growing. It's our job in fact and the team should be involved in the future. So less tension and more dialogue. And more respect for the law. That's what's most important about our country and our citizens. On that side here I always like to take advantage of the opportunity and show on something that is totally unacceptable both in this House and in our society and these are the words we had a few weeks ago that our fellow MPs too would say so not only pressure but the lowest possible passions of accusations because politically at that time both sides felt threatened. One's status right is what he gained during the Homeland War and deserved honestly. There can be no reason why he would, after justifying certain irregularities that are happening today in Croatia, be exposed to attacks of the lowest possible species. Unfortunately, this is usually about a foreigner who also serves several individuals. Of course we all know what this is about, I'm here to support my colleague Bull in everything that's been happening to him these past few weeks. We see that today, a colleague who has performed the attack so low is also awarded the post of president of the City Assembly in the City of Zagreb by HDZ and Milan Bandic. So these are the people who should be an example of how to operate in Croatia, and these people, I guess today, when a man represents the City of Zagreb as president of the Assembly, should promote tolerance in Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia. I am sorry, here joined my colleague Maric but I am sure that he does not support such attitudes, but I am sorry that there is no colleague here to simply be told that he should be ashamed of him and that with his actions in the future, he contributes to the fact that perhaps some other people will be led in this way and that the status rights they have earned will be taken as a difficult circumstance, as some of their minuses, in fact because these people should be proud of what they have earned, and especially when it comes to defenders who have defended our country. Of course, there is always a question of why you are in the company of such people and why you are hand in hand with them because I personally would never be attracted to such a society regardless of political and ideological views. There are people who are correct, good, decent, cultural and there are others. In this case, it's about teams that encourage such things, not good people, and MPs not to talk. So all of us together should be committed to getting our attorney-in-law as much space as possible in the future for work and support for work. We've seen totally inappropriate statements today, also from HDZ colleagues who said she was painted in the SDP, red. It is not a place where one party is protected, where it protects anyone by political approach but only protects those who are powerless in our society. Did I mention the question of justice which is the biggest problem for me in our country and in our society, whether about minority rights, whether about employment rights and people who are over 50 years of age who are hard to find a job and precisely these suggestions that the attorney has made for the programme, whether new employment programs are dedicated to people who, after 50 years, can't find a job because it's ugly to hear but no one wants to hire them. They want all the people who are out of college or who have some experience and who are younger, but our country needs to do programs to help people who are out of work after 50 years. And a large number of people, as seen in the report, are just you and among them dominated by the number and percentage of the unemployed. If 30% is the average, the average of undeveloped Croatia is much lower or double lower and there is a big problem. As far as local powers go, I'm already talking about it. I also had a very uncomfortable meeting yesterday with one of the directors of the City of Zagreb, who obviously as well as the whole of society there owns Zagreb and thinks that Zagreb is a god-given and that they are the only ones who can manage Zagreb in the right way. And to every problem you warn them about, whether it was water, whether it was traffic, whether it was aunts in kindergarten that were exposed to pressures, I'm going to say it all the time because that's what they tell me every day. They react aggressively and react in a way that no one has the right to object and always have the same answer Zagreb is the best, Zagreb is beautiful and no one in Europe is equal to him. But the facts say something completely different. At 7 billion kuna in Zagreb, all these potentials our city has in Zagreb almost nothing new capital was built last year except here I told a congress center near Velesajama which is also a project of state and POS apartments near the Sava which are also a project of the state. So in Zagreb there's almost nothing to do, and that's not what my colleague Bulj does when he says everything about Zagreb, believe it's an illusion. So the potential Zagreb has is 10 times greater than it is realized. But good. So what I'd like to say for the end is full support to the attorney general. I think he's doing a great job. I'm glad, on the one hand, I'm glad on the other hand I'm not glad there's a lot of applications. I said I was glad that people obviously feel the need to have and the ability to have a call and that they will respond on their behalf. And once again, please respond to what I said yesterday, to these pressures that expose 5 thousand workers in preschool education in the City of Zagreb because this pressure is one of the ugliest possible, existential, because they are threatened at that level not to join other unions and that in some way they are afraid of their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10105	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10106	You say colleague Maras, there is no colleague of Andrija Mikulić here who insulted our colleague Bulj. But it's not a problem that there's no Mikulic here, there's no one here from HDZ. A colleague, Maric, is an exception that confirms the rule. No one is being debated about the Attorney General's Report and its task is to protect citizens from the repression of the state body. So it protects human rights. It's a subject that obviously HDZ doesn't care about. Yesterday, for this debate, they used it to insult the attorney general, to attack her, to ignore her today. That's the problem, fellow Maras. The relationship of the ruling party to the protection of human rights. Instead of respectfully treating them with all due respect, they're dealing with jumps. HDZ President Karamarko says the SDPs will end up in hell, which is what he's dealing with. I'm telling him Karamarko better in hell than Remetics.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10107	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10108	Comrade Stazic, what you noticed is very, not very much but quite true. A colleague Maric is there as a de facto because he is always there, but when topics like this are so important, there is no HDZ rule. I'm a little worried there's no Mr. Shucker, I don't know if he's still in the saddle or not, whether these things have changed. But what I'm going to tell you one more time, Mikulić is the problem, Mikulić is a huge problem. He's the president of the City Hall as of today. It's a shame for me as a Zagrebian to be represented by this man. So low, inhuman and below each level, the representative of the citizens of the City of Zagreb must not behave. And as far as I'm concerned, it's better that man isn't even here. Because on that side he disgraced not only his own party, here I am now even defending HDZ but all the citizens of the city of Zagreb because he is the president of the assembly today. But of course Bandic doesn't mind, that Karamark doesn't mind. These guys are actually ideal for them. I'm just saying, I'm sorry what sometimes when you can choose society you choose wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10109	I'd only like to intervene as chairman, I'm asking you to stick to the subject. I think you have every right to say it, and that's why I didn't interrupt. And colleague Stazic and you, Mr. Maras, but I ask you that the next one who answered the line to stick to the topic. We know what this is about. But I allow the subject of human rights to be broad and to be able to talk about everything. But after all, my colleague Mikulić is not here. The next one came in for the replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10110	A colleague, Maras, spoke here of human rights, above all, of a representative who is being violated by other MPs who do not respect the Constitution. And the attorney general is our authority to protect the rights of citizens. So we here need to be the most sensitive when the right of someone who happens in front of us is violated. And that's why my colleague Maras rightly says what happened to my colleague Bull, so it's not an insult, it's not slander, it's much worse and harder than that. The fundamental, not only rights but fundamental values of the Constitution have been violated. Every representative has immunity but that immunity is very limited, it is limited to the opinion given and to the vote. Therefore, a parliamentary representative cannot be called either on civil or on any responsibility given how he voted or expressed his opinion on any issue. But what happened and with the right to do so, it can't just go away, and it rightly warns fellow Maras. No matter what we do with some colleagues, whether we agree or not, so what happened to our colleague Buljo never happened in the Croatian Assembly that some of them happened, they did, that they sent media warrants with falsified data and that with the sealing of the body of persecution, that's why there's something, about anyone, that we enjoyed, you know. However, to read information that is only a crime in hand, it is still being read publicly in order to make a political reckoning or silenced fellow Bulj. Well, that's something scary. And that goes beyond that, it's not covered by immunity, and it's not an insult or a slander. It's punishment, committing a crime, at least two.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10111	I'm asking you and I'm warning you, that's why I also said that the broad topic is okay, you have the right to warn everyone, but the topic is, that is, the item of the agenda of the 2015 Public Attorney's Report. As far as I know, what you're talking about happened in 2016 and it's okay and it's correct to articulate it. I don't mind. But I ask you, according to the Rules of Procedure, to stick to the subject of the agenda. I mean, I don't want to, and I don't want to discuss the Rules of Procedure here right now, any warning, and I don't think there's any time or place for that. But here I'm saying we go to the topic and agenda as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I am asking you, therefore, to report to the attorney general for 2015. We can mention an example from this year but here I beg you, I appeal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. It is a part of the 2015 report called citizens' status rights. Our citizens used to rebel very often when someone was checking the state institutions for certain information about whether they were at a certain residence and exercising certain rights. You know that there was one case when it was justified even the public found out that one minister was registered at another address and did not pay taxes and these are normal things. Our institutions need to check certain data and not be angry with the police, and we see that the police have been doing this job quite correctly because since 2000 and some reports only 10% have been partially or completely correct, which means 200ths of them all year round. It's not too many numbers, but this isn't about institutions, this is about a political bully who didn't mind such a thing when it came to the government, when he needed Mr. Bulja's hand. It did not bother him when today in the Assembly or today in the assembly he became the president of the City Assembly but he was distracted when Mr. Bulj warned of something that was justified and it was the protection of national interests. And that man, and that's why I'm saying it's connected to this, wants to intimidate not only the citizens but he wants to intimidate the representatives and everyone in Croatia, don't play with me, don't play with HDZ because anything can happen to you. We'll dig up, we'll figure it out, we'll construct everything just to discredit you. That's why she has to react when it's discussed with the attorney general. And this case, I think, deserves to be specifically processed in the 2016 report next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10113	Replica, Honorary Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you forced me into a replica for a few reasons. The first Croatian Democratic Community has today's central committee, so representatives are in session of the Central Committee that is still going on. Second, why are you checking up on me? Don't you know after so many years that I don't support primitiveism, that I despise primitiveism? But I don't despise a man with primitive habits, but I'm always talking about phenomenon, phenomenality. No one's opinion bothers me, no one's attitude bothers me. But it bothers me when someone insults someone, when someone does. Although that subject of spreading hate, encouraging hate is a very slippery area, but insulting is inadmissible to human behavior, and I would like to see you get lost, too, maybe you're not aware, you said earlier, I wish that man was gone, no, it would be better if that man didn't. If he's in the assembly, then maybe. That's a big difference. Yes, yes, but in Croatia, he is offended and insulted here. Remember how just an insult to the rain, you can call out from this side but what an insult to the rain and that side, ever, right? But cases are treated differently. They appear but are treated differently, even when one journalist doesn't write a column for a list then the whole of Croatia gets on its feet and when another journalist like the one who got fired yesterday and this esteemed journalist gets fired suddenly then the whole public shuts up from the lawyer to the others. No one even knows he lost his working relationship because he wrote the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10115	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10116	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, I hope that you too may have lost consciousness now that you have said that HDZ has a central board and that this is why the HDZ representative is not here in the assembly. Well, it's not HDZ above the state. If so, if this is true why HDZ is not here then it is a very clear message for both Karamark and HDZ what they think of the Croatian state, the Croatian Parliament and what is most important about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They obviously have a party above the state. When the Croatian Parliament held this session to its party meeting, and it is obvious that they should hear it, of course, because this limited transfer is not going to be seen by the citizens, but here I call on the journalists who are following us to pass on that HDZ has subordinated its party obligations due to a session of the Central Committee or, as you said, there is now no HDZ representative as long as the meeting in the Croatian Parliament. As for Mr Mikulić, you've heard this correction right now, I didn't want anything wrong with man's life, and I wouldn't want him to end up in hell because of those words he sent to Mr Bulje. So here's how much I'm actually kind to him and willing to understand the weaknesses that happen to a man at one point but we can't support that, and in the future, that kind of thing should be avoided because it's simply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10117	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10118	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, a personal attack on me or anyone in a way that is not allowed by law or in any other way is offended is less important. It's very important in perception. It's very important who gets hit. I'm proud to have protected at some point national interests, and my confirmation of that is exactly the reaction of that gentleman I should even mention his name to. So, I'm very proud of these last month that I've done and, of course, everyone's talking about themselves and about the coalition, the cooperation, I can work with everyone here, the least problem for me is the good stuff, so that's less important. And personally, I said from the pay phone, what I had to say, now I could do the same thing, but I'd be boring. So this intelligence call that works when it comes to protecting national interests will respond to everyone, to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Personally, I am proud of all my comrades, defenders for what we have done for our Croatia, especially those who have left their lives underground, and apparently some people would say a lot that we have stayed underground too, and I, so they would come to worship, to lay on the crowns and now. But we were lucky to stay alive the way we are. The biggest problem, I was just saying to turn on the right topic is to kill the centralization. The fact is that maybe Zagreb can be in much better shape but the main problem is centralisation of both ministries and resources. This I can testify from my end and this is the basic problem of these undeveloped areas, so in Croatia the inequality of citizens from this arises, we do not have the same conditions on all issues, health care, education and that is the basic problem. And as the city can function, the local level of that I can't testify here I don't live here but surely the sea better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10119	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10120	Thank you very much. The problem is, Mr. Bull, when that intelligence underground finds its own paths and directions through politics, it's not exactly like that. I can't co-operate with anyone. I can't co-operate with everyone especially not with what you said and you said you had a very rich war route, imagine if you had such fighters in that way if at that moment he thought you weren't in the same positions that you would believe him. This is also in some way a struggle for Croatian interests, so how can you trust such people. Well, I guess there's some limit below which you can't go or everything is allowed. If all is allowed, then I'm just worried about Croatian citizens. If we go from opportunity to opportunity and everything is allowed and how everything is set up will be. If you can go with anyone, I can't. As for Zagreb, you are right, it is better, but it is not nearly as much as it should be and how much Zagreb has potential. And as for decentralisation and centralization, we also give you great support in further decentralisation, and we have had the same large debate over reduced number of counties. But you see it's not going again, it's not going again. You don't go either, so suggest something in the House, I'll be the first to support you if we go that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10121	Thank you. Next in the debate is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The report as a report was done well on all matters. Efforts have been made and a picture of the Croatian society has been shown which is painful in terms of equality arising from this Constitution, so the Constitution does not respect both territorial and individual groups. It's a fact and it's visible from everything my colleagues have listed. I'm going to be caught in part, and that's undeveloped areas, areas of special state concern, since the esteemed attorney said that most, we don't know the exact number, but a lot of these areas have even unresolved water supplies. So basic living conditions, electricity. It is now in the 21st century, so I can say here in the Chetin area, the Dalmatian Zagora are numerous villages and places without these conditions, and we will not talk about kindergartens, schools, transportation of students who absolutely do not have bus lines or any organised options regardless of what gives the ministry the opportunity. I also wrote to the D.A. when I was a councilman, meaning the ministry co-financed but there is no interest in the carrier transporting it, so these are the problems of these children and of course that encourages our people to essentially address the problem of moving our people and cities such as Zagreb, Split and a few other cities. So we literally have a burnt country of the Cetina region, the Dalmatian Zagora, the whole part of the village of Gorski Kotar and like as we pass by these areas we see Slavonia of course, we see that there are no more children, no more salaries, meadows are empty, no children's cries at all, and that's the worst that can happen in the Republic of Croatia. It's a bigger monster than during the Turks. At that time, the people survived in these areas in battle very hard, but it survived, it lasted. But this is best that in the independent Republic of Croatia, which in the last 20 years we have been trying to build, unfortunately, that we have broken down, so we have these inequalities or discrimination against these people in these areas. We have a problem that these people are leaving and that these ends are extinct which were otherwise potentials not only in terms of development potentials as labour, but in human resources, which were then numerous families that moved to Zagreb after their studies, many have been around the world. So we have a big problem that a few years ago happened how unequal the relationship with these people is. Health services are catastrophic. An example in the Cetina region, a woman has to wait six months to sign up for an ultrasound checkup. Once, then there's one day only enrollment is a few miles, but they come in four hours to get on, if they get signed up, because they're listed for 500, 600, and they're waiting for 10,000 women. So if they're lucky enough to get checked out in half a year, then if they can't wait another half a year to sign up for a breast ultrasound checkup so that a number of people are basically in line, they're just waiting for a health check-up just to die. It's the same problem with school. Well, it's amazing and impossible for me to imagine and I'm glad that in Zagreb we have free textbooks for elementary school students. But what kind of justice and equality towards children in those poor places where parents don't work, don't get paid, live in very bad conditions, that these children, that parents have to buy them textbooks. Imagine how unsocial we are, I mean, we have this constitution, and we better not have written it if we don't respect it for 20 years. And those kids can't have, they don't have the right to free textbooks, and we're not going to get into trouble what a disaster is that we have 4, 5 publishing houses, so every year the textbooks change. It is again a bargaining, an interesting bargaining once again a political favor to sell as many books and textbooks as possible, which is when I know it's a market, but it must be legally limited to those textbooks, I when I was a kid, I was from a number of families. I had my sister's basic school textbooks, and that's how we went to school, because basically all we did was change the covers and some kind of informal stuff in there. So injustice to the children of elementary school, it's pain to the sky. That's injustice over injustice. So it is the responsibility of all of us here to change, because it is unimaginable for me if the local self-government in Zagreb can buy it without the state buying it in other parts. I mean, that's what you need to work and build on, because that's what those ends are, there's no Croatia. What are we going to do with this space? We're moving someone in? If we rent someone, we'll live in Zagreb, we'll rent someone, and we'll all live in Zagreb or something. So these are very important discriminatory issues for children from underdeveloped areas, and policy should be manifested on this issue. The D.A. can warn about this, but still politics ultimately brings, politics solves these problems. So the problem here is how much we're all going to be able to change things together in a situation where we have 300 thousand unemployed, I repeat, 300, 300, 300, 300 thousand unemployed, 300 thousand completed and 300 billion kuna debt. This is about that area. So I'll tell you the example in Sinj, I'll give you a few cities, in Sinj in 2001 there were 70 thousand inhabitants in Sinj Municipality, in 2001 there were 52 thousand inhabitants, and according to the 2011 census there were 48 thousand inhabitants. And today, many of our youngsters are going to the world every day so that this rapacious number of our youngsters is leaving in one direction all the means of transport, the planes, the buses as anyone manages. It's sad that they're happy, it's sad that the parent says I'm happy my child went to Germany, Sweden, but still works maybe to create a family. We brought Croatia to this level. These border areas must be corrected by the changes to the new law I expect now and promised by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Regional Development that they will return and that what was wrongly done a few years ago will be just. With this expectation, in 2017, I hope that all other policies will correct injustice through healthcare, through education and other activities and will be decentralised in these areas. When we talk about workers, or if we talk, here's the first thing we're gonna do about public procurement. What's the injustice in public procurement? Here audits have been going through and going billions and billions of kunas are illegally meaning through the tenders, the acquisitions have leaked through the fingers. How many jobs are so lost how much competition and better companies have been destroyed by the Public Procurement Act? So it's certainly 100,000 jobs for the benefit of all authorities. Maybe at this point... All the authorities. [[You don't understand.]] I can explain. Here, we have an example of a company in Vrgorec that manufactures low-building pipes, not even a meter is placed, all sides are placed in the highway, building highways. Gram of iron from Split's hardware store. So, it happened, the lobbys were good, and that's a fact. And that's an injustice to our people. That direct contract under the table, but it's the funniest thing a lawyer can do. That in all the audits that come here it is exclusively in the reports, however, the situation remains unchanged. But honestly, it has to be done to preserve competition and new jobs. We are also in the EU, we are one of the EU members. What did we sign? I know everyone in the Parliament was unanimous then, both left and right, to join the EU in this way. What's signed? We'll see about that. Did we capitulate that signature or did we not time it would show? But the fact is that it's the same bank that lends credit to Austria and has 2%, and in Croatia it's 10%. They interest us. It's the interest rate over there in that country. So the voice of all of us must be heard on all matters. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] I'm sorry, I'm a little bit longer. I personally believe that we can all change things together because Croatia will be extinct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10123	Replica, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10124	Comrade, did we capitulate the signatures of either the left or the right when entering the EU? No, those signatures didn't capitulate. But did it capitulate some signatures on some contracts we'll only know about or find out about? I'm sure we'll see about that soon. I think it's very optimistic, but I like to think so, and in this you'll have all the support we have when you've had the final assessment of this 2015 report that you hope that for this next year, especially when the 2017 report is being discussed, all the injustices that have been contained will be corrected until then and to which the Advocate General points out. However, as we started, or how the ruling began, what they say, what they do, and what is being prepared for us especially in this aspect of health and education that you specifically pointed out because I think it is for one nation the most important that man is healthy, that he is employed and educated. And that's why it's especially important that you're talking about these topics. However, if an insurance collection is announced that health will be available to those who are able to pay for it and this is the lowest as well, I take it as an ambulance, it will be paid to everyone. On the other hand, and in education, we also see what happens to the curricula reform. Then where does it all go? So, not only has nothing done so far, I'm not saying that anything could have been done, but the very announcements that lead back to Croatia can imagine what it will be and how it will be further achieved on human rights and their freedoms. And in the introduction, you started it, so I will end this replica to ecladly violate the constitutional rights of the citizen and the man in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10125	Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10126	My colleague, this is 70 days of this government. I'm sure I'd want a lot more. And as for the 19 kuna collection that has now been delayed, so much has been delayed again, I will repeat, more importantly, what I have said about 70 kunas that have been so far and still been for additional insurance. You do not have the same service in Zagreb, either in Sinj, or Vrgorec. The one from Vrgorec or Sinj or from any other region in order to have a basic checkup in Split needs 200 kuna for one review a day. So that's what it's been for so long, it's been irrational. How much health care is required to talk about it. So the general picture is bad. That's why I'm calling all the least important whether it's me or you. And we have entered the EU to agree unanimously in this House and it believes that we have signed a million errors inside. You were the Minister of Justice at the time, I don't know if there was a negotiation... phase. Are you satisfied with what you've done, for example? During justice, has anything changed? Absolutely not enough to open the elevators, not enough to come as a minister to open the elevator. Our judiciary today, now that we're in power, and before that, it's disastrous. Is it going to change, but this is power for 60 days? I sincerely hope they will and that you will give support to all left and right, no matter who is in position and in opposition. And it's important to our citizens, not to talk nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10127	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Davor Penic. I beg you, Mr. Honorable Representative Penic, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10128	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Miro Bulj, I like the subject that you've highlighted from the entire D.A.'s report, which is a concern for older people. It means that those in the rural area who are socially excluded by a better organisation, i.e. the reform of local self-government, become involved. A large number of elderly people continue to live under unacceptable conditions cannot meet the basic needs of life, do not have adequate social or health care. And that kind of discrimination should be corrected by reform, a new reform. You reformers need to work on that. Usually, yesterday the most talk was about discrimination and an increase in the number of complaints on a national basis that only divides us. Let's talk about what connects us. It's the worst thing to be old, sick and in the middle of nowhere, and you don't have any public service in your hand. We need to discuss these topics. Then, we have a lot of complaints from the defense attorneys on their rights. That indicates the system isn't working. It's not suitable for real needs, and there's a chance you can make a move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10129	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10130	My colleague Penić is from my neighborhood, so we understand each other well and we know all the matter of what we're talking about in the mountains and mountains around the Cetina area is exactly like that. The young have gone away, the old have remained unprotected, socially endangered, without food, and I would only thank this occasion to many organizations and volunteers who really help these people on the ground. So there are many organizations in my city that give their time to help. However, the system needs to be changed and the system needs to help these people. So we got caught up with the supplemental insurance now which is not good to collect, of course... it would be better if HRT lowers its subscription. And of course we need to work on these socially endangered groups and that's the key problem. Because that grandmother of ours who can't... to Split from... or she has to give 100 kunas at least spend transportation, lunch, so it's no longer 19 kuna but 119 and no receiving at all. I think that's the basic problem of that reorganisation that we all should be working on and primarily the executive power. I absolutely agree with you on all the issues, and the defenders and everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10131	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10132	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, I think that nothing so much in Croatian society is disproportionate as the story of the protection of human rights and practices in human rights violations. So many stories, not exactly stories, because they never talk about human rights, and not today, they talk about human rights, and that's a big difference. And respect for human rights. And you mentioned in this context workers, which is a special example of human rights violations, even violation of constitutional law, the law violates constitutional law. The constitutionally right article around the 60th says that each employee has the right to compensation worthy, that he and his family can live with the lives of decent men. And then we have a minimum wage law, which is a minimum salary of 2700 kuna, and can a person with 2700 kuna live a decent life, a worthy man? Is there any member of the EU from Croatia to the west that has so many laws a minimum salary of 2700 kuna? There isn't. And only those who worked did you mention one company seems to me to Željezar Split as it is similar to the Adriatic stone, Kamensko and other such companies where they did not receive the salary for years, but they did not receive health care, nor contribute to pension payments. Where's that in the miss? 10 years has not been paid to the workers of the hardware store to contribute to pension insurance, and not to those others they have established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10133	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10134	Unfortunately, everything you said was right. We are a member of the EU, absolutely the worst that is in Croatia, what is good is not in Croatia, and some of the good things that were once in the former state we rejected, we took bad things, it is a disaster. And there are responsible political elites in these 25 years. At this point, I have taken responsibility before, since I entered Parliament here and all of us sitting here. In order for things to change, we need to look the truth in the eye. Have we entered the European Union? Did we vote when we joined the EU? Was it pressure in the EU to be servants of foreign masters or to be free in our own country, to have, to protect national interests? In fact, when we look at these workers, when we look at the highway when it was being built, the gram of iron from the Split Ironworks is not, with 5 million euros I don't think it's, I can't now about the numbers, that road has jumped to 14 million per km, now I don't know what period and the gram of the Croatian tube is not put in, not a gram of iron on the highway. And now they're our workers, where? It's all over the containers. Well, we have more union presidents today than employees. It's the workers, the employees, the workers, we can call whatever we want. The worker is the old word Croatian. So imagine what the state is led to when we have more union presidents in negotiations than workers in the Republic of Croatia. It's absurd, we're an absurdist state. And about banks, interest rates, and in the Croatian Parliament, there is a foreign bank, the Business Bank of Zagreb in foreign ownership, I speak openly to the microphone. Do we have any ownership of the Croatian bank? You can check freely, all MPs, that in the House where we decide which people we were elected by is a foreign bank owned by foreign governments. So much for our sovereignty. And I agree with you completely, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10135	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative Gordan Mars. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10136	Mr. Bulj, in your debate, you spoke of jobs and you said that our workers had no opportunity to install a kilo of iron or pipe into our highways and in projects that were happening in the Republic of Croatia. What I think is true, unfortunately we have very large lobbyist groups which, for example, are not in the interest of our pipe factories that are now in Croatia and there are several that are very successful, but which mostly produce plastic pipes to position themselves in Croatian waters and that doesn't matter... with political elites. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's been so rooted for decades that it has nothing to do with the parties. And here's because you have ambition and desire to help, a lot of things we've done, too. Sit down with the Minister of Agriculture, he is the President of the Governing Council of Water and you see why, in my personal court, it is often unnecessary to take products that Croatian companies do not produce but are imported. And let's see what it is today and how long it will be after our minister's term of office. Don't have illusions you know as a superman who solves everything in two minutes. That's not possible. I would really like to say, here from this pay phone I say that in Croatia most of the plastic pipes are built into these projects because our producers are competitive there and they have no matter what we are on the European market they are competitive and can work but they continue to force iron. And on the other hand, here, sit down with Minister Romic and let's see how many days it is and how long it's going to be in two or three years or three when we're already doing some Benchmark.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10138	Excuse me, as far as this bank is concerned down there, I guarantee she's doing the loss. So this business is a clean cost down at the bank that put it here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10139	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10140	Our colleague Maras when we talk about iron and Croatian ironworks, Split, which was then hung by survival... The fact that iron was imported. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that the ministers you check me, down that have imported whether they were one political option or another, there is mostly no big difference that is to calculate it on paper and throw it both during you and during anyone. The iron was mostly imported. I agree with you about Croatian Waters, Croatian Forests that you need to protect interests and who knows how it works because it is impossible and it is unimaginable for me that a liter of water in the store today is more expensive than a liter of gasoline and our water leaks through our fingers. I can't believe we can't have it as a product of Cetina's sources, sources that are, that we can't do it on some. Or someone put us on a leash, you can't do that. Is this signed perhaps before the accession, entry into the European Union? I don't really know, I'm not competent. Those who voted then, both should check it out. So look at the teleopers doing to us with base stations, whatever they want and whatever they want, they can't do it in Germany, Sweden, Austria, where they come from. They just, it's unthinkable that they don't pay or swear, they don't need any license for the base station. And we're not going to talk about privatising our infrastructure, the teleinfrastructure which, as it were, started HDZ and ended the SDP and here vice versa in INA, started SDP and HDZ ended. So if we were to come back to who's where it started, it doesn't matter, that's where people matter. Good will is important, and it's important to work things out. But the fact is that with our audit that you've been listening to for years before... that in public procurement, it's absolutely convenient and absolutely competitive, which is why we have a smaller and smaller number of jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People are running out on us because of it and it's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10141	Thank you. The next is the debated representative of Ladislav Ilcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. According to the Attorney General's Law, the attorney general should be promoted and protected by human rights and freedoms. Unfortunately, the concept of human rights and the concept of combating discrimination can be misused or manipulated. Why and how? The human race is based on values. Every human society, the state is based on values. For example, the Croatian state would not have been if it had not been for the love of the State against defenders who went and defended Croatia. Equally, the human race wouldn't reproduce if it didn't have love for a woman, love for a husband, love for children. So simple values are what the human race is based on. Today we live in a plural society where people value different values, we have people who have one group of values, which are important to them, in life some people have other groups of values, some people have no value, what are we going to do with these people? We can't chase them or we don't want them. Every man has the right to live. But what happens now? Now it happens that those who have no value or any other value, when this first group promotes some values then these others say no, you discriminate us by promoting these values, and thus we come that the values must not be promoted anymore because the promotion of these certain values can always discriminate against someone else. So we come to the fact that in the fight against discrimination, demands that there should be no such thing as crosses on walls because it bothers someone. They don't mind when someone puts a picture of their dog on the wall. That doesn't bother them. But when someone puts a cross on the wall, it bothers them, it's discrimination. We know about swearing, so when someone curses someone, most often in these swearings or curses as they're already said, I don't know a mother, God, meaning something most valuable, I guess in some psychological nature of a man when he wants something evil to offend what's most important to that other man. We have cases, for example, even though I don't like to talk about homosexuality, but I will mention that when we spoke positively about marriage, they publicly told homosexual associations that what we're talking about is marriage, that it's not to be said that it's an outdated institution. A few years after that, they sought the right to marry, so I ask myself a question, which will give them the right to marry if they consider it an outdated institution. Who attacks people who promote national values? The ones who don't like it again. What cameras are looking for, say, at Thompson's concert or at Bleiburg, people with Ustasha hats. You'd be very lucky to find at least one to record her putting it first, just the ones who want to hide or put those values in Thompson's songs that are positive. So these are just some examples where the so-called fight against discrimination is used for moral relativism, for promoting moral relativism. We have countries today Europeans that no longer write mother and father on forms, but parent one and parent two. Well, I think that's exactly the fatherly relationship, the motherly relationship is worth it. I don't want my kids calling me parent one or parent two. I want to stay a dad, not a parent one or a parent two. So these are all examples in which, as I said, the fight for discrimination is used for the wrong purposes. Today in Croatia, in fact, in this debate I will say specifically, perhaps Mr. Pecnik most clearly defined the war of the Ombudsman when he said that it is necessary to protect the rights of those religious communities that are minorities or when you become Catholics and when you become a minority then we will protect your religious freedoms and rights. That's exactly what I'm talking about. That when a fight against discrimination is used against the promotion of values often enjoyed by majority people such as national values, such as Christian values in the Croatian people, it is no longer good. And today, in fact, when we vote on this report, then we actually vote for what kind of fight for human rights we stand for? For the kind in which the rights of all men and the majority people or only the minority are protected. That's what this is all about. I don't find the part of the lawyer's work in which she really protects the oppressed and fights for their rights but I am deeply disturbed and concerned by the part where she doesn't care and protects the rights and freedoms of the majority in the Croatian people. I think we need to change that trend, that we need to have defenders who will protect the rights of all people, who will protect the freedoms of all people. Yesterday I cited three or four examples in which it was not the case. In which we've ecldently had a violation and neglect of other people's rights. In particular, there was an example of Željka Markic, so when Mrs. Sandra Bencic said she was concerned that Željka Markić was welcome at Prisavlje on HRT and then asked with the legal team for the defense attorney's testimony, so the attorney said that there was a need for Željka Markic to learn how to criticise her, right? So, when someone represents you with some kind of majority opinion, then I don't know how to learn to be criticized by others. If I said that someone, I have no idea from some minority, don't catch me now if I'm going to say national and sexual minorities shouldn't be visiting the Prisavlje, so all the media would crucify me if I were xenophobic and I don't know what not and I'd also do that and I'm a protégé. That's what I'm talking about. I ask only for equality, I seek equality in conduct. I demand that human rights be human rights for everyone and not just for minorities, and therefore this report is unacceptable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10143	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10144	Your entire debate, therefore, may not have been so said by you, but it is almost explicit, that in Croatia most of them are threatened by minorities. And then you create, so it's a very dangerous thesis. So, because you need what then? To go to the defense, because the threat is most of the minorities. I think it's turning things around and not understanding the position of minorities at all, and not most of them. You know, these are dangerous things you're talking about, you know, very dangerous. Whether you're aware of it or not, I believe you're not even aware of it. When you talk about national values and you talk about Thomson to me. And I'll mention the Constitution one more time. I read it to you yesterday, the day before yesterday, and I'll read it to you again. It is ours, it is the foundation of Croatian patriotism and Croatian state. You don’t need it, if you’re 70 or I don’t know 130 and 152, three articles I’ll read to you, enough to read and learn only Article 3. That freedom, that equality, is national equality and gender equality, peace, social justice, respect for human rights, rule of law, democratic multilateral system, these are the highest values on which the Croatian state is based. That the Croatian state you said correctly was defended on the basis of the Homeland War, but you forgot the original provisions. It's your duty to respect it, your duty. You can agree with that or not, but here you are obliged while you are in Croatia, in fact every citizen is obliged to respect and adhere to the Constitution and the law especially to my representatives. So, as for some of the values you're on the other day, but this continues on this story of yours, today you didn't explicitly say where you're "for a home ready" equal to the greeting "death of fascism freedom to the people". Read source bases That the Croatian state was created precisely on the basis of the earthly, decision of the Earth Anti-fascist Council of People's Liberation against the Independent State of Croatia. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] That's what you need to fall in love with, my dears.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10145	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10146	So when I was talking about majority rights and minority rights, I think I made myself clear. So I haven't even compared whose rights are dominant, whose rights are more or less compromised. And I don't doubt that the rights of some minorities in some cases are at risk. But I just said that we should act equally and that this way of interpreting human rights as we are now witnessing is not good because they ignore the rights of the majority. So it turns out that most rights don't have, like rights, the values of most in no way can be compromised and should never be protected or promoted. And I just gave you examples of what was happening. So I repeat equal treatment towards everyone. Secondly, as far as I'm concerned, you've been quoting the Constitution for a long time, and I agree with you, and those values should certainly be promoted. But I didn't see exactly where in my speech at least this was wrong with the Constitution, or do you think something's wrong except that I said that she was a lawyer, which I said yesterday, that I said that the lawyer said a lot about saying hello "for home ready" that caused bad things, and didn't say anything about your greeting "death in fascism of freedom to the people". I said, look, I'm not getting into that cry right now. We can also say that if we talk about the meaning of saying that “for a home ready ” that someone is willing to do something for home, we can do the same positive. But the fact that it was under that denunciation was committed and some crimes were committed. Just as under the premise "for a home ready" some crimes have been committed, so also under the premise "death of fascism, freedom of the people" really large numbers of people in Croatia and during World War II and after that many crimes have been committed and it is not right. And it's not right for you to be saying such recommendations, like, just like you're asking people to. That they do not say “for a home ready”; so refrain from saying this, neither do you. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] Why argue with the Croatian people?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10147	Thank you. Dear Representative, replicated representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10148	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Ladislava, instead of talking about the report, you're talking about the concept of morality and saying that everything is relativized, and you're relativizing the matter. The system of values should be a system of positive regulations, and morals, a set of norms, rules that are generally accepted, are not prescribed. For morality there is a consensus on conduct unlike these positive regulations which are controlled by the attorney general. So in this report on the work of the attorney general, it was observed that there was one marked discrimination both by genealogy and gender and that there should be a general social consensus on these issues to overcome them. And you are now complaining that the lawyer warned Mrs Markic. It's a totally missed topic for this discussion. So, you started talking about morality, and you went a little bit into legal regulations, so you went back to morality. You're relativizing things. I do not want to argue with you as Ingrid argues "for a home ready" or "death of fascism". I don't live in the past, I live in the future, and I want to know what will happen in the next period in which my children and I will live. And I've had enough of those returns in '41. and '91. It's past time, let's go ahead, let's solve problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10149	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10150	Okay, I listened very carefully. I didn't understand exactly what I relativized it to or morale. You said what morality was. I personally believe that parts of morality must be written in regulations, and they are. So you have in the education system of a certain value, you have in the Constitution certain values definitely moral categories that are recorded on which values you rest. So I don't understand why I'm relativizing it. For example, one was Željka Markic, the other yesterday I gave a letter to the UN Attorney General, I set an example of a referendum on marriage, I mean three or four examples I gave yesterday to show that the attorney general did not protect the values of the majority. So it wasn't any relativation, it was a double standard. So when someone who promotes Christian values when they say you're not welcome or you shouldn't be on HRT, then that's okay, let that person get by. And if I said I told some minority member you shouldn't speak on HRT then you'd be a haranga against me. You understand? I was just talking about those double criteria. This, I see he likes to score back into the past, etc. You see, I haven't exactly been in any kind of a fight in three months, especially on these issues. I just mentioned it because I saw an eclectic example here and I don't intend to get into it anymore. So I really think that you and I should all condemn all totalitarian regimes and hope that when it is done and when experts, not us but experts investigate all crimes and define some kind of historical truth that then we will end up with that story and that history will indeed be the teacher of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10151	Thank you. The esteemed Replicator has reached Gordana Sobol, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Ilčić is a human right to an individual, so human rights are the rights of every citizen, citizen of every individual and individual in any society, we are talking about Croatia now. We cannot talk about the human rights of the majority and the human rights of the minority. And you said it was because like us, or someone wants us to ensure human rights to minorities that human rights are threatened by the majority. I think somewhere I think you've messed up the pots. The democracy of every society, democracy and the majority in some respect whether it is because of nationality, because of this or because of it it is apparent how much society we ensure that all others who do not belong to that majority, but also because of some of their belongings to some sexual group, religious group, national group, so as much as we and they do in the same way basic human rights that are equal whether they are Croat, Hungarian, homosexual, transgender person or person with disabilities. So that's what human rights is all about. And in that sense, I also think that it is the attorney general who in this way is also promoting in the Croatian society the need to achieve every kind of human right of every individual and individual regardless of whether it belongs to the majority, minority or not. And really I would really say out of my mind that by, for example, allowing homosexual couples for example. They're creating a life partnership that puts most people's human rights at risk. We have put their rights at risk because we still do not allow them to adopt children, for example, and because you have managed to reverse in Croatia the provisions of the Constitution and the Family Law and a series of other laws because you have provided only most of them with the right to marriage. You've actually humiliated the human rights of one part of the citizens and the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10153	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10154	Dear Mrs. Sobol in that part of the regular of the two minutes you've spoken, I could say in everything I agree with you. So I agree that human rights should be available to every man. And what I resent, which I think I've made quite clear is that the attorney general didn't protect the rights and the part that's in most of it. Assuming that if someone is in the majority that they're the boss and they're doing what they want, and they're not. So human rights can also be compromised by people who fall into the majority in any sense. That's the first thing. Another thing, in that extra bonus you were saying, I absolutely disagree with you. As I said yesterday in the replica we have arranged society, except for individual rights we also know the rights of certain institutions. So an institution as an institution must have some rights. Yesterday I cited an example of the Music Academy that has the right to say when someone has no hearing don't come because I'll tell you first if you have one person in the orchestra without hearing playing the fake orchestra will sound bad. You understand? So the system is going down. You've got one pilot who can't see well, he can crash a plane. So institutions have to have some rights in their own right. Similarly, institutions that protect certain skills such as aircraft management and institutions that base certain human relations like marriage. And when we degrade an institution regardless of just because someone who would otherwise not be able to access that institution then we also degrade the entire system of values that makes up a society. And to just quote the European Court of Human Rights... against Austria where the European Court of Human Rights has said that homosexuals have the same rights as heterosexuals. [[You don't understand.]] A homosexual can marry a woman as well as a heterosexual, a homosexual woman and a heterosexual woman can marry only men. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10155	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Please, colleagues and colleagues, we don't have much yet to hear from a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10156	My dear colleague, you twist the facts, replace the thesis, and then build on it your seemingly logical structure. That's interestingly sophistical but incorrect. So you're saying that someone against pointing out crosses even though the cross is a symbol of Christian value. No one's a colleague. If someone's against pointing out crosses, then they're against pointing out the cross as a religious symbol in state institutions that's secular. And the cross can be pointed out in all religious objects and in private objects because it is the right of every man. So you swapped one thesis there and then built that seemingly logical structure of yours. You're saying that "To Home Ready" and "Death Fascism Freedom to the People" are equal and equally unacceptable, but they're not because "For Home Ready" is one symbol, symbol, I'm not talking about meaning, one symbol of Ustivity and Fascism. And "Death to Fascism Freedom to the People" is a symbol of fighting that fascism. One is a symbol of evil, the other a symbol of fighting evil. There can be no sign of equality between them. If you put a sign of equality between them, then you relativize what they told you, then you advocate that fascism and oppose anti-fascism because you claim they are the same. That's the thing, I know that you know that's exactly what I'm saying, but you're trying to twist it with one sofism. The right of the minority and the right of the majority. Look, most of them are protected by the fact that most of them are. The minority can't protect itself. Why? Because it's a minority. Minority, minority rights can only be protected by the majority, and that's the job and the attorney general's office, and that's what she's talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10157	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10158	First of all, I took this start as a compliment that at least it seems to seem logical, let's move forward. Speaking of twisting thesis, I'll say, of course I was thinking about putting crosses in public space because neither you nor anyone else would mind putting crosses in private spaces. So that's all I'm talking about. You probably know about the Lauci case against Italy at the European Court of Human Rights where the European Court of Human Rights, therefore the first body to interpret human rights, said even in the world it is clear that atheism is not an official worldview, and everything else private as you interpret it in my opinion in your change of thesis. At least that's what I think. So, rather than a plural society lives on more parallel worlds that live together and it has stopped, the European Court of Human Rights said that Italy has the right to put a cross in public spaces and no other country has since tried to dispute that. I hope your colleague doesn't laugh like he did a minute ago, now he's reading the laptop, making fun of the last European Court of Human Rights ruling I quoted four minutes ago. And as for Home Ready, I really didn't say, look at the phonogram that I think it's the same, and I don't need to even and compare, etc. I'm just saying that even under this appeal that you and Mrs. Ingrid said that, under that appeal, a lot of people died both in the war and afterwards and that it hurt them and that we shouldn't argue with the Croatian people. And that this is the same example in which the majority of you automatically feel that they have all the rights may feel discriminated against to use your words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10159	Thank you. Please, the time of the debate and the replica has ended. I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues and colleagues to listen to the final report of Honorable Ombudsman Laura Vidovic. If we're talking about rights, then we're giving the attorney general the right to say something in the House without disturbing her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10160	I suppose today might be a little more attention today than yesterday after the vote is over. As every year, this was also a very interesting debate which, of course, went much wider than the report but in this short, I hope to limit myself to those parts relating to the report in 2015. I will not enter either in 2014, or in 2016, or in the jurisdiction of the Special Advocates. I am not a lawyer for children, I also do not follow the question of gender equality, nor the right person with disabilities, although I work very well with the attorneys. In particular, I would like to begin by thanking all the MPs and MPs on the proposals and on constructive criticism. I'm the first to say that the report can certainly be much better and much of these things you pointed out will certainly be considered for next year. I especially thank all of you who have read the integral text of the report before taking part in the debate, I think it is very good, important and useful and especially to all of you who have recognised the effort that has been put into its work, and therefore I would like to take immediate advantage of the opportunity and thank you to all colleagues and colleagues in the Office of the Attorney General from colleagues and colleagues in administrative affairs, to all counselors, counselors and deputies and deputies who have helped not only for two days listening to this debate and commenting, giving me information on some of the questions you have asked but also throughout the year. I think it's an extremely big effort to be recognized. I think it's important to start by saying a few words about the legal frameworks. The Attorney General under the Law on the Ombudsman, oversees the bodies of public authorities listed in that broad sense in the Law on the Ombudsman, only in discriminatory powers under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination in relation to the private sector. By the way, I will immediately say that this partially answers your question why there is no longer an emphasis on working relations in the economy and crafts, traditionally it is not the Ombudsman's jurisdiction until 2014 and in fact I would say until last year. We did not have the capacity to work working relationships in the economy and crafts because it is not a classical Ombudsman jurisdiction. As of last year, we will be following this much more strongly, i.e. it is already stronger in this report than in the previous ones, and it will be much more in the future. So what are our powers is to give opinions, suggestions, recommendations and warnings. The Attorney General is not in my sincere opinion, nor should he be a body with executive powers, not at all have executive powers. Executive powers have the Government, have executive bodies at local levels. The Ombudsman is here and so is the whole of Europe to direct public authorities in finding better system solutions through opinions, proposals, recommendations, warnings in individual cases and through the most important tool through reports that we submit once a year to the Croatian Assembly. So it's up to me to tell, to follow, to point, to suggest. In fact, it is up to the government to propose solutions to what I, as a public defender, see. It's up to the Parliament to pass good laws, then it's up to the government to enforce those laws. The report is just one tool, the most important tool with which I have a once-a-year opportunity to draw attention to those problems that have been observed. Just one more sentence I'd like to repeat on the methodology for making the report concerns data collection. Among the 362 bodies that we asked for data to be delivered are representatives of religious communities, both the majority and numerous minority communities that had the opportunity and many of them responded and provided information that they considered important to the extent that we could, we included them in the report. If we wrote about every memo and every item, the report would have 5,000 pages and no one would read it. As far as public reactions are concerned, my public reactions that we talked about yesterday, the fact that we don't come forward in individual cases is not random and that doesn't mean, of course, that if you haven't read about something in the paper about it, that's why my office hasn't handled it. Of course it's not just what the media is writing about. That's how I'm gonna keep going. One reason is that in individual cases we are concerned about protecting the privacy of the complainants and that protection of privacy was here, and I would draw attention to this and in particular to the fact that there is an institution called the Personal Data Protection Agency, which can then be used in this context by citizens for assistance. When it comes to some public phenomena or events in a society that may not be related to a particular individual, there is no danger of private exposure, I believe that the power of this institution is precisely in that it acts institutionally and on the basis of the right. Being constantly in the media is not a sign, measure and quality assessment. And he certainly doesn't say anything or say very little about all the content that we in the office do and study. I don't, and I don't need to have the role of social censor and it seemed to me yesterday that in more exposure I heard why she didn't react, why she didn't get involved, why she didn't do this or that. My role is to carry out a quality legal analysis and assess whether it is in some situation especially when it is socially controversial whether human rights or principles of equality are compromised. My primary role is not to talk about it for the media over and over again. And this is closely linked to the activities of the office at the time of the political elections, i.e. the pre-election and campaign that I spoke about yesterday and wrote about in the report. And here what I think you all know very well is that I am not involved in a political game, that I am not involved and that I am not in the role of being involved in a political debate at the time of the elections and that I am not and should not be a political arbitrationist in the election campaign. My role in this regard is played by the State Election Commission and the Constitutional Court and I, of course, leave it to them. My role is to tell you about it in the annual report that I did. In addition to political expression, whether it is a pre-election campaign or another situation, it is certain that it has a central place in a democratic society and that there is a practice of the European Court of Human Rights. I can only repeat that you politicians, as well as public figures, whether these are people from the cultural, artistic or activist world, are expected to have much greater tolerance in a harsh, public, critical, satirical and even offensive review of political attitudes, i.e. valuable courts and social action, and that of course you have a responsibility for the spoken public word. Today was much more than yesterday, and I'm very pleased to hear about the economic and social rights that really apply to all of our citizens. Here are some more information that the treatment of severely ill patients in Croatia depends on the condition of the hospital in which they are being treated. Many of you have also talked about the situation in rural areas and how residents do not have access to public services and how the roads are impenetrable. Last year, 12,000 defenders filed a request for housing. I read in the paper that I don't care about the rights of the defender in a sentence that's just been transferred from the report. You also mentioned some of the specific problems that you might briefly address, the issue of water supply in Voćin is the process we are conducting. Mr. Leco has proposed closer cooperation with the labour inspectorate. We quickly went through the cases and found that on average one item a week was sent to the Inspectorate to work on competent treatment. As far as the educational inspection is concerned, they're not enough and they're not capacitated. Therefore, in any case, an educational inspection should be strengthened and collective accommodation in the village of Dumac, according to the information provided by the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, the procedures for issuing useful permits have been extended and therefore the closure of the facility with the largest number of users of the pro-region settlement of Mala Gorica has been delayed. We wrote about this problem in both last year's report and this year's, and we will certainly continue to deal with this issue as well as visit those sites. You might have noticed that this year we had a dramatically large number of tours compared to last year. That increase was 227%. As far as rural areas are concerned, just because we recognize the problems that have been discussed here today at local level, that is one of the priorities in our work this year and next. He probably won't even stop at that. We started mapping counties in collaboration with the county community. It is a very serious bite, and we hope to tour all the counties in the next two years and make an analysis that will be relevant and important in making any decisions that will concern the reform of the local administration precisely in relation to the most vulnerable groups whether it is social exclusion or other, members of other minorities. I read today in the news that there is no mention of denationalisation anywhere in the report, and then I call on you to read page 127 of the report on this particular problem. And unfortunately, there was no debate at all about the situation in the prison system and the work of the national preventive mechanism. It seems like it's not really about refugees either, so it's not obviously in the interest of MPs. A lot of attention was actually expected to be focused on minority rights and mainly ethnic discrimination. A lot was said yesterday and today. I would, in short, really and quite simply limit myself to the conclusion that human rights are naturally guaranteed to everyone regardless of ethnic or religious belonging, property, age, sex, political credentials, other circumstances that are all recorded in the Constitution. Discrimination is when someone treats you worse than others in a comparable situation because of some of the specific characteristics. Most people who have power, most of them define social standards, most of them determine socially accepted values, have easier access to the media, most of them have easier access to other social goods, and that is why minorities need to create conditions for them to have access to social goods as well as members of the majority, and that is why minority rights should not be seen as a threat to the rights of the majority. In my opinion, that's the point. Of course, it is possible to be discriminated against as a member of the majority in relation to the basics and areas of the Republic of Croatia as defined in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. If there is discrimination on any of the protected grounds in any of the prescribed areas, it is estimated from case to case, given the court's scratch of domestic courts, the European Court of Human Rights, as Mr Nemcic said, the Luxembourg court equally. In relation to the relationship or assessment of the interrelationship between freedom of speech and discriminatory speech, it is a very, very thin line and it is not and should not be a subjective assessment. That was also one of the questions on which we estimate what freedom of speech is, which is not. This is a matter of legal determination and, ultimately, the practice of domestic courts, the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice in Luxembourg of the standards of the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the EU. It is, of course, the court that decides whether it is something of hate speech, whether it is something protected by freedom of speech or not. As for the individual injuries that you have mentioned today especially in situations where the attorney general has not handled anything, I ask you nicely not only to pass me complaints about how you get them during the year and not just at the plenary session when the cameras are recording it because we are really initiating the examination procedures for them if we consider that there is any reasonableness or that they are in office jurisdiction. Please instruct the citizens to speak to us. We're very reluctant to open objects based on individual injuries based on media inscriptions and I'll tell you why. One is that, of course, media inscriptions are not always very reliable and we do not always necessarily have the right information about the kind of injury that is actually being done. The other thing is that it is very difficult for us not to be able to communicate with that person because she did not speak to us but to hurt us through the media. The third thing is that when it comes to age-old business-skilled citizens, we have to assume that this person wants to be treated by the Attorney General's Office in order to address it. We can't get the wrong way, and I'm saying this because we've had situations where it just happened, and these situations can have serious side effects when there's really a question of serious responsibility that I think should be avoided. So I ask you that whenever you have any knowledge or citizens address you to instruct them to actually file a complaint with us, or to file a complaint. Here are the people who talk to us often by e-mail. Moreover, if we were to act on all the media publications that seemed to us that it might be the basis of nothing else we could actually do but read the newspaper and open the proceedings. And in that case, those citizens who don't have access to the media would be greatly denied. This also raises the number of complaints, is it good to have them more or less? I think it's good to have as many complaints as possible. My goal is to have more complaints, to do more. This does not mean that human rights violations are more, although they probably do, but it does say that people are talking to us more, that we know much more especially about discrimination in which not only in Croatia but across Europe there is a major problem with insufficient reporting for a number of reasons that we also write a lot about in the report. A few MPs invited me not to say and called for not protecting the human rights of the MPs. Well, then I would say that, of course, MPs in the Croatian Parliament as well as all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia, when they feel that they have been violated by constitutional or legal rights can appeal to the attorney general in terms of public protection. So, not this process that we're going to determine if there's really been a violation of the law before some public legal authority, and I don't think that's what the MPs were up to. So, in terms of public protection, I would say that you, apart from having immunity that you were already talking about today, have access to the media and access to information and means that you can really well address an executive who can help your rights. So I will, in the absence of complaints that you, as advocates, continue to focus on the rights in rural areas or in the context of health, education and other topics of denationalisation. Many of the complaints over which we open the examination procedures, that is, many of the complaints of the submissions we receive, we really end up with general legal information. One MP asked this question in terms of whether we should do it, if it does not take too much capacity. My opposition to that is and who's going to do it if we're not that institution? People don't know who to ask for the protection of some of their rights. They don't know who to turn to. They really don't have any information. They think that we can give them free legal aid which, of course, we can't, apart from the constitutional obligation, it's also about the elemental decency that when someone sends a memo, a submission or a complaint to answer that question. If we answer already, then we can also write down who needs to be specifically addressed if it isn't us. I'll just say that as far as free legal aid is concerned last year, in the six offices of the state administration, not a single request for providing primary free legal assistance shows more than anything that it is actually inaccessible to citizens, that it is not used, that it is a system that is not functional and that, in any case, citizens depend on legal orientation and general legal information that is not within the legal consultation and free legal assistance system. So, on the basis of all these complaints, we are trying to see what these are general phenomena, which are general problems in the system of protecting human rights and suppressing discrimination, and then together with all the data that we get from these 362 addresses to which we have sent applications in order to make the report really anything more comprehensive, more objective, more comprehensive. It's up to me to warn you of what's been spotted. It is up to you to achieve these changes in cooperation, of course, with all other stakeholders. What I did not warn you about on these 200 pages, and you noticed certainly I invite you to also within the framework of other institutional mechanisms that you have at your disposal as parliamentary representatives to influence. And finally, every year I hear that every year I file the same report, and I feel like every year when I speak, I have to say the same things again about what powers are, which are competences, which is the name of the institution. Since I'm not one of the special attorneys, the attorney general is still not the same every year. It's not the same as really collecting all the information we're getting new topics, we're getting new emphasis. We have really many new topics this year compared to last year's report if you look at it. The extent to which the same report is concerned, that it is, in fact, structural problems that cannot be solved from year to year. It's hard for one of the chapters that's in this year to be back in the next, because these are social changes that are extremely slow and I'm sorry to say often and too slow. And here, hopefully this year we'll be more successful at it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10161	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Ladislav Ilčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10162	Just for a little while. I mean, just one thing. When you said that the representatives of the majority have easier and greater and better access to the media than the representatives of the minority. Here are two examples. During the debate on health education in the "Grossd" programme, I think it was likely that everyone was getting nervous and sick of it. Since that debate, the same to me personally, but 20,000 people have given support to the Grozd programme and the coalition that has gathered against the programme has collected signatures as a petition of 246 people. They had an incomparably larger media space than we did. I've personally been on a few shows that I was alone. There were three or four who fought against. During the marriage referendum, those who were against marriage referendums I think about 80 or 90% of the total media space, you have the exact calculations, people have given themselves a hard time and calculated the exact minutes and by taking it all figured out. However, there were twice as many who voted in favour of marriage as the community of women and men. Here, I just wanted to point out that that information that most people would have had better access to the media is actually I would say very, very incorrect or at least so far it has been incorrect and I hope that from now on, everyone will have the same right to access the media. But here for the end, I'm just glad that you've realized that most of them can be discriminated against or that their rights may be compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10163	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10164	I am pleased that you have pointed out that you are going to focus on undeveloped areas, according to people who are unprotected in these areas where the older population is mostly. And I hope you get the result. Personally, as far as my area is concerned, you have support and certainly local communities from that area. However, you said it should work together with the county community, that in cooperation with the county community you will cooperate. Otherwise, the counties can tell you and are the problem of my here Split-Dalmatia which have a relationship with this particular area that I am talking about, is just an example of the Split-Dalmatia County, which is why it is necessary to abolish or in some other way organise that 50% of the population lives outside the coast or developed area and... this way with the election of parliamentary local or county or in the days of Alka and the Great Lady when they come, does it mean if necessary. [[You don't understand.]] It's just... Listen to these people in the field of these specials. [[You don't understand.]] The same thing as the state government has centralized everything so the counties have centralized everything, both health care, education, mainly in the rich areas of the city's centre. Pay attention to that. ... that it is just an example of a relationship with the Cetina province that has 50,000 inhabitants more than Lika is a relationship between the Split-Dalmatia County an example so that county and mayors should not work. [[You don't understand.]] So pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10165	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10166	Madam Attorney General, I'm not asking you to answer this line for me, and I think you're smart and you've done something that you haven't responded to in many replicas. But I'm going to say this for the public. It is perfect for you, for all of us here and for those who attacked you precisely because during your term you have stayed at the height of your professional and human task and we here in the Parliament all of us who are openhearted and human rights defenders and most and minorities should be proud. But those are the ones who resent you. Why? Because you're doing your job right now and a lot of people aren't calming down, and you can't say that. And they're propagating very dangerous weights all the time. That Croatia is threatened, that most are threatened. From who? Who is Croatia threatened by? I'm a member of the majority and I'm not threatened by the minority, and maybe part of that majority and yes. Because that's dangerous stuff. Because with such things and propagating but it's all so gentle, you know, treasure, it's not us, we're just protecting, we're not attacking anyone. That was seen in the marriage referendum, and then they were exposed when we jumped in and legalized the same-sex communities. And then the attack started. And we're not, we're not against gays, we're not against same sex, we're just asking that marriage be defined as a community of men and women. So what was he, by law, more than just that? However, here is the beginning of some god-awful protective ideas and the consequences knowingly or unconsciously can be very dangerous for the individual, per community, I will say for most and a half minorities, briefly in Croatia. Very, very dangerous things. And another thing, those who, therefore, continue to be obsessed with those who have a different sexual orientation, I really think that these people are deeply, deeply unhappy in their marriages when they're obsessed with organizing other people's lives and families.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10167	Thank you. This concludes the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue the session at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda Final draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. Session interrupted at 16.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10168	We will now approach the vote, we have only one item, and that is the 2015 Ombudsman's report. The applicant of the report is the Ombudsman's mother-in-law. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report by the Advocate General for 2015 is hereby adopted. Please vote. Who's in favour of that conclusion? We have... Here you go, I see some raise hands. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10169	It's unheard of to drop the attorney general's report. It's unheard of to drop the attorney general's report. I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10170	Excuse me. I'm asking you first to shut up. Another colleague, Radin, cannot voice your opinion in the middle of a vote whether something is famous or unheard of. Therefore, the vote...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10171	I'm not in the middle of a vote, but after the vote, I'm sorry. I'm looking for a break. ... According to the Rules of Procedure, where does it say I can't ask for a break now? [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Tell me, where does it say?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10172	The vote is over. So of the 116 present, 63 were against it. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10173	If you don't take a break, on your conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10174	So, I find that most of the votes have not accepted the Attorney General's report as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. So since you've been gone a long time, here's a fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10175	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have for the same reason raised the hand of my colleague Radin. So on behalf of the SDSS and Reformers Club, I felt and felt that after this outcome of the vote on the Ombudsman's report, the Parliament must take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10176	Please, colleagues, calm down. Guys, let's calm down, please. A fellow bud, he'd be...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10177	We had a situation recently that you allowed a break in the middle of a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10178	I'm allowed in the middle of a debate break?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10179	The chairman, whether you or you, but the chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-18-0.u10180	No, no, sorry, I didn't let you safely in the middle of a debate break, now no debate at all. We had a vote, the vote was over. If we had put in practice, which I have already said, on one occasion, that anyone who is not satisfied with something spoken here in the hall for any reason or voted here in the hall for any reason justified or unwarranted every time we would have taken a break from this House, we would have done what I think none of us would want. So we had business opportunities during the debate to discuss certain points and they all probably took advantage of it. Two days of that report being discussed. So doing something beyond that would be really inappropriate. So, I'd just like to say at the end of the day, since you guys weren't here much, that next week because we're not going to be working on Wednesday and Friday, we're going to start working to make up for that next week of Monday. There will be a session first and then we will work both Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday. Since there will therefore be a May 30th solemn session, I would draw your attention, I would ask you to clean the benches, not to leave the papers on the benches, but to keep them, the papers we need either to carry with us or to put below without them. We will therefore continue to work on the agenda and this will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 64. 31.05. he'll be first in line. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted at 12.15 hours.
