ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17766	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. You're on your way. Here is the first respected colleague Bosnjakovic, so his colleague Vlaovic, the third was Bunjac, Batinić, Bulj. That's it. Let's do it in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17767	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to conduct our consultations, and on the subject of air pollution in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17768	Okay. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17769	I welcome the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you for the opportunity to request a break of 10 minutes on the same topic of air pollution in Slavonski Brod on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17770	It's a muzzle. Wait a minute. All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17771	Dear Vice President, we're looking for a 10-minute break on the same topic of critical pollution in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17772	Thank you, Vice President. Namely, the HNS club is looking for a break to warn of frequent and frequent delays in competitions from rural development measures of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17773	Comrade Bulj, you're the fifth on B, you're all on B.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17774	Here I am looking on behalf of the club MOST break 10 minutes on charges of the Croatian Army's burden, more specifically the 4th Guard Brigade.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17775	Okay. A colleague of Lovrinović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17776	Here is Mr. Vice President and Club "Let's Change Croatia" and "The Power" is joining the search for a 10 minute break due to air pollution in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17777	That's six. Is anyone else picking up? If not, I now declare a 10-minute break and after that we will continue the debates of the representatives' clubs. Thank you. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:40 AM]] First on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17779	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, on November 24th, eight years after it began to work again, the Rafinery in the Bosnian Ship began to become a danger to the life and health of both Brodjana and residents of neighbouring municipalities in my town in Slavonski Brod. That is why today the citizens of Slavonski Brod will hold a peaceful protest for clean air and fight these serious threats to our lives. For an illustration of what we Brodjans have been facing for eight years, I will highlight several media titles, the November 2012 Vecernji list reads "The Bosanski Brod Refinery promises that in 2015" so last year "air will be completely clean". The portal Index in January 2013 publishes "The concentration of sulfur in the air in Slavonski Brod ten times greater than permitted". In January of this year, Slavonia's Voice points out "In Slavonski Brod the most polluted air in the EU" and there are countless such and similar media titles that actually well describe the depth of the problem and they are the sad truth about the air condition in Slavonski Brod. For years, the air in Slavonski Brod has been in second category, meaning the worst for the sumporoc, floating particles and occasional ozone parameters, and in June of this year, at the the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection, we are familiar with the results of new research that say that the air is in the second category and because of the benzoapiran known as carcinogen. Since carcinogenesis is a process that takes many years to expect that the devastating impact of the work of the Refinery will be evident in the years ahead. We do not want to have any negligence by the relevant institutions repeating the spinal disease when asbestos was claimed not to be dangerous to human health that after many years of air inhalation of the polluted asbestos particles developed a lung fibrosis or known as asbestos, whose slow development has a very harmful effect and resulted in the effects of the disease of hundreds of people from whom dozens died. So in this case, we must never allow the neglect of symptoms to turn into a Slavonic tragedy. There is no doubt that the air in Slavonski Brod is polluted and the citizens are justly insolent. The daily odour caused by sulfur, the impact of floating particles and ozone, high concentrations of benzene and benzoapiran together lead to dangerous health problems, increased number of disease and mortality rates, and a significant reduction in the quality of air of the life of Brodjans and neighbouring municipalities. And therefore, in light of the fact that the overruns for floating particles, the sulfurconduct has escalated in November or these days, I welcome today's protest in Slavonski Brod because unfortunately for years the problem of air pollution has failed, but here lately we have some shifts. This problem was also discussed by our Europarliamentaries, we talked about it today and in the previous session of the Parliament we talked about. In April this year, an agreement was signed between the then government of the Republic of Croatia and the BiH Council of Ministers on cooperation in the field of environment and sustainable development, and that agreement has been regulated by legal interstate relations and, possibly, if a judicial process arises on this issue, it will not be possible to avoid it. A meeting of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection in Slavonski Brod was also held in June, built and adopted by the European Commission for an action plan to improve air quality. Politically, we can still work to bring BiH closer together to bring BiH's laws into line with EU gains, and then BiH will be obliged to set higher standards for environmental protection that will apply to the oil refinery. In my knowledge, the next month, the Bosani Brod oil refinery expires, and I believe that the international working group that was founded can condition the parameters for the re-issuing of the ecological permit. Of course, we need to talk to JANAF about the possibility of not delivering oil to economic operators that do not operate by European environmental standards and which poison the environment in which they operate. In particular, it should be pointed out that the competent ministry must take constant and permanent care of this issue, not to make it an occasional and occasional open issue, as the right to clean air and healthy life is guaranteed the rights of every Croatian citizen. That is why I believe that there is finally a solution to clean air in Slavonski Brod and that as a citizen, I will participate in today's protest. Once again, I call on all institutions to do everything they can to enable the inhabitants of Slavonski Brod and neighbouring municipalities to live healthy and secure lives. I support certain requests from the organisers of this peaceful protest because it is the least that the Croatian government and Croatian state institutions can do to solve this really complex problem in due course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17780	Thank you. Second debate of the HSS Representatives Club and distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17781	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HSS Club and on behalf of myself, I asked for a break to point out once again the problem of polluted air in Slavonski Brod and how it affects the quality of life of citizens not only of Slavonski Brod but also of surrounding municipalities, as well as of residents in Bosnia Posavina. It best illustrates this morning's statement by the Director of the Institute of Public Health Slavonski Brod, who presented the information that the recent years have been an increase in the number of cancers both in the town of Slavonski Brod and in Brod-Posavina County. So far, a number of meetings have been held since the last eight years, a series of protests, 18 thousand people have signed a petition of citizens of Slavonski Brod city to start and change something. Too little and too slow, because each sufferer is a great burden primarily for the health care of the Republic of Croatia but certainly our responsibility to prevent it from happening. I would like to remind you that the town of Slavonski Brod and Brod Posavska County do not deserve this from the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia because the town of Slavonski Brod carried out three brigades in the Homeland War, many died. Remember how many children were killed in the town of Slavonski Brod by grenades. So do the citizens of the ship still have to die because of the polluted air? The facts suggest that all analyses and since 2010 measure the quality of air in Slavonski Brod, first with one measured station and then another. In 2014, an inter-state group was formed to monitor this problem, only 2014 was the reaction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then our Europarliamentaries. Only 2016 was signed an agreement on co-operation with BiH to monitor pollution and environmental factors across the state. If we address the problem at that rate, the citizens of the city of Brod will certainly not have clean air. And I think we all agree that we must all have clean air and equal conditions and equal quality of life. On behalf of the members and members of the HSS, we support today's protest in Slavonski Brod, we invite all citizens to come out and, in parallel, invite the Government of the Republic of Croatia to hold a session in the town of Slavonski Brod in the next week, and it would be good to keep it right on Korz, in the mornings, because the low temperatures are expected then the cold air squeezes all those pollutions down so that they can smell that smell and these problems and thus surely be more sensitive to this problem and start to solve something. The solution is in our hands because most of the crude oil comes from the JANAF pipeline. I agree that it is necessary to negotiate, all citizens agree that it is necessary to negotiate, but it has been negotiated for 8 years and there is no solution. We are looking for urgent solutions, we are also looking for that, as requested by the citizens' initiative of the town of Slavonski Brod to get JANAF to reroute to the Health Fund of Slavonski Brod and its surroundings and a number of other solutions from co-financing of renewable energy sources in order to replace the furnaces on solid fuels in the town of Slavonski Brod with environmental energy and all other projects that will contribute to the quality of life of the town of Slavonski Brod. And I would ask the Minister of Finance, I welcome him and he is here today, two projects are related to this problem, one is to inform and monitor the quality of air carried out in cooperation with the Public Health and City Office of Slavonski Brod to secure money for the same and in the following year through the Environmental Protection Fund. Another project in cooperation between the Fund and the Ministry of Health, monitoring the improvement of risk groups in the town of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area just to prove what is causing the increase of cancer in the town of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area, and that this would be the basis for the lawsuits and I think our citizens deserve to be able to prove that the Bosanski Brod Refinery is the main pollutant and cause of the disease of Slavonski Brod citizens. There is no surrender for a clean city in Slavonski Brod! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17782	Thank you, too. 3rd Club, A Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17783	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the Living Wall representative, I would like to say that we support this protest and that Slavonski Brod is entitled to the normal life of its citizens and especially to the protection of life. Slavonski Brod is a city that has existed since ancient times, used to be called Marsonia and today is the sixth largest city in the Republic of Croatia with 60 thousand inhabitants. It is therefore a city that has given a lot to our homeland, from which many celebrities, such as Ivana Brlic-Mažuranić, Dragutin Tadjanović, Andrija Stampar, Matija Mesic, Vjekoslav Klaic, and all the way to Ivica Racan and Marija Mandžukić. But 8 years ago, by opening the Rafineria in the Bosnian ship, the city came into a phase that almost threatens to destroy it because people are mass disease, dying next to it, those who remain intending to emigrate for health reasons, and the country itself, which is no longer suitable for agriculture, fruit growing or other activities, is being destroyed. According to available analyses, the town of Slavonski Brod is currently leading in Croatia according to carcinogenic diseases, and this is indeed the phenomenon of its species because Croatia itself is among the world's most endangered countries of cancer mortality. In fact, we managed to break into the sixth place in the world, so by the mortality of cancers with a tendency to grow. Croatia has no strategy, national anti-cancer strategy and still allows people to get mass disease in Slavonski Brod and there are a number of children among them, I stress, a large number of children. Given that the licence stands out, it would therefore be necessary to press, or urinate on the Refinery on the opposite side to adapt its production to the highest environmental standards and not to call for it to be moved to another location. I have to say, it's amazing to me that today's first time I heard from the HDZ Representatives Club, who has been able to do something about it all these eight years. In 2009, they received a petition from almost all citizens of Slavonski Brod, 18 thousand of them, did not take anything until the day of today, and today they are putting on their desks to help the Bosnian Ship and we support the protest." Well, I think that's the hypocrisy you should be looking for. Well, you HDZ gentlemen had the opportunity to take appropriate steps in time. Both your party president and former prime ministers were familiar with this issue. What were you waiting for until today? You waited for the citizens' protest, you waited for HSS and the Living Wall to come forward, and now you're parading like you're very concerned about the city and the cancer patients in Croatia. It's none of your business. As far as you're concerned, the whole Slavonski Brod can suffer from cancer, all that matters to you is that you politically now fence yourselves here from all of this and still try to score some political points. And I think it was better that you kept your mouth shut today than you did this one scene, so completely unnecessary where you have actually caused contempt in every healthy thinking citizen at the very least. So if you really want to help Slavonski Brod then start doing it right now when you're not bored. You had a chance and this whole year was your government, why you had to wait for a critical moment like this to come that the citizens of Slavonski Brod are now going to protest and this protest will result in roadblocks, blockade of access to facilities and what is most important is a lawsuit against the Republic of Croatia. It really shouldn't have come to this, and here I appeal that already five minutes after 12, do something and don't make this subject such a sad subject come to the agenda in the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17784	Thank you, too. I would remind only that it is an interstate problem, so sometimes the government cannot solve the problem on the other side of the border. So I'm asking you not to let each other live here because it's something that we need to have a consensus on and come forward together to those who are doing this to us. Thank you very much. ... All right, everything's fine. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here are colleagues Batinić and the club of representatives of the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Our colleagues and colleagues and the HNS club are sensitive to the problems of the citizens of Brod. However, I would like to warn on behalf of the club the same problem, perhaps not so difficult, significant but not less important. The same is the case of a kind of picturesquely depicting smoke or creating a smoke screen from someone or something, and it is about frequent delays in tendering measures 7, in fact all rural development measures in general. Namely, here's a short one. We are all aware that the programme of rural development measures in 2015 was to be opened during the 11th, 12th month 2015. We understand the choices. It's long-term. At the time, the first tenders were announced in mid-2016, the new Government was fully understandable and certain amendments to the rules were made, but here are only a few lines concerning candidateing for projects, rural development measures, measure 7, meaning only to a greater extent to units of local self-government, civil society associations and certain organisations. So measure 7 of the basic service, the restoration of the village in rural areas with sub-divisions 7.1., 7.2., 7..4. All these measures have been subject to one single rule. At present, I hope it is valid until July 2016. And it changed as I had said it was first adopted in February 2015 by the previous government, others were in July. Amongst these periods, a few variants of the rules that were in some way whether a guideline, a guideline for someone to run a project, how to run an application, or perhaps have had other intentions. So here's specifically for measure 7.2.1. Water supply systems can also be units of local self-government distributors that have been delayed, I think it's been twice and there have been some interpretations of the already applicable regulation. Measure 7.2.2. of construction of unclassified roads, the first scheduled announcement of the competition, October 2015, we understand the elections. Following this, according to the 2016 indicative annual tendering plan, the opening was scheduled in May 2016. The government didn't work, whether it was a reason or something. The new rulebook came out in July 2016 as I said and it was planned to open that measure in December 2016. But surprisingly, pardon was scheduled for August and this measure was opened only in November 2016 and watch out for miracles I think the open tender was only two weeks. We were looking for the same data, the contest, and it wasn't on those pages where it was supposed to be, it was on all tens. That's why I'm saying if it's not fog like in Slavonski Brod and pollution, but I'm afraid there's a basis to check it out. Furthermore, public infrastructure measures 7.4.1. kindergartens, social homes, social infrastructure. It was envisaged that measures be opened in May so as not to repeat government, change, etc. The opening of the measure in December 2016 is planned and will be monitored by wonders of the announcement of an indicative tender plan for rural development measures 7.4. will be published in 2017. I think I'm asking why, is it being manipulated, whether rules are being tailored and competitions based on what is already known because they can very much suspect that. Namely, information is circulating that for the 7.4.4.1 measure, 7.4.2 of the unclassified road before the tender was announced that this would be enough money for 22 roads to be financed. So how could anyone know that before the contest itself? My colleagues and colleagues, to all of us, I am glad Minister Maric can hear this, because I believe he will be able to influence. But before the Croatian public, let us not create fog where we do not need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17786	Thank you very much. The 5th Club of Representatives is the Club of Representatives MOST- and esteemed colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17787	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, also events in Slavonski Brod that have shaken the meaning of the Ministry of the Environment, have come into international relations which are obviously putting our people at risk because in the BiH area our Croatia, the territory is polluted. And I believe that the Croatian government and Croatian diplomacy must react more strongly diplomatically and, of course, include the EU, which we often call on by means of our own means, to influence BiH with its tools that ruthlessly endangers the health of our people in Slavonski Brod. And this way I send support to the Croatians in Slavonski Brod, our citizens and rightly protest and support them. And our institutions and European institutions must react urgently. This is at government level, state level, and if this is not resolved immediately, people will surely suffer even more and Croatia and the territory is threatened by the other republic. About this case of contaminants that we have in the BiH area. This is a very important topic first. I've come forward because the last few days of the Homeland War have been muddled, the truth about the Homeland War is distorted. This has been the case for the last twenty years since the Croatian soldier stopped a major Serbian campaign in BiH and in Croatia Croatian diplomacy simply failed and began to twist the truth. The truth about the Homeland War is clear. A liberating Homeland War as it also brought this House's declaration in 2000 during the government of Ivica Racan. The Homeland War was liberating and the Homeland War was just and just. The Croatian soldier accuses himself of everything and everything, while those who slaughtered and burned in Vukovar, those who killed walk free with this state. Those who tried to do the greatest genocide by blasting the Peruch dam, which was unmarked and in World War II Hitler's army did not do it, are walking free today. I call on the institutions of Croatia, the State's Attorney's Office to catch the criminal Vukovar, Ovchara, those who are now free, who raped our women in Vukovar, to catch it. The only thing Croatian diplomacy did was deal with the policy of arresting, locating and transferring our prominent sons. It is particularly painful in recent days to monitor the attack of the legendary 4th Guard brigade, which militaryly carried out its task in protecting Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, mainly the Bihaćke Enclave, and based on an agreement in '94. The year in Split, Villa Dalmatia Izetbegovic, Tudjman, along with the Croatian Defence Council, together with the BiH Army, stopped a tenfold more genocide than it was in Srebrenica. Once again as a member of the 4th Guard Brigade, I am sending a message to all Croatian defenders primarily to those who have defended the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, be proud of the Homeland War. The Croatian soldier handed over the state in '95. the politicians who brought her to this level. It saddens me that some individuals are a little young in other people's congregations to mention that the Storm is an ethnic cleansing without Vukovar being a crime. Croatian soldier freed the Croatian state, Croatian soldier left the state to politicians economically and economically today, not the Croatian soldier, but Croatian politics. I once again send a message to all Croatian defenders mainly members of the 4th Guard Brigade. Be proud and fight together to restore pride and dignity to the Croatian people in the unity of all those in the Homeland War No matter what ideologies or lights. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] Because we didn't see the son of a partisans in the trench, and who was the Ustasha. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17788	And the last five-minute debate, distinguished colleague Ivan Lovrinović on behalf of the Representatives' Club "Let's Change Croatia" and "The Power". Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17789	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here on behalf of the party "Let's change Croatia" I want first to express strong support for the citizens of Slavonski Brod in their efforts for clean air and healthy life. However, those of our verbal support will have nothing, and that has been heard over the past years, but should be done. This is an interstate problem. The citizens of the Bosnian ship must work and we understand that, but the citizens of Slavonski Brod must live and it must be understood. What are the solutions? The Croatian government now made up of HDZ and MOST must sit down and agree two things with the other side. One is that the condition to start reprocessing light oil that doesn't emit so much sulphur and install filters, of course it will take, but it's a good solution. If it's not done, another solution, to close the pipe because all the oil that's being processed in the Bosnian ship comes from Omis, it's transporting our JANAF and therefore we can do it. So this is an interstate issue, the interstate problem needs to be resolved in accordance with international regulations and rules, but we must not and must not allow our citizens to be poisoned because 140 thousand people from Posavina were expelled during the war, which means they are now being expelled by dirty air, and of course they are being expelled because of unemployment. There is not much talk here, either one variant or another, and the citizens of Slavonski Brod, I am ordering you in front of the party to change Croatia, if this government does not do so, and you will continue to agree to what the gentlemen in you are the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u17790	That's what we're done with the five-minute debates and we're moving on to what we announced yesterday. So the work continues with a united debate on items 4 and 5 of the agenda, that is: 4. Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2016 and the proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2016 and the second 4. Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and projection for 2017 and 2018 with proposals for amendments and additions to the financial plans of non-financial users for 2016 and projections for 2017 and 2018 of Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, the Centre for Restructuring and Sales, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget and financial plans of non-financial beneficiaries for 2016 and projections for 2017, 2018 consolidated. Explanatory of the draft amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and of the draft financial plans of the extra budget beneficiaries for 2016. The proposer of the acts is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Due to the scope of the proposals for acts for item 5, they are published on the Croatian Assembly website and divided by representatives' clubs. When adopting a State budget, the provisions of Articles 211 and 212 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby any amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed amendments and additions to the State budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted deficit of the state budget and projection. During the debate on the Amending and Supplementing of the State Budget and projections, amendments have been tabled proposing an increase in budgetary expenditures and expenditure above the amounts set out in the draft State budget and projections may be accepted provided that a reduction of other expenditures and expenditures in a specific part of the budget is proposed at the same time. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines that amendments and budget tabled cannot be voted upon before three days from the date of the debate can elapse. I would now like to ask Zdravko Marić, Minister of Finance, to further explain the proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State budget and on the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. It may be a little less time to spend on the execution or report of half-yearly implementation of the state budget, but it certainly needs to be mentioned what is most important in this report, which is that in the first six months, all macroeconomic indicators have continued a positive trend that began at the end of last year with a significant acceleration of certain high-frequency indicators. I will, of course, start from GDP above all, GDP in the first six months has recorded a real growth of 2.7%, but it should also be mentioned that all are just mentioned high-frequency indicators from industrial production, transport, retail trade, indicators of physical tourism and what I think especially needs to be highlighted in 2016, and this is the final recovery and construction, or construction activities, record significant increases. As far as the labour market is concerned, the average number of registered unemployed persons in the first six months is about 13.5% lower than the year before, but let me also appeal and apostrophe that I think all of us together and our discussions and in general talks think that we should take more care of the number of employees first and generally in that category. Therefore, according to data on the workforce survey, the annual employment growth in the first three months continued in the second quarter and stood at around 0.7%. As far as fiscal indicators are concerned, in the first six months, the total revenues of the state budget have been achieved in the amount of HRK 56.3 billion, which is 49% of the annual plan, and compared to the same period of the previous year, that is 10.5%, that is total growth. However, we always, of course, single out tax revenues that were achieved in the first term by 8.1% more than in the same period of the previous year and amounted to HRK 34.3 billion, which is almost 50%, so half of the plan is right. What should be particularly apostrophe for tax revenues that some of them, I will start with income tax, profit tax, and certain forms of excise income, so special taxes, primarily tobacco and tobacco processing, i.e. oil and energy, are being increased not only in comparison to last year but also in relation to the plan. The value added tax as the highest income of the state budget in the first 6 months has been achieved at an amount of 20.5 billion kuna, which in these first 6 months compared to other tax revenues is recorded by some kind of modest we will call growth of about 1%. I can say that in the follow-up year, value added tax has been significantly recovered and raised. What is, of course, even more important in the implementation of the first 6 months of the state budget is, of course, the implementation of total expenditure. The implementation of the total expenditure of the state budget in the first 6 months was € 58.7 billion, which is 48% of the planned expenditure, and it should be said that surely those intentions that were at the very beginning of the year, or after the proposal of the state budget for 2016, that we were sticking to them during the first 6 months and you will see, of course, in the follow-up of the year. What we are constantly pointing out is therefore a strong and sharp control of budget spending, so budget expenditures to enable fiscal consolidation and ultimately clearer, more transparent and more efficient and better if you want to manage the overall public finances. Costs for employees over the first 6 months were made at 11.6 billion kuna, which is also almost 50% of the planned expenditure. Material expenditures were incurred in the amount of 5.1 billion kuna, which is compared to the planned funds for 2016. 44.8%. The cost of subsidies in the first 6 months 3.7 billion, help... abroad and within the general state 5.7 billion kuna and fees for citizens and households in the first half of the 22.6 billion kuna, representing 49.8 planned funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the first half of 2016, expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets was made in the amount of € 1.2 billion. When we sum up the first 6 months of income I mentioned, so I will repeat again, total revenues of € 56.3 billion, and total expenditures of € 58.7 billion, we come to a deficit in the first 6 months of the state budget of only €2.4 billion, which is 0.7% of GDP projected. We will also make one short parallel with the same period of the previous year, the deficit achieved is 5.1 billion kuna lower than the same government budget deficit in the first 6 months of 2015. If we add to the 2016 deficit the first 6 months to the out-of- budget users, if we add to them the achievements of local self-government in the first 6 months, the country's deficit achieved is only 0.2% of GDP, i.e. 518 million kuna. That's something, that's the level of deficit, if you let me say, but it hasn't been seen in Croatian opportunities for a long time. As for how the esteemed vice president said, so with the State budget implementation report for the first six months, of course there is a report, a semi-annual report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half-year. You know, of course, that, in addition to the Budget Act, which is an integral and key and roof law for the state budget itself, there is a Fiscal Responsibility Act which also requires that these reports be accompanied by a report on the application, i.e. the fulfilment or possible non-compliance of fiscal rules. You know that the fiscal rule that according to today's terminology and methodology, which we have prescribed in the law, says that until the middle-term budgetary objective and the adjustment plan is established, it is worth the so-called. the temporary fiscal rule according to which the annual growth rate, general budget expenditure according to the ESA 2010 methodology must not exceed the annual growth rate of the projected, or estimated GDP at current prices. Taking into account all of the above mentioned above in terms of a half-yearly report, therefore, it is estimated that the fiscal rule and that the fiscal rule when we have a full report on the ESA will, of course, be fulfilled because, according to and you see, therefore, GDP growth itself is much greater than this growth in the expenditure side of the budget. Namely, gentlemen, let me now go to this second part and this is the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016, so the budget rebalance for 2016, I will nevertheless as the first sentence and the main and main reason why we are going before you today, that is why in this situation today we are highlighted the fact that, of course, as a consequence of the early parliamentary elections and the formation of the Government, there have been some adjustments and changes in the very structure of the Government, i.e. budgetary users. So this is the technical element that we must mention immediately at the beginning as a key and the main reason why the government proposed to the Croatian Parliament to amend and supplement the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to that element, of course, we have taken into account exactly the stated and explained implementation of the state budget in the first six, of course we are monitoring the implementation of the state budget on a daily basis so that we have tried to fit all these elements into the amendment and addition of the State budget for 2016. So let me, in short lines or in general, try to explain what we are proposing, or what are the key changes both on the income and on the bulky side, and of course what is the most important change that both these amendments and additions of the State budget for 2016 mean from the perspective of the total deficit, if you want public debt. So already mentioned indicators, macroeconomic mainly GDP but again I repeat all high-frequency macroeconomic indicators, not only in the first 6 months but even during the third quarter, have shown even a better achievement than originally and initially projected. And you know that we've been in the projection of the State Budget for this year going with that second-percent growth assumption if we're going to remember and remember it was somewhere at the 3rd month, and at that point of course there's been a lot of shouting and controversy whether it's a real or unrealistic assumption. We said that it was very real, and then we pointed out that it was a relatively conservative assessment and that of course we would make additional efforts to make that growth even higher. For the first six months, this is exactly what it shows and expectations for the third quarter will soon be made, and these figures show that we will surely exceed the 2% in 2016. Our latest projections talk about this and in a few days when we are standing before you with the proposal for a national budget for 2017 you will also hear the official figures of the Government in terms of the total projection for 2016. Anyway, we're currently somewhere at about 2.6, 2.7% for the whole year. These macroeconomic indicators, the implementation of the first 9 months, certainly reflect and have had a positive effect on filling budget revenues. What is important to mention, therefore, in these amendments and additions, we predict that they will be 1.5 billion in total, so 1.5 billion kuna higher, higher than originally planned revenues. Therefore, the total revenues of the state budget from 2016 according to the new plan are expected at the level of 116.3 billion kuna. The biggest reasons or main reasons for these increases are the yields of income from profit taxes, an increase of 1.2 billion kunas, excise duties already mentioned mainly on tobacco and tobacco processing, i.e. oil and energy from 725 million kunas, and also the proceeds from assets, whether made financially and non-financial, are mainly those companies in the predominantly owned Republic of Croatia, an increase of €640 million. Of course, in your reports and everything that we have submitted you have detailed consideration and, of course, in the discussion, we can also discuss the subject in the discussion. As for the expenditure of the state budget, I would also ask to point out a few aspects that we usually point out when we represent the state budget and so on and so on when I represent the rebalancing of the state budget. You know that we have some time at the Ministry of Finance clear communication and some sort of separation between the so-called. expenditure financed from general sources, that is, those expenditures which generate deficits in relation to that category of expenditure financed from so-called expenditure. their own purpose or revenue from assistance. Therefore, those who do not create a deficit, because if the income is not received, there will be no expenditure. However, the total expenditures according to these amendments and the plan, according to the new plan, are reduced from the initially foreseen 122.4 billion kuna to 121.7 billion kuna. Thus, the total level of the expenditure side of the budget is reduced by 700 million kuna compared to the original plan. This reduction is due to the dynamics of the implementation of expenditure financed from sources which do not affect the level of budget deficits and include re-emergences of their own purpose and revenue from aid and donations. However, it is also very important to say that those expenditures are financed from the so-called so-called. We don't break through to the general incomes. You will see for yourself now from my presentation, i.e. from the reason that certain redistributions will occur within the expenditure side of the budget, within the economic classification and also within individual divisions of individual budget users, but the total level of expenditure financed from the general incomes and receipts remains the same, is a slight reduction. So there's no breaking the total level of expenditure. I'm going to do it again, so with $122.4 billion in total expenditure, we're proposing 121.7 billion and if you're looking at it, we're so-called. General sources, therefore 103.4 billion kuna remains in this new draft budget as well. So the biggest savings in these redistributions, we're talking about some items, and now I'm going to list them that you have, and they're increasing compared to the original plan, but there are also certain categories of expenditure on which savings have been made. The biggest savings were made at financial expenditures, partly on fees for citizens and households, then aid, a concrete contribution from the EU budget, and something at capital expenditure. As long as these savings are provided with funds to settle the unforeseen costs of previous periods, HZZO obligations, above all, for the cost of living, and for the part of staff expenditure. Let me now get into the details of these changes, so what I can certainly point out is that something that we believe we have done really well on the bulky side of the budget this year, and you remember well, and those of our own-time decisions on postponing on the international market and ultimately alternative sources on the domestic market, but also a whole series of other measures that we have taken during the year, that despite still below the RH investment rating we are trying to make use of the situation in the financial, global and domestic financial markets in which we are, of course, talking about a relatively high level of liquidity and a relatively low level of interest rates, but again I repeat in Croatia, the situation is that this risk premium we are all paying. The sum of the Sumarum and the result of all our efforts and activities that we have taken in 2016 and which we continue to take in terms of active and transparent and efficient public debt management is a reduction of the total estimated expenditure on interest, i.e. financial expenditure compared to the original plan of 318 million kuna. At the same time, we also note a certain reduction in sources affecting the budget deficit, mainly in the financial ministry's positions, in terms of payment of the RS contribution to the EU budget of 193 million kuna. So we all know the EU budget as well as all other EU member states are participating it and, of course, given its challenges, it comes into progress in the course of the year, and in their budget, of course, in our positions. So I repeat once again the key savings points at the level of the expenditure foreign budget come from savings on financial expenditures or interest of 318 million kuna and on this contribution to the EU budget of 193 million kuna. At the same time, we have foreseen certain increases for certain items, I will start from increasing the transfer to HZZO for the cost of sickness benefits of 135 million kuna. At the same time, we have increased the aid granted to units of local and regional self-government with special emphasis on segments, i.e. part of the county and part of the mountain-mountan areas, i.e. cities and municipalities in mountain-mounted areas, which have been modified and complemented, i.e. by changes in legislation, in fact by certain advertising in terms of their status, experienced and survived certain additional pressures on their budgets in 2016. For them, in this draft budget, we have foreseen a total increase of 20 million kunas, 9.1 counties and these cities and municipalities, mountain-mounted areas of 10.9. There have been some adjustments, i.e. the redistribution in the item I am speaking from the perspective of the economic classification of the budget, the remuneration of citizens and households. Given the estimated funds that we predicted at the beginning of the year itself for the indexation of pensions this year, you also know that indexation is carried out according to the matching of price trends and wage movements, since these parameters were somewhat lower than originally envisaged there were some adjustments to the lower. However, I repeat that the indexation was originally conducted in September. Also due to the reduced number of users and I must say, unfortunately, the number of children using the allowance has also been mildly reduced in this category, and all these funds have been rerouted to increase the allocation for the guaranteed minimum fee of 64 million kuna, a permanent right of 39, an aid and care allowance of 30 million, and a personal disability of 21 million kuna. It has also come and we propose a certain increase in terms of transfers to Croatian roads and Croatian highways for fuel prices. But what I would particularly like to say is that these changes and additions suggest an increase in the category that is very common among all of us quite so striking, which is from the economic classification of the categories of material expenditure. However, immediately here I remind you that this is done exclusively according to the service of different types of obligations from previous periods without any political or similar connotations and finger-tightening in this or that. But the fact is that there are certain debts to the Financial Agency for the Central Payments Accountation System and to the gas oil consumption control system for agricultural purposes and the total amount is 58 million kuna compared to the original plan. However, what may be even more striking in terms of the total amount is part of the damage caused to prosecutors as the verdict says illegal and irregular work in the process of purchasing privatisation. We're talking about a verdict that has become a power of attorney this year, which practically dates back 17 years. The amount that we have foreseen, which is planned in these changes and additions of the state budget compared to the original plan, is increased by 263.2 million kuna. And I'm going to tell you right now that's not all in terms of the overall verdict. The remaining amount up to 414 million we will plan in the draft budget for 2017. I repeat again when we add up and subtract everything together, so a billion and a half kuna increase in the revenue side of the budget, freezing the expenditure side of the budget from the general sources, but when we look at total revenues from all sources, a reduction of 700 million kuna. Therefore, the effect on the state budget and from this is very clear, hence the reduction of the planned deficit of the state budget by 2.2 billion kuna. Allow me this way, of course, that, since we represent both the rebalancing, i.e. the changes and additions of the budget of extra budget users, to look back at them too, because they are important in our integral part, which is that there are also some adjustments in their financial results from the Croatian Waters, Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, Croatian Roads, DAB, CERP and HZZO. I'll mention that the overall score is better than originally planned. However, there are certain adjustments in the development of these 6 extra budget users. So I'm going to say that compared to the DAB perspective, the State Agency for Bank Recovery and Deposit Insurance against the original planned 700 million kuna deficits according to this is the planned deficit of 176 million kuna. I'll say two basic reasons why. So it's usually an institution and an agency that we're used to having surpluses in its business. However, this year we planned a deficit because it was intended to naturally bankrupt the Adriatic Bank, but there was still a way not to go bankrupt, but to go to rehab. The cost of rehabilitation between other places and where lower, however, parallel to that in the course of the year we also had a case of the Split-Dalmatia bank which was also calculated here among other things. At the same time, we have one situation that goes the other way. So, the deficit is where and where greater than originally planned, which is with the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. I'm just going to say that the original deficit was planned for this year in the amount of 245 million kuna, and according to the situation that is now this proposal, so the implementation of the budget and their financial plans, that is, their results, to this day. According to this, the planned deficit increases by 500 million kuna to 757 million kuna. I repeat again when we add up all of them the total original deficit of 0.4% of GDP or billions and 240 million according to these changes and additions is estimated at 970 million kuna, so that's about 0.1% less. And the last category that is not quite the subject of our debate and generally parliamentary procedure, but it comes into a comprehensive calculation of the general government deficit is also the situation with local self-government. So we can say that the units of local and regional, or regional self-government in the first nine months have achieved a fairly noticeable and positive result. So it's a surplus of about a billion and a half million kunas, and that's why we're changing them, that is, in our total calculation, we're changing our projections and projections by the end of the year. So when we add all together the state budget when we add to it a better implementation of the state budget and a much better plan that we predict when we add extra budget users and add to it the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government with the originally planned 9 billion kuna deficits of the general budget or 2.6% of the gross domestic product with which we stood before you in March of this year. With these changes and additions to the state budget of extra budget beneficiaries, and ultimately the overall budget, we propose, according to these amendments and additions, the estimated deficit of the general budget of 5.6 billion kuna or 1.6% of GDP under the ESA 2010 methodology according to our national methodology of 1.7% of GDP. These are the main elements of this report, i.e. the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget of extra budget users. And I have to say here as the final word that, with this significant better execution than the planned state budget, and according to this much better results, many of which have been expected to say that they have made a great contribution and a significant pain among other things that we must not forget and ignore, which is that 2016 is the first year in our past and history in which we have recorded a nominal reduction in public debt. I will immediately say that this nominal reduction of public debt is a special element among other important elements coming from exchange rate differences or the fact that around 75% of our total public debt is denominated in foreign currency. However, it should also be mentioned that this will be the first year in which we will record a decrease in public debt in GDP. Our projection by the end of the year that the share of public debt in GDP from the end of last year and the balance of 86.7% will go to something below 85% of BPD. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18526	Thank you, Minister. We have 13 replicas. The first replica is Honorable colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18527	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, here's the last few days we've mentioned a lot and talked about local self-governments from mountainous and mountainous areas that were declared unfair by law in 2014. transferred to the third and fourth groups because of the indexation which was unfair, the announcements of the indexations for 2018 will be, they will not, and will now be in 2019. Of course, it is very important to show that there are some compensatory measures in the rebalancing process or how to call them according to certain groups, so I see there that those who are the most damaged will get one less part of what they have received, such as. in conversation with you when it was me and General Krsticevic and the leaders of the neighborhood from these neglected, i.e. The forgotten endings, I see that the example of Sinj has a million and a hundred, so similar to Vrgorac. However, my question is that in 2017 you plan these compensatory measures is there obviously no new indexation will be in 2017? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18528	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18529	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So one single note, regardless of what you are asking me for 2017 but also for 2016, is important for mentioning these 10.9 million kunas that I mentioned to cities and municipalities with mountain-mounted status, so the redistribution or allocation of funds goes to those whose value of the development index exceeds or does not exceed 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, since their income from the increased share in income tax is less than those of municipalities and cities from the basic distribution of less than the intended aid. We also talked a lot about the package of tax reform, calling them compensatory measures for local (regional) and regional self-government units, given the fact that for 2017 we are predicting and proposing a correction of the system in income tax. So I will repeat once again that these compensatory measures will be in force from the state budget directly, but we will also take into account the fact that mountainous areas of this year 2016 are relatively more damaged than other units, so that, among other things, we will also take care of the state budget. And here we have shown with this rebalancing that we will certainly not allow their budgets as such to be compromised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18530	Thank you, Minister. Second replica of the esteemed colleague Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18531	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Maric. In your presentation, you raised GDP growth by 2.7% in 2016 compared to 2015 and that this contributed most to the export of goods and services, i.e. consumption and investment. When it comes to exports, it is certainly to say hello, but when it comes to exports, we know that exporters have requested a meeting with representatives of the government, the CNB to improve their position because we see that they make a huge contribution to GDP growth. It is their turn to talk to them and to see how to help them, so here I am interested in their name whether the meeting will come and what is planned to be done? And, of course, on behalf of agricultural producers, I have to ask the question, given that there are around 2.5 billion in agriculture, how much EU funds, how much from national sources, or whether our OPGs can get a report to what extent they've been paid, because some of them get less and simply don't get along and they don't understand why they got less or more, and I don't think that should be a problem. And to the extent that our craftsmen and entrepreneurs are interested in why there was a problem with the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, and you yourself have highlighted the huge deficit of 757 million kuna, which is why the deficit occurred, or when payments to craftsmen and entrepreneurs who have carried out the work on the basis of the contract with the fund will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18532	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18533	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So the first part of your question, there you are, of course, absolutely right. Here I personally took part the same day in two conferences organised, the first by HBOR precisely their 15th export conference, the day after that was a conference of Croatian exporters where I think of one and the other through a very constructive and very dynamic discussion we identified what you say among other things. So exactly the export sector is part of GDP growth, and I certainly don't think I'm going to say dissatisfaction, but the fact that it shows that there is still a little more recognition between the sector and all those who distribute it. I said so and now, so there is no economic model, I would say there is no economic analyst, expert or macro-economicist, perhaps there is, but here I don't know him who would say that some model of Croatian growth should not and should not be based on exports. I think we all agree on this in consensus, but at the same time, of course, it's also a matter of certain measures and activities. I also pointed out at these conferences that the state must, on the one hand, facilitate the overall level of business and administration and, on the other hand, of course, in whatever way it can help exporters and directly. From the state budget, we are all well aware that there are not some very many opportunities except for the continuation of the recapitalisation of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development which, among other things, would continue to be further accelerated by the instruments of export insurance and the general issue of guarantee schemes for our exporters. And in the last 15 seconds, let me just say, so the most significant amount of these 2.5 billion, we speak in the first 6 months, from the first 6 months' report, is the expenditure on the subsidy in agriculture, of which direct payments of 1.4 billion kuna and rural development measures, or the development of 836. These 1.4 direct payments from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund have been refunded 1.3 billion of which 748 relate to the advance paid in December. It's that our farmers are unfortunately a bit insolent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18534	Thank you. The third replica is the esteemed colleague Marin Škibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18535	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Minister Maric. Well, here as an economist, I have to say that for me GDP is not a relevant factor in economic growth at all, so that's the first thing, so whether it grew 1%, 2% or fell 1%, 2% of it doesn't show me the real situation. Why perhaps you have not listed from the economic indicators Gini coefficient, Gini index, for example, to see how much social inequality is in Croatia, to see how richer and poorer they become even more unpover. According to unemployment, we are first, i.e. at the summit in the European Union. According to indivisibility, we are also at the top of the European Union, the departure of young people over 50% according to statistics, the duty of citizens exponentially. My question is how to reduce that public debt, how to reduce it. Also, whether public resources will continue to be privatised under the cover of fiscal consolidation. And I have to say the indicator also statistically that according to Eurostat, we are the third country to public debt, so behind Greece that is first and behind Spain. So these aren't good macroeconomic indicators, I won't be too critical I know it's just the beginning of your mandate but I'd like you to show that objective state. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18536	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18537	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I would say this, that first part you said, I can of course agree, BPD is just one of the categories, one of the aggregates that is very often used in the natural characterization of economic and macroeconomic indicators. I think that they can also agree in this part, and among other things, is the practice of some highly developed countries, especially the United States, if we look at when they have their central bank making decisions on movement and change in monetary policy is actually a key element, the key factor that they take is employment data, therefore from the labour market and in general. I think that, in this opening address, I said, of course, with economic indicators, high-frequency and others above all GDP, it certainly needs to be taken care of. You mentioned Ginny's coefficient, there are many other coefficients that I agree with, certainly not in this report, but among other things it should be taken into account by analysts, both the Ministry of Finance and many others. The other part of the public debt, yes, I think you have recognized in fact one of the key macroeconomic challenges facing Croatia today is exactly that which is what we can say in many previous years even by galloping the public debt that is also taking into account the terminology, methodological alignment with Eurostat. The fact is that it grew up quite high and you may have misrepresented yourself, do not mind me but Croatian belongs to that category of countries by the growth of the public dog, at its level. Let's not worry about it, let's not be happy about it, but the fact is that Croatian public debt is still below average, let's say the average euro area. But surely what we need to do is stabilize him as soon as possible and move in the opposite direction or in its reduction. That's what I showed on the figures in 2016. I would say that the three elemental or key pillars of public debt reduction are GDP growth, it is fiscal consolidation but smart fiscal consolidation and it is the activation of state assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18538	The fourth replica of the esteemed colleague, Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18539	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, first of all, I would like to thank you for your very concise and detailed report, of course there are positive developments in the economy and optimistic announcements for the future, especially for these 20 million units of local self-government that have been abolished because of the poor, or non-transparent indexation. I will ask you for one clarification, my colleague Vlaovic has already asked that question but you probably didn't get a chance to explain it in your answer. In fact, this deficit created by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund at the level of 757 million kuna is incredible when we know that this fund has quite a generous income that actually provides for their business. So I'm asking you for an explanation, can you tell me what the source of such a major deficit is?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18540	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18541	Yes, the situation with the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund, so this year, unlike many other elements and entities, we can say so in terms of the general state, is a negative surprise. We're talking mostly about very positive and much better than expected achievement while we're really talking about reverse here. There were real commitments that were not ultimately implemented that were already evident in the middle of the year and the situation further culminated. These are certainly certain to call them so and some tails from the past, but the suma sumarum of everything is exactly this number that I've told you about. So compared to the original plan that was for this year out of these 240 million kuna deficits with this amendment proposal and the addition plan is in line with their forecasts of 750 million. So, we are talking about 500 million kunas to a greater deficit than originally planned and we, as the Government in the last session, have actually given in this way and our consent because for this increased deficit of the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, they will have to impose funds by borrowing and have already gone in this direction to end, among other things, not only from the perspective of the budget deficit, their lack, but also from the perspective of meeting these commitments actually taken to 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18542	Thank you. Replica number five, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18543	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers to this first part of my replica you can and do not have to answer because it is not directly about this budget rebalancing for 2016 but on the other part we ask you to answer me. So, they're under way, because I haven't been following the media this morning, they're either under way or they're going to be talking to unions about a 6% increase in the salary of everyone in the public sector above all teachers, doctors, cops, all those who are doing their job diligently today. As a former teacher, I also believe that and hopefully in future, I think it is important to respect what is signed and agreed. So it's something that's waiting for us in the future and of course it would be good for you to find models and raise these people's wages. But this is the second part of the replica. So the charges have started, we have four lawsuits and so they're tied to the deficit that you're talking about, and for 2016, is it really that way, because if these lawsuits go, if the avalanche goes, people aren't looking for something they need in the future, but they're looking for what they end up with and your signature was guaranteed back there in 2009. If GDP is three quarters in a row, it grows 2% and more, it will get that salary increase. What in this sense do you think will affect future budgets, future deficits? And finally just one more thing, here's a colleague from MOST now not here, please make this politically sound pretty rough, they're talking about a bad, unfair, untransparent indexation. The indexation was carried out, it's not true that it was nontransparent. Who's she unfair to? For the areas of Slavonia, for the great part of Slavonia, I'm not saying it's unfair. So, so it wouldn't be tomorrow so there wouldn't be some new indexation, based on justice to someone else, so that Slavonia could say now this indexation is unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18544	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18545	Thank you very much. So let me think this main part of your replica and the questions are precisely about the sustainability of the budget from the perspective of this agreement. I, here, allow with all due respect to the High House of course we should present all the facts here, but surely that debate and discussion and talks with representatives of union leaders who will take place in the next days will actually be I sincerely hope to bear fruit and some sort of agreement. We're really talking about the 2009 agreement, I didn't sign it, but I'm not running from my participation at that time. But I will not enter into it so in detail, nor have those situations that occurred after that because there were certain times when the agreement could already be corrected because there were certain safeguard clauses that would, among other things, encourage discussion and conversation even earlier. That 6% is one element of the agreement itself, there are some other elements that, among other things, when they were among other things and signed, certainly did not take into account the depth of the recession and all that we have been through for the past six years together. But at the same time, of course, no one escapes not only responsibility but also the rule of law. So we are ready and we will sit down with representatives of union leaders or union centres and open this debate to see in the context of fiscal opportunities mainly for 2017 that already in 2017, a part of it is returned, depriving or fulfilling part of the agreement but also defining some further dynamics. At this point, I can't really talk about the details with due respect because of course it's only the subject of the conversation now, and if you want the consequential and negotiation that will take place, but surely we'll take care of that element. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18546	Thank you. Replica No. 6 dear colleague Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18547	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers in the special part of the Croatian Road budget position A1010 co-financing of unclassified roads. I also commend the criticism that I believe that 20 million kunas are not enough to possibly resuscitate what is needed. However, I have one dilemma and one question in which way and how. Today it is 24.11. if, and I believe it is planned to do it transparently or spend that 20 million kuna in what way, and we are aware that asphalt bases are being shut down, that the construction operation is ending, I'm wondering what it is? First of all, it's a brand-new item because it wasn't planned for 2016. Furthermore, it is very symptomatic and would like to remember everyone here in the Parliament, it is very significant that it is already the third HDZ government that just before the year of elections or in the year of elections is now coming out with those items. I wouldn't want to, and we had since this morning at the smoke and fog stop in Slavonski Brod, I pointed to a measure of rural development. I hope that these 20 million kunas will be spent on purpose, that they will go through certain competitions means that everyone can come forward, all JLSs that run unclassified roads. And I am not inclined to believe that this will just as well turn out to be taught by years of experience especially in relation to Croatian roads, states and it would be much more logical for me if this position was secured through the Ministry of Transport, not through Croatian roads. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18548	Thank you. Minister's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18549	Thank you very much for your question. Some details, of course, cannot speak in the sense that I am fully familiar with them. The resolution ministry, which among other things is in charge of this part, has practically proposed. However, you can be sure, so nothing would be proposed in this plan of amending and supplementing the state budget that there is no of course intensity and tendency ultimately to be spent. So despite the shortness of time that you yourself indicate that we have only a month and a few days until the end of the year, it is in line with their plans, and ultimately on the trail of 20 million who are again connected to some other relationship between the state budget and certain road companies of the Croatian Roads and Croatian highways will be spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18550	Thank you. The next replica is esteemed colleague Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18551	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, here's a concrete proposal. I hope the cashier's not all the way to the end, and it's about the aids that go to local self-government units, these 20 million. Now, I'd like you to find out for that principle of justice that I often mention another million, and he'd be paid in the name of help, or compensation to local self-government units that generate income from the mining rent. So, in 1.4.2014, the government made a decision on the regulatory price of gas for households when the price of gas was lowered from two and 20 per kuna and 71 and is then the main and only distributor for households HEP. So in 2015 that price fell from 1.71 to 1.59 per metre cubic. Now this year from 1.59 to 1.27 kuna per metre cubic. And what did that result in? This resulted in large incomes in HEP and profit-making. You've shown here nicely that HEP has earned about 600 million kuna. Now there's what we're cut off for. If the price difference is 1 kn and we as local self-government have two percentage shares, i.e. three. Two percent has a county, five has a state. So I'm asking that all those units of local self-government that have income from the mining rent per metre of cubic gas exploited from their area be transferred three Junes, two June Countys, and the state should decide on these 5 Junes because this has gone into a plus that reflects through the positive operations of HEP. So, the whole of Croatia was heating up more favourably at the regulatory price, but we, our rent is accounted for at precisely that price that was lower than the market price on average for kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18552	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18553	Thank you very much. At the suggestion and comment I have nothing to answer in this proposal this proposal that you said was not actually intended as such. Of course, it is your right to say, among other things, that you have the possibility and through the amendment to propose. We'll consider it, but at this point I can't tell you anything that we will or won't accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18554	Dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić, replica number eight.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, here I have to report for the replica to express my special satisfaction with the increase of personal disability and the allowance for assistance and care. You probably know that these are amounts that are very small. So, a personal disability of 1250 kuna, and an extra for the help and care of only 500 kuna. By increasing these items, you have allowed at least a few more people with disabilities to make these social care benefits happen this year. By redistributing funds to the Institute of Arts and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, you have also enabled the Institute to pay service to experts since it failed to hire them, so from the place of pay this asset has been redistributed to services. You have made it possible for a truly large collection of items that have been waiting for years to be solved and probably some of these personal disabilityes and extras for help and care. I thank you, on behalf of all persons with disabilities, truly most warmly because this is one shift, one step further and I suggest and expect, I am sure that you will think about it, that these items, hence the personal disability and the allowance for help and care and in the next budget are not reduced, and also to see whether there is an opportunity for them to increase not only in quantity but also in amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18556	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18557	Here is thank you very much for your comment and everything as well as in this budget, so we will certainly also be in the budget of 2017 on these elements and expenditures, as you have said yourself, we are not talking about and it is not about some very high amounts, but we will certainly make sure that both our fellow citizens and persons who are not only the most socially vulnerable but of course also those with special needs come out to meet, i.e. to provide them with adequate resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18558	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Anyway, the data that incomes are growing, spending cuts are always welcome. But I would still express one dissatisfaction with this budget rebalance in two items. It is about Croatian roads and it is about the Environmental Protection Fund, which has already been talked about here. Why? When he was Minister Mr. Hajdas Doncic, he stole 500 million kuna from the County Road Administrations in his term. After that, he took out a loan, divided by a party coat of 400 million but the ZUCs were lost without these funds permanently and today they cannot maintain the service. Winter service is coming, we don't know if it's going to work out at all. There's a little increase in aiding the ZUC co-financing of the ZUCs that's 20 million kunas. I know it is now in this year and it is impossible to raise something more because it could not be spent, but I ask you to try to suggest to your colleagues Butkovic in that part of the second part when doing the budget for next year to really well consider the condition of the ZUCs, the situation is not good because they are permanently wounded. As for the Environmental Protection Fund, is this a 757m deficit in a fund that was always full as a ship, is this a certain manipulation and an ugly way of working Minister Zmajlovic in his term? I'm looking here, I know that you may not be able to give that answer but I want that answer. Then everything was centralized, the fund took over practically all the jobs, everything was in Zagreb, new people were hired, everything was run from the fund, total cost. I'm really interested in where the environmental protection fund created by Mr. Dragonovich?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18560	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18561	Thank you very much. The first part of course that I will also talk with my colleague Butkovic about this topic and he cares and takes care of the budget of all segments of Cestarski and so will Croatian roads. As far as the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund is concerned, here's another replica on the subject. I'll repeat that it's a rather unpleasant and negative surprise compared to everything else. So the fund that has been a good part in previous years a lot of both fins and a large distributor in the overall achievement of the state budget now practically goes in the opposite direction. So again I will repeat, it is not up to me to judge, and we have taken all the things that have been done within the Department of Finance's section, but I am speaking again about the high and above the possibilities of the commitments that have not been carried out this year and our findings and some other things have suggested that some of these things have been done knowingly or have not been deliberately carried out by those invoices, and now it is all on the table, and the result of this is the deficit of some 500 million kunas. We will repeat it once again to include it in the general budget and we will find the means to close it in such a way that all these contracts will be carried out and that we do not have any additional call so that if you want both the court and the epilogue in terms of the fund itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18562	Thank you. Dear colleague of the Goddess, at least the 10th replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18563	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister Maric. Here are the amendments and additions to the State budget for 2016 as well as the projections for 2017 and 2018 within the Ministry of Science and Education, 22 million kunas are not foreseen for commitments to public private partnership projects in Varazdinska and Koprivnica-Kryzevacka County. I note in the 2015 budget that these funds were secured and were foreseen in the 2016 and 2017 projections. In short, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in 2013 signed a co-financing agreement for 32 school facilities built on a model where the state took over 55% of co-financing while the county participated with 35% and 10% of local self-government units where these school facilities are located. So yesterday I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic whether agreements signed by the government's ministers must be respected, and he decidedly replied that agreements must be respected. I believe there's been an oversight in this case and that these funds will be secured. In fact, we have also prepared an amendment which we have referred to in the procedure because I do not have to tell you what this amount means for these two counties and for the units of local self-government in their area, or for their budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18564	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18565	Thank you very much. Dear MPs on the issue and on the comment. I'll make it very clear to you, and for a little while, there's been no oversight. We are with this situation as such to know that we have on the one hand a certain agreement that has been signed, and on the other hand we do not have the government's consent to this agreement. So one question arises whether the agreement as such was even supposed to be signed. So based on that, the ministry reacted and said there was no basis for such a thing. So we can discuss this topic safely and within this rebalance, and I'm sure it's not just going to end up on that. But again, the agreement is something that we will surely seek to honor any agreement, but it must have its full legal justification. This one, by all accounts, doesn't really exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18566	Thank you. Replica 11 esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18567	Ministers, you're saying that the deficit of Croatian waters is increasing and you're in charge of 171 million kunas, but I think you've completely misread that. You were supposed to predict that deficit at least 10 times bigger because of the personnel solutions that are being prepared there. Namely, the administrative council of Croatian Waters, headed by the Most Minister Slaven Dobrović, drastically amended the statutes and reduced the criteria for selecting the deputy director. Today's newspaper writes that this is because it could be brought there by the godfather of Parliament, God of Petrov from Metkovic, of course, and says that it is a certain Maria Bukmir that probably no one has ever heard of outside Metkovic. So far, it took VSS and five years of experience in the management functions. Since this gentleman doesn't have new criteria have been introduced. New criteria have been introduced. They say it can be a man without a degree, without five years of working experience at the executive functions but that he has special skills such as organisation and coordination to make decisions he's authorized to do. A strangely illiterate formulation like this. But that someone can prescribe this as criteria falls into the insolences of the first species. And that such a man will be another man of the facility that has 3 billion kuna. This is obviously a new contribution to MOST, which is one guarantee for professional people in state-owned companies, and against political staffing, which is why they criticise all other parties. The main motive is not to extend the circle of persons who may be appointed Deputy Director General. This statute must go to government confirmation. I ask you, Minister, when he comes to the government's confirmation, will you vote in favour of this shameful statute of Croatian Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18568	Thank you. Replication response, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative, perhaps just one small correction at the beginning, so the budget of Croatian Waters in the same volume or in a very similar volume increases revenues or expenditures but their overall planned financial result from the originally planned 27 million kuna surplus goes to 117 million surpluses. So it's getting a little bit better. This second part I really can't comment on or I'm familiar with any details, this is what you're talking about. As Government, I also think that at today's session I am absent from it because I am here in the Croatian Parliament, there will be certain measures or activities in relation to state-owned companies or state-owned enterprises. And postulate and certainly the intentions with which we will be led is primarily professionalisation and depoliticalisation, ultimately better and more efficient results of these state-owned companies. A concrete example of Croatian waters I really don't know personally, I can check this based on everything you've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18570	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18571	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, in this report on budget rebalancing, I am particularly interested in the revenue side which is better and as you said yourself tax revenues are increasing over 2 billion kuna and that is good, this is due to economic trends that are positive in 2015, 2016. But what concerns me, especially in the light of the reform or redistribution of the tax that you have announced in recent weeks, which we will discuss next week, is that it is essentially your statement that these 2 billion kunas remain to the citizens on the burden of the budget. It always goes to the burden of the budget but you have neglected that already 2 billion kunas you will rebalance this year, or have more income. On this side, there is nothing de facto about the burden of the budget as planned in 2016 but are better results of entrepreneurs this year. And on that side there was space and I am still convinced that there is absolutely no need to increase VAT in tourism to 25%. And we invite from here and all the guests in the Republic of Croatia to organise themselves and come next week before the Croatian Parliament to say their opinions and all the tourist workers because this reform, this redistribution, will reduce 10,000 jobs in tourism, organise and come before the Croatian Parliament and say what they think. On the other hand, I call on the feers, who are 55 thousand in the Republic of Croatia each year costing 200 to 250 million kuna on this calculation that they will pay a new tax or contribution to health, yes, yes, calculate and you will see, 200, 250 million kuna, 55 thousand people we boast about, who are in some way those who create the highest added value and are not rich And you pushed, [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] The first plan was to push the North and you ignored the 50,000 people who.../The speaker was turned off and subsequently included. [[Intruder Jandroković: A colleague of Maras, thank you very much.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18572	I'd like to ask you to respect the procedure. I'd ask you to stick to the order, you've seen the time, you're deliberately doing the problem because you think that's how you'll end up in the media. Please stick to the line. Here's Zdravko Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, as far as this first part is concerned, I think we can always discuss and debate in one way or another. I am still very clearly and responsibly arguing, so tax reform as we presented it last week and with which we are going to read here next week, so the total weight, that amount that you said, the net effect, about 2 billion kuna, I think it's not quite as simple as that, but we are talking about budget 2017. The 2017 budget is a new story that will take into account the elements of the 2016 budget but, of course, some other things, because in 2017 you can expect that we will predict the indexation of pensions, so it will be by the very part of automation, an increase in expenditure for it, our participation in EU funds, our co-financing of European funds, and that we will not be patient now, all together for a few days when we see the details of that budget itself. So I think that just bringing it all together in the way you said it wasn't exactly true, but of course you're right and I'm certainly ready and open to that discussion. As for this second element you mentioned, of course, it is your legitimate right to support and call for a certain dissatisfaction. I think we talked a lot about hospitality in the Croatian Parliament, never enough, so we should mention it further. I don't think we can identify the entire tourism sector just with the catering segment. We feel that we are returning certain things that may have had good intentions but have not received those effects that they needed. And on the other hand, this element about copyright fees, let me say it one more time with all these numbers you're talking about, so we're bringing in an element of tax justice if you want to end up economically and socially. Because at this point in time, there are a number of Croatian citizens who pay all taxes in the second income category, and there is also a part of Croatian citizens who do not pay either pension or health care for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18574	Thank you. Before we go to the 13th replica, we have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honorary Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18575	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, you have injured the Rules of Procedure in an accident because you have given the right to a respected representative, Maras, to invite people to civil disobedience. This is not acceptable and it is impossible for a parliamentary representative to invite people on the road to define politics in this way. We've been chosen by course to make laws here and manage the state together with the government and the president and not manipulate the road, to manipulate people, groups of people, to invite them to go out on the road, etc. Therefore, it seems to me to be something that absolutely offends the Rules of Procedure and should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18576	Thank you very much. I estimate Minister Maric did not violate the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Meanwhile, a distinguished colleague, Maras, appeared for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18577	Thank you very much. Mr. Reiner in his unacademic style, and I'm really surprised that an academic can argue like this. First he didn't specify which article was injured, I'm saying it's 236. And unlike Mr. Reiner, who doesn't act like an academic, I don't invite people like him to demonstrate and support where there's no place to show their dissatisfaction. You've been visiting tents, haven't you? And now you're going to teach me lessons and I've invited people to what the government has defined to show their dissatisfaction and that's Mark's square. Mr. Reiner, I will no longer call you academic Rainer because you are not acting like a Croatian academic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18578	Okay, please don't be offended. That's the first thing. We can exchange opinions, but we can't take personal offenses. The Rules of Procedure have not been broken either by the Academy of Reiner, but here we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18579	Well, Mr. Vice President-President of the Parliament, colleague Maras, the device is not telling the truth. But it's not once, it's not the first time here, it's just not telling the truth and it's hurting, of course, an article that talks about when it's allowed to speak the truth, and when it's not to tell the truth. Therefore, he should be warned but here he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18580	My practice isn't to warn MPs until the moment I think they've overstepped. This is about the exchange in my opinion of different opinions that are correct at a moment's notice, at moments incorrect but back we'd rather discuss. The next replica is distinguished counterpart Michael Zmajlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18581	Wait a minute. Mr. Vice President, I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18582	I didn't see you were.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18583	I've been looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18584	Wait a minute. I didn't see you looking but I would ask you... You have the right to get a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I would beg you to do this now we are turning this into a completely unnecessary debate without any real meaning, but it's about shooting two MPs. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18585	Well, then let me use my right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18586	I will, I'll let you go, but I'm asking you to go back to a debate that really interests the citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18587	I remind you again that Article 236 has been injured. Mr. Reiner did not mention again which article was broken which was strange for someone who had been President of the Parliament for a year that he simply did not adopt the basic rules of running the session and that he did not know it. And I ask you to warn someone when they don't know the basic Rules of Procedure to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because it doesn't make any sense. So Mr. Reiner has misappropriated the Rules of Procedure's breach institute twice in a row. I say the problem with him is that he's very subjective, undemocratic and non-academic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18588	Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18589	What am I satisfied with?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18590	What did I give you the chance to say this?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18591	And why should I be satisfied with something that's normal?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18592	I'm asking you, are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18593	Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18594	I did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18595	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18596	We're moving on to the debate. Dear colleague Michael Zmajlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18597	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, two things are, so one thing I agree with you in your presentation and you said you were negatively surprised with the results of the Environmental Protection Fund. I agree with that. I'm also negatively surprised. But you said that the fund used to be a feather, you said a feather and that it was a significant contributor to the fund, etc. So I don't agree with that because the fund was in the period before the government of Zoran Milanovic's mandate on the implementation of the 30-40% plan, it achieved surpluses but it meant that it had not implemented the projects and programmes and that the money had not ended there where it should have been finished, so it was purposely spent. I'm negatively surprised you know why? Because the result of this deficit that you're just writing down, so you actually recorded what happened, and it's clear to me that you can't be familiar with all aspects of the fund's business, but the significant cause of this result is the poor management of the fund. So there are commitments that have come from previous periods, they are dominantly related to the energy restoration of family homes that was an excellent project where citizens responded well, where they made commitments this year but that's only one part of the problem, a hundred million and there's a rest of up to 700 million kuna? And I'll tell you where. You have a collapse of the waste management system, a special category of waste. We reduced the fund's revenues to relieve the economy, so we cut parafiscal burdens for an average annual of about 300 million kuna. But you kept driving the old one. Your expenditures are going as old as the fund's transformation has stopped where it was planned for special categories of waste to go they are left to the market and that the costs are sometimes reduced [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] And this is one free fall and a decommissioning of the Environmental Protection Fund. [[Upadica Jandroković: Thank you, colleague Zmajlović.]] And if you don't do something next year, it'll be the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18598	I'd like to ask you to finish. So stick to the line! If we have two minutes and I let you in for 10 seconds, then please stick to the line. No, it's not nervous, but I'm begging you and I'm really letting it go for a few seconds, but I can see that some are ignoring that good will of mine and trying to abuse it. [[Intruder Zmajlović: And well, some of you have given two minutes to talk, and then 15 seconds will no one.]] And that's why I'm asking you not to. Replication response, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18599	Thank you very much. Your Honor, what I said about the previous year I think we can say that the financial result must have been where and where better than this, because this is still the biggest deficit that I personally remember from the perspective of the fund. However, we must say and repeat again, so this is still with all these problems that you have said or the challenges you are facing, I would say not only the fund, but the entire system of environmental management in general, energy efficiency and all segments tied up. It is, after all, because of these obligations from the past that have not been carried out. And everything that has actually been established in the fund and which has actually led to this certainly points to certain problems in governance, but ultimately to the fact that I repeat some of these obligations knowingly failed and in fact violated certain financial, but also the reputation of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. I repeat for the third time, so we'll be able to solve this financially as far as 2016 is concerned. But I think the entire fund and management and all those in charge, including, of course, the Secretary-General, have one serious job that these things must obviously be brought into order and among other things, that we are no longer in such a situation as 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18600	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We're going to a club debate right now. Actually, no, now we have the opportunity to speak to the board presidents since we haven't started at all. So we have a Legislative Committee, a respected colleague of Bosnjakovic's. Nothing. A colleague of Grozdana Perić, president of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Darinko Kosor, chairman of the Committee on Economy. And distinguished colleague Furio Radin, chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. None of them will answer the question. So we're moving on to a debate by the representatives' clubs. The first is SDP advocates' club and respected representative Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18601	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is today's budget rebalance for 2016. My colleague Maric actually introduced and said about macro-economic indicators something, but I will say very briefly about our position as the projection looks and what was actually happening in the economy. Yesterday we saw in this way that we always like to say here we came to power in 2016 and all of a sudden everything exploded, everything is growing, everything is good, everything is positive what was before actually nothing good. It's just that the whole economy doesn't work like that, the economy doesn't work that way. In fact, even in these indicators where economic growth is seen to be 2.7%, which surprised the government itself when it was about 2%, which projected very strongly speak which components of the economy are being dragged and how in fact the former Government of Zoran Milanovic acted on certain components of the economy that have changed certain trends. I'm talking about exporting goods and services that grew 5.4%. 5.4% of exports of goods and services are growing. For what? One of the main reasons is also the restructuring of the economy that took place and the restructuring of the shipyard. We know that the largest part of the shipyard in 2011 was absolutely none of the tours were, and no ship was delivered and that they were all before bankruptcy and we know in what way and that restructuring cost of the shipyard was actually brought into the budget in 2011 and then that deficit of the famous was in fact about 25 billion kuna in the most part, but at that time it was the cost of restructuring a part of the economy to ultimately give you those shipyards, the shipbuilding industry and give you some positive effects in 2016 and 2017 when the overruns are full, when the ships are working from the Oilies. And then the government supported him with guarantees. At the time, the government supported the Uljannik guarantees, and today Uljanik has contracts of more than 10 billion euros with contracted jobs. However, it was not easy to do so overnight, because in 2011, and we know that some shipyards went into bankruptcy as we see the Queen and there was also a problem in Brodosplit, etc. But it was a burden to restructure the economy. Without restructuring the economy in such a way today, we could not have had such results, today we simply could not have had results, and we know what the impact of the shipbuilding industry is, how much influence in the export of goods and services, and also that part of which we also encouraged especially tourism through HBOR, and that is why it is important because HBOR over, about a billion and a half kuna has been recapitalised at the time of the Government of Zoran Milanovic and therefore HBOR has actually given much more incentive to export and goods and services than the banks have done. Because we know ourselves that banks simply had all the limits closed, they simply couldn't finance more economies. And that was a big problem in which to encourage the export of goods and services and this export of goods and services does not come by itself. Also when we talk about another component of household consumption, I'm talking about 3.1% here. We also know that a very large share of the household was burdened with private debts and that long had not increased income. And I still remember very well in 2011 the introduction of the 3 billion kuna crisis tax which also stopped, entered the budget, and failed to close the minus then in the budget, then simply to change the tax policy and therefore I supported here and more times regardless of what I find in the opposite club I supported certain changes in reducing income tax. Gross investment also rises 5.4%. Very, very important especially because construction is like the minister himself said, for a long, long time it has been on its knees. And they hold 70% of the total investment in your economy and your construction. And when they simply fall because all the facilities were re-tracted we know the construction of certain parts of private investment, simply that wheel should be unwrapped, certain companies should be restructured and it would give a certain shift. So all of these components can't come overnight so they have to come. Simply patience may have sometimes been short of that moment, but it is very important to say that certain shifts were not made by chance by just coming certain people to power, if so it would be very simple to return certain economic growth, especially if we know that the largest part of 2016 this was a technical government, especially the first three months we had temporary funding then in the 6th month the government fell, so you have a technical government again. So most of this year was actually a technical government. I know myself so well, and it was written in the paper so when we're doing so well, let's not go to early elections for the government, but we're going to early elections for the technical government if we're doing so well. So they're not just and impossible effects overnight. I'll be very brief about it, and there were also some discussions here yesterday and attacks that the former government did not use the EU funds well, but here we see today 9.7 billion as planned, 1.3 billion unused EU funds, and now at 8.4 billion, and then we're talking, and we heard from the Secretary of State on the Committee on Budgets and Finance that 6 billion kuna was used by the 10th month. And then yesterday I'm trying to say here that it's not a policy of whether the SDPs or the HDZs are talking about the system. When I tried to talk here yesterday whether our system's capacities were sufficient to implement the absorption of funds, so I actually got a negative comment here that that's what politics is doing, and right at the position of the Committee on Fiscal Policy chaired by a HDZ colleague, that's exactly what it says is that spending cuts from sources financed from the EU budget point to weaknesses in the system. So what I'm saying yesterday, and the HDZ colleagues say here's not true, etc. So we're talking about the system and that part and it wasn't prepared for all the money we can withdraw from the EU. So when I speak, and here I hope that my colleague Lovrivnović will drive to it, I think that's how it went under the radar, and we see the pensioners and the impact of deflation on the economy, the terrible impact of deflation on the economy and the lack of monetary policy. And now this example of pensioners let them hear mean exclusively because of the inefficient action of monetary policy they will not feel in this economic growth of 3% will not feel anything, precisely because this does not act monetary policy they will not get a certain part of their pension income through their indexation, they will not get part of an increase in pensions solely because monetary power was not together with fiscal authority and these are major problems. We're either going to change the formula here or we're going to make the CNB work the way it should feel the effects in that part embedded. So hopefully now you can see what monetary policy is like, it's not just a lame deal here that's the real effect of deflation on this part. Here I would just as much and perhaps, perhaps here in that part of the recommendation to capitalise HBOR is this part of the export of goods and services not going to blow unless the HBOR has been recapitalised with an additional billion euros over a four-year period, I'm not saying it has to be in a year, so that we can give an additional incentive to this export of goods and services. I'll take half, and my colleague Miranda will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18602	The distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a budget that shows surpluses and I have to show dissatisfaction with the fact that one item that is very important is not increased in the budget, and it is important for young people, it is important for Croatia, it is important for demographics, and this is an item that is related to active employment policy measures. The measure that has shown that young people Croatia can give them a chance to give them a year's work experience so that they can work in Croatia and the item remains the same as in the 2016 budget. We warned that items in the budget that are related to professional training that the funds have been cut by 50% and that there will be not enough funding for all young people in Croatia to get a chance to get employment in Croatia. And it happened in June 2016 because professional training measures have been suspended and so far over three thousand young people have been on hold, on stand by. Maybe some of them have already gone to Ireland, gone to Germany and still because they don't have that perspective they had through the Employment Service. So I'm sorry that it hasn't been increased that it hasn't returned to that level that was in the 2015 budget somewhere around 560 million kuna. On the other hand, neither the measures relating to the European Social Fund where it was promised when we discussed the budget to compensate for the lack of funds in the budget through the European Social Fund proved ineffective. In the operational programme itself, effective human potential is a reduction of more than 70 million kuna, which means that we have not been able to use all the resources available to us this year. What you can also see from this budget is that on the salary item is the status quo, somewhere we have a slight increase, harmonisation, and most of the items in all ministries are the reduction of wages and that is, wages remain the same as they are. But what you can't see is nowhere to pay for Christmas. The collective contracts for public services and civil servants and tenants make it very clear that this year the Christmas Day is due to be paid off. It is about 400 million kuna for the whole country, it is not seen in this budget rebalancing, and it is unlikely that it will succeed with the unions to agree to postpone the payment of Santa Claus because the collective public service contract is now in mid-12, the negotiations have not yet started and the contract for civil servants and the furniture has been extended for a year where it clearly also states that in the 12th month it is necessary to pay off Christmas. That's what this government is not, it's too short because it failed to launch negotiations but for a year the government of MOST and HDZ could negotiate with the unions of new collective agreements, it could also negotiate that famous add-on agreement on the basis of where the government is now, will have to take certain moves to make the agreement and resolve it. In the budget itself, we do not see anywhere that the funds for active policy and employment measures may have been redistributed to some other items, but it is clear that the budget did not concern young people and active employment policy measures. The payment of child income in the very reason we boast that this is reduced by 10 million kuna, I would not boast it but it is a criticism of all of us because Croatia is obviously old, in Croatia fewer children are born and boasting that this savings is something that borders with hypocrisy and I don't think it should have stood in the reasoning of the budget rebalancing itself. And let's say a few words about pensions. At the time of the pension crisis, we held as much as we could at about 40% of the average salary. However, the crisis has passed and obviously the harmonisation mechanism that we had, which relatively well held water at a time of crisis, is something that should now begin to change. And the harmonisation mechanism in most countries is related to the average salary itself, i.e. in Croatia, we now finally have a median salary with which we can determine exactly what salary is real, middle salary in the Republic of Croatia so that we should consider changing the pension insurance law itself and harmonising pensions with the median salary in the Republic of Croatia. However, as far as I can see today in the government, instead of unblocking those top three thousand and five thousand kuna pensions, therefore non-working pensions, are not related to contributions to work, but are linked to government decisions, laws, parliaments, where we said no matter where you work, what you do, how many years you've been doing, you have the right to retire. I also see at today's government meeting that the separation of pensions is lifted where we have clearly shown how much of the pensions are due to pensions due to the laws adopted here in the Parliament and how much pensions we deserve from the work and contributions that are paid and on which we have pensions. It is therefore one step back in the rebalancing process, it is not respected what should be respected that young people have a chance in Croatia to stay in Croatia. And the SDP club will be against budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18604	Thank you. We have more replicas on your exhibit. First on the presentation of the esteemed representative Boris Lalovec. The first reported to the replica, the respected representative Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18605	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Parliamentarian Lalovac, in your statements there was little, you touched the water and the water economy, from your party as well, and I'm curious, the waters are in a large proportion of the budget, they have water. However, lately when... I was personally amazed by the waters, and I learned the same thing, Mr. Stazic said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not clear to me that people who work for 20 years in the Waters get fired so that some Bukmir from Metkovic will frame and come in without professional supplies and remove certain people from it, from these waters. So I'm wondering if you, as finance minister, would also point to Maric, would you people like him who worked fairly in the waters for 20 years get fired by a man who didn't make any crime in the waters to set up some people a place and could be manipulated probably today, tomorrow and unfairly working in the waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18606	Thank you. This replica had nothing to do with the subject, but it will be answered by distinguished representative Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative, yes, today we have heard for the first time that in this way thoughts are being staffed in public enterprises, for a long time we have actually spoken, or even had an obligation to the European Commission, I remember very well, where they have made it very clear that all administrations and thus not have to be public tender but used headhunting agencies, so this was our obligation to the European Commission. So it's in the papers and it's in the document about the European semester. And now I'm curious whether the government will violate what it sent to the European Commission and say how the administrations and supervisory committees of these public companies will choose or will do this now before the Commission and very interesting will be what the government will respond to, so one thing we send to Brussels and the other we do on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18608	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Josip Boric of the same respected representative, Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18609	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovec, I'm going to ask you to use all your influence to calm down that anxiety at your club. Because it's obvious you're pretty nervous. Now, about what you said. I was expecting a comparison from you. So 2016. 3rd month we brought this budget on behalf of the club then spoke your current club president in absentia Mr. Milanović and he then said the following about this budget, I will read to you from the phonogram only what is most important. So I don't see any financial consolidation, you're cutting revenue. support for student transport, will not be enough for ferry lines, no money for child support, the budget is most harmful to the most vulnerable groups. Where's your money for the railroad? And then this budget came to an end when you were talking about 2016 is bad because it looks like the 2015 SDP, if we all remember correctly. So now I've been expecting your comparison to see if we've met those expectations, whether this has gone badly or if none of it has been fulfilled. And you went to 2011 shipbuilding, this and the fundamental conclusion nothing, something is good, something is not but we won't support it. I really don't see that when something good goes for you to be against it. So you're against tax reform because you're dispensing citizens in costs, because you're gonna relieve the businessmen, you're against the budget because you have all the positive numbers and I just feel that you're pulling out everything that's wrong, what's worst, those worst impulses just because you're either nervous or angry or not understood and you're actually losing that seriousness as an opposition party that you should show that people understand, that there are positive things to reward. At least I expect it from you because you were still the Minister of Finance and you know very well whether it was the technical government that the minister remained the same throughout the year and that the ministry was not closed at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18610	Thank you. The distinguished representative Boris Lalovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18611	Thank you very much. Just peace and good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18612	In that spirit we will continue with the replicas. I hope to present the distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic. And the first one came from a respected representative, Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18613	Thank you very much. Well, you're right, Mrsic, that it is simply unworthy to reduce or not raise funds for active youth employment policies. We also saw in that failed experimental government an attitude towards young people where it actually happened that people over 29 years of age were deprived of the right to professional training without a working relationship. And for those young people up to 29 years of life in which people who are longer than 6 or 12 months in the record of the Employment Service have come to the conclusion that young people have waited and waited more than 120 days for the approval of requests to start working on vocational training. You can see how in the pre-election campaign there are also the presidents of the Republic of Croatia and the previous government, and this government, too, were full of young people's mouths, and when they came to the right budgetary separation test to show that they really think seriously about the population policy on the one hand, and on the other hand, about the youth retention policy in the Republic of Croatia, they decided to abolish those, so I will say the only progressive measures for the employment of young people in the Republic and have decided to abolish these progressive measures, reduce the rights and thus encourage not to stay young in Croatia, but to go to Ireland and to other European countries. Tragic. If it wasn't funny, it would be sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18614	Thank you. The honourable representative Miranda Mrsic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18615	Thank you very much. Yes, fellow Voter, yes, it is. These measures have shown effectiveness, measures have shown that young people can get a chance to stay in Croatia and the government of the Most and HDZ have done everything they can to bring that chance down and destroy it. We warned that there would be not enough money, we warned that young people should be allowed to gain a year of work experience but the HDZ and MOST government decided that young people could not and should not have a chance to work in Croatia. Well, the one who is 25 and one day cannot enter into this measure because the EU is in the criteria of 25 years, the one who has one day of work cannot enter this measure because the European Commission's funds are limited and no one can enter this measure of who is happy, who is the waiter, who has fought through life, who has earned no money in his profession can gain a year's work experience because he worked in another profession. We were, and in the paper there were also in the media about annexes that young people were supposed to sign about the transport where their transport was lifted because again I say the EU has different criteria than our collective agreement on civil servants and tenants to whom this measure applies. So that a young man who has no transport at his place of professional training could not receive the compensation of transport costs because simply the legislator did not foresee it or did not foresee the European Commission. Therefore, all these measures that have shown that young people can stay in Croatia, that they can get jobs over 60% of young people are employed within a year, after the completion of this measure, the HDZ government and the MOST destroyed. The demands of February of this year are now approved, embarrassingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18616	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18617	Thank you very much, President. My replica goes to this tandem exhibit. I don't think they've stressed enough the causes and the increase in income and the reduction or the drop in expenditure as you will. So, the question arises whether the larger revenues of 1.5 billion are the result of the good starting points left by the Government of Zoran Milanovic, or whether that is the result of the work of the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic? I see it as a result of the government of Zoran Milanovic, and if by any chance the government remained then at least the revenue side would have been higher by a billion, instead of a billion and a half would have been higher by 2.8 billion because Tihomir Oreshkovic's government missed those EU funds of billions and 300, and the question of whether this one, the 2 billion that are now projected, will be withdrawn by the end of the year. And secondly, whether the drop in expenditures of 0.7 billion is the result of the savings or the failure of the government of Tihomir Oreskovic. Yesterday, we heard from Minister Kustević on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction who made it clear that this was a result of his dishap because he said he missed the withdrawal of some 700 million kuna from the EU funds and for so much is the shortage. And he stressed that the causes, I quote, are "The Technical Government and the formation of a new government." No mention of the tails of the previous government or anything else. So he made it clear that it was the cause of the technical government and the formation of the new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18618	Thank you. The honourable representative Miranda Mrsic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18619	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Ronko, the government of the Republic of Croatia last year was the technical government of the Most and HDZ. For the first three months, we had temporary funding, and in June, the government of MOST and HDZ already voted out. So, this government is the continuity, and the government of the incompetent that brought Croatia into this situation where it was. So to talk about that these are changes that are related to the work of that government is something that borders on being fiction. Because it is easy to say that all measures and all that has been achieved and implemented by Milanovic's Government are measures that have resulted in such a situation in 2016. For 2017, you can say that this will be the result of the government of MOST and HDZ, but for this year, since the government did not exist, the results were certainly related to the work of the previous government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18620	Thank you. The next replica is that distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18621	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrsic. I'd like to go back to the replica one more time on the subject of youth employment. So, what's full of mouths to everyone and that's demographic restoration, so we have a ministry that has that in its name. However, all of the opportunities we have so far had to hear what was in the announcement actually speak contrary. What we are not, therefore, in the government of Zoran Milanovic, we who participated were not mouths of that, but we were doing something. So I take this opportunity once again to highlight a youth employment project that was an extremely important project, a project that allowed young people to work, a project that allowed them to acquire first and basic knowledge and a lot of them to continue to work. I can and use this opportunity, we're through the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning 100 young people have been employed. And the same way when we were calling competitions when someone retired, then of course we made sure that those young people stayed. It's one of the measures if we want the country's demographic recovery. So, the country's demographic recovery isn't by giving birth benefits to a child or something we've had the opportunity to hear now half the loan being paid, then someone who won't be behind it when those four years go by, we'll have new contractors again. The measure that has been a measure of youth employment and I am taking this opportunity to point at it once again, and I am also taking the opportunity to maybe answer some numbers because it is very important to know that this is a measure that allows young people to stay there. So we have to provide a job and decent housing. It's a condition for young people to stay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18622	Thank you. The honourable representative Miranda Mrsic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18623	Thank you very much. Here you are, like, distinguished MPs as ministers, you've had the opportunity to use this measure as well as other ministries. But what's most important is the real sector where 70% of young people show up to stay with that employer who was in vocational training. So far, more than 250,000 young people in Croatia have gone through this measure where the measure has shown very clearly that work can be found in Croatia, that in Croatia you can stay, that you do not need to get a job. 60% of young people find their place of work after a year, I note 70% of them remain with that employer when we talk about the private sector where there was professional training. The measure was stopped in June this year. It's very clear and visible. Over 3000 have now been requested by the Croatian Employment Service, which have not been resolved and received. The February demands are now being resolved this year. Of these 3,000 people to believe is that one large majority of them will not even be in a position to use the measure because they will go looking for a job outside the Republic of Croatia. 280 million kunas are not large funds for the state budget, so here is Minister Maric with a new budget for 2017. I expect that this item will be at least as much as in 2015, which is 580 million kuna together with EU funds. It is about a billion and 200 million kunas that will help young people work in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18624	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18625	Thank you very much. Carefully listening to both of them say the speaker in front of the SDP club, I would point out that he may have forgotten to mention that from 2001 to 2015 Croatian exports grew over 24% and that, according to the NKD that has been in Croatia since 2007, 88% of exports are made up of the processing industry, which means that Croatian shipbuilding is, and we need to know that the ship is like the most complex Croatian product which Croatians export and is the most represented in total exports and that currently the shipbuilding is on the European list of orders for the number two reasons why their colleague Lalovac has mentioned it, and that is exactly the rehabilitation of the shipyard and good export initiatives and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economy and contracting ships in some countries where they have not previously agreed, therefore, not only in the EU. I am therefore interested in my colleague Miranda this negative correlation between the 380 million kuna shortages for professional training and the actual increase in income that has been created thanks to the measures of the government in which we sat together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18626	Thank you. Here will be answered by the esteemed Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18627	Thank you very much. It's a very clear correlation from what we did in shipbuilding and what's happening now. We have restructured shipbuilding, and what we now see in shipbuilding is a great requirement for people to be hired because shipbuilding has moved forward and if we want to and shipbuilding, as well as for all in Croatia to facilitate employment to make it easier for young people to find their jobs, then we must use all the measures that are available for these young people to stay in Croatia and get their jobs. These 280 million kunas are not big money, and I am sorry that these funds are not provided for in the rebalancing process because they would allow three thousand young people in Croatia to receive professional training and to stay in Croatia without going outside. And when we talk about shipbuilding, shipbuilding requires new personnel, and through these active employment policy measures which are also a reduction in shipbuilding, we can provide personnel, we can provide professional training, we can also provide those staff who are deficiting. And I am sorry that employment in a country where there is a large number of unemployed is the last hole in the play and apparently that the savings that were made on that part are savings that do not contribute to the breakthrough and do not contribute to Croatia's progress. And that's what I hope the 2017 budget will show that the government is counting on people who are now at the Employment Office, not sending them on buses and trains to EU countries and across the ocean.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18628	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Miranda Mrsic, when you spoke in your debate about rebalancing, you said it was being saved on children. So the fact is that somewhere around 102 million kunas remained money in the budget because apparently in the last year there were far fewer children. That money was saved on an extra charge on both maternity fees and child equipment. So we've never had this much savings in our four years, which means we really fell drastically in the last year with the number of newborns. The money has been rerouted towards social benefits, which is fine, but it shows two things. One that we have more and more of those who are poor and who depend on social compensation, so that means that we don't hire these people, but we still get more and more into the social system, which is not good. And secondly, I personally witnessed at individual welfare centers that were part of the election campaign. So one-time cash fees were distributed to people literally by hand and hat in some centres called on people to come to the center for a one-time cash fee that the centre could give itself without any excessive paper and evidence and were told of course who they should vote for. So in some of the smaller centres in my constituency, there were literally lines where people were waiting for one-time cash compensation, so I guess a good part of the money is the ones that are redirected, redirected and in some way participating in the election campaign. And when we talk about demographics, I'm going to do it again, so what young people need is an apartment, a roof over their heads, and they need a job to live on, from which they can possibly pay credit rates for their apartment, but they also need services. That's why I don't understand why the babysitters who are a good service, who are employed on the one hand, are self-employed, on the other hand, service to moms and kids, why they are not released from paying VAT like they do with kindergartens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18630	Thank you. Here's an answer for the nannies, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18631	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Opacic. So together, all they did was work to make it possible for all those who needed it to pay the child's allowance, and to make it impossible for those who wanted and hunted in the blurry, and finally, that system became transparent. I'm sorry that this government hasn't decided to move on one step, and that's that they're being paid over one special so-called. the cash center, but it goes to the government of the Most and HDZ. Again, I note, cynically and hypocritically boasting about the child's allowance savings instead of having all of us in the Assembly agreeing when the SDP proposed its law and raised maternity and maternity benefits on the level that was appropriate and that the funds we did not use to pay the child's allowance that we used to increase maternity and maternity benefits would now have a law that would make it possible, but obviously there was no tendency or desire for the law to be adopted, and there was a big mouth and about 100 euros for each child. Here, as far as we hear and give up on it, it gives up, promise, crazy joy, we can say that all citizens in Croatia can now see what has been promised in the campaign and what has now been realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18632	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18633	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you said that you were uncomfortable when you see the amount in this rebalancing which is intended for professional training of young people. Well, you see, fellow Mrsic, I must tell you that I am not surprised at all because it is a consistent and credible policy of this government. A month ago in this House when Mr Plenkovic represented the new Croatian government in the program and the Government wrote we will redefine the measure of professional training of young people, we now see these moves and how. So these procedures, carried out by this government in the last month, lead to the final abolition of this measure, the measures that have produced excellent results, measures that have led to more than 200 thousand young people in Croatia, of which more than 60% of them have obtained permanent employment and when we add and introduce taxes on the first real estate to be introduced by tax reform, abandonment of measures, from the fee of a thousand euros for the newborn baby, we can only conclude that at the beginning of this government, with its first steps, this government is credible in implementing anti-demographic policy and incentivising youth emigration from Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18634	Thank you. The honourable representative Miranda Mrsic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18635	The measure has shown that Croatia can do better and the measure has shown that in Croatia it can be possible for young people and at a time of crisis to find a job. I am sorry that there are 3,000 young people in Croatia at this time without the possibility of getting professional training and probably looking for work elsewhere outside Croatia in other countries and going to the soul of all those who voted for such a budget. I expected that in this rebalancing budget this error will be corrected because it is a mistake that goes to the soul of the government, the MOST and the HDZ, and it damages young people who start their lives in Croatia and Croatia looking for work. I note that, with that measure, I hope Minister Maric will not end it because in his part-round is also the release of gross 2 contributions for all employers who employ a young person under 30 years of age and give the contract indefinitely. More than 60,000 young people in Croatia received a contract for an indefinite period of time, the rest of Croatia, founded a family, set out to resolve the housing issue so that I hope that Minister Maric will not end this measure that took the hands of young people to stay in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18636	Thank you very much. With this we would go to the next club of representatives and this is the Living Wall in the name of which the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and guests. Today we have on the agenda, so the proposal for amending and supplementing the 2016 budget, there are a lot of details to talk about, so some details have already been discussed. Since this package therefore includes the issue of Croatian Roads. I would like to look back a little on that, given this report that shows that business revenues are lower than planned in 2016. I believe that a significant step can be made in 2016, which is not only up to the Ministry of Finance, but I believe that Minister Maric, as a member of the government, can affect that this issue is finally being launched. In fact, it is that Croatia currently has a toll collection system that has proved to be completely ineffective and that this part could require an increase in budget revenues and above all in a way that finally introduces vinjets that have been objectively late for one 7, 8 years with introduction. Namely, if you were driving and you were driving on highways this year, you had the impression that you were driving on the roads of ghosts, or that you were driving on some kind of private highway that you rarely meet a companion except in the part of the year when the peak of the tourist season is. The system of highway charges per, toll collection through the tollhouses causes losses to the Croatian economy and users of hundreds of millions of kunas because other than having to maintain their own billing houses and pay employees people have to stop infrequently in long columns, which collects transport costs and which wastes valuable time, in particular I mean economic operators. Also, since tolls are charged by people who live along the highway are of no use to them, but land and settlements along the highway are failing and their devastation occurs. In view of the toll collection, costs on local roads are increasing, which often fall to the cost of county budgets and, therefore, by introducing a new toll collection model, they would also be significantly relieved. Vinjeta is very cheap and therefore represents the most favourable solution for Croatian citizens, and all projections show that the introduction of vignettes would increase traffic on highways by a minimum of 20%, while there would be fewer traffic accidents and at the same time give a significant contribution to environmental protection. It would also increase the share of business zones, increase the cost of land along the highways and would be far more traffic for passengers, as they would finally start driving buses in the city and in the intercity of which so far is not the case. They're mostly avoiding those roads. Thus, the introduction of vignettes would result in multiple releases of funds that would be measured in hundreds of millions of kunas of people traveling through highways and hundreds of millions of kunas of people living along highways. However, I would like to draw attention to another detail, which is that the introduction of vignettes is likely to increase significantly the revenues of Croatian highways, which next year will be the main weight in paying off Croatian debts with almost 9 billion kuna. Here we also have an analysis that shows that Croatia has 1313km of highways and has revenue from the toll which is in front of you of 1 billion kuna and Slovenia, which has 660km of highways, therefore doubles its income of 2 billion 800 million kuna. Which means that Slovenia has an income of more than 900 million kuna from Croatia and has twice as many highways. Therefore, if these indicators are relevant, and obviously they are, and if we see in these changes the state budget that business revenues are decreasing even in relation to the planned one, it would be wise to consider introducing vinjets in Croatia as soon as possible. It would probably cost about 90 kuna and 900 kuna per year to increase this 10-day season by 25% of Croatian highways by around 700 million kuna and indirect by more than a billion kuna. The introduction of vignettes would therefore create new jobs and would raise GDP. It is also very important here to warn the Croatian public that the introduction of vignettes in Croatia is obviously opposed to some lobby and that there is a very serious possibility of tax evasion or some corrupt actions, which is an additional reason for this issue to finally be cut off. Therefore, in the very conclusion, the introduction of vignettes would be productive for Croatia's own highways that would have higher revenues, would be productive for Croatian citizens who would save money and time and eventually remove doubts that money from Croatian highways would therefore end up somewhere where its spending is not completely transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18638	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which they will speak distinguished representative Branko Juricev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18639	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, State Secretary, Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2016 and a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the same period as the proposal for amending and supplementing the 2016 state budget with projections for 2017 and 2018 will support the HDZ Club. Namely, the basis for budgeting i.e. the rebalancing is certainly the realization and realization of the planned. That is why I would first pay attention to the macroeconomic indicators we had in the first half of 2016. The results and what can be seen have positive movements in the domestic economy which make us very happy but of course we cannot and should not be satisfied but should continue at such a pace. We heard that GDP registered a real growth of 2.7% compared to the same period last year, that industrial production is by 5.2% higher than it was in the same period in 2015, traffic from retail to retail also recorded real growth of 3.3%. Furthermore, we from tourist areas are very happy to have a total number of tourist nights, also 4.4% higher than it was in the first six months of 2015. For the first time since 2008, we have a continuous growth in construction activities and construction works of 3% higher. Positive labour market developments have also continued. In fact, the number of registered unemployed in the first six months of 2016 was slightly higher than 260 000, down from 13.5% compared to the same period in 2015. The average administrative unemployment rate was 16.1%) and was 1.9 percentage points lower at the annual level. Such a pace is continued in the third quarter of this year, so we continue to record growth and industrial production, growth of real traffic in retail, number of nights, growth of construction works, etc. That is why in this proposal the changes and addition of the state budget for this year are realistically expected to continue with and to increase the planned revenues, so we will plan one and a half billion kunas more revenue and they would amount to $116.4 billion. We are pleased that just the increase according to the plan is the largest in income tax items. They should be 8% higher. Profit tax almost 20%, property tax 25%, etc. This is certainly the result of better and better quality work of companies, companies and thus increased tax on profits. On the other hand, we know that there has been a change in the structure and the detour of the ministries and other central bodies, and they have also required changes and additions of the budget. I would look back a little on fiscal indicators, i.e. revenues in the first six months of this year, and here we see that we have the total revenues of the state budget, which, amongst the annual levels, recorded a growth of 10 and a half percent, and we had them in terms of $56.3 billion. Tax revenues increased by 8.1%, income from income tax 21 and a half percent, which is primarily the result of positive labour market developments, but also high savings income payments. The property tax is also higher by 21%, sales tax by 17%. As we have heard, the minister said the income from the value added tax was achieved in the amount of 20 and a half billion kuna. They'd say an increase in yes, but shy of only 1%. And the result is consumption growth due to positive developments in the economy. When we talk about spending in the first six months, we had the total expenditure of the state budget of $58.7 billion, which is 48%. Comparing the implementation of the state budget expenditure in the first half of this year with that of 2015, the results of the effort were taken in part of the fiscal consolidation that is reflected through the savings achieved at the expenditures financed from those sources that do not affect the lack of the state budget while increasing the absorption of EU funds there I would agree with my colleague, Lalovec, he is now gone, that we should make additional efforts to withdraw as much European funding as possible in the coming period. In fact, four months ago from the planned 9.7 billion kuna, we had an absorption of European funds somewhere over 4 billion kuna, while the current execution was at 6 billion. We need to keep an eye on expenditures, or expenditures, and we would be happy to point out that we need to divide them into two groups. So those financed from those sources that do not affect the lack of the state budget, and here we have general income and income, contributions, dedicated receipts. And our expenditures have been reduced. In 2016, we have 50.7 billion in the first half of the year, while we had 52 billion in the same period last year. While funding sources that do not affect the lack of state budget are their own revenues, revenues for specific purposes, aid, donations, income from non-financial assets. They're our seniors, or 7.9 billion, and last year we had 6.3 billion kuna. The proposed changes and additions, however, reduce total expenditures by 0.7 billion kuna, making them 121.7 billion kuna. And this is the biggest savings we will seek to achieve at the financial expenditures for interest, subsidies, assistance given abroad and within the general budget, while increasing the transfer to the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian Roads and what certainly cheers cities, municipalities and counties help units of the regional (regional) self-government with the status of assisted area and units of local self-government with mountain-mountain status. Namely, with a series of total planned revenues, because we said 116.4 billion and a expenditure of 121.7 billion kuna. The deficit should be 5.3 billion, or 1.6% of GDP, and is a far better result and represents a decrease of 2.1 billion kuna compared to last year. In 2015 and 2016, I would say more about staff expenditures. In the first six months, the amount was $12.6 billion, and compared to the same period last year, the amount was really increased. The sources affecting the deficit have increased, increased by 102.2 million kuna, while from other sources we have an increase of 295 million kuna. That increase should be said that the result and payment of the allowance for past work, we have those 0.5% per year of internship, then Appendix 4.8. 10% on loyalty in the service, payments to officials after the term of office, and we know that we had this in view of the disbanding of the Parliament. In fact, the increase in expenditure on jubilee awards by the government's decision of foundation has increased from 500 to 1,800 kuna, requiring more funding than before, and an increase in expenditure on employees financed by EU funds. Of course, this is the amount that is refunded and financed from specific funds, although we have more than that and costs and expenses. In the case of material expenditure, it should be said that we are those affecting the deficit of the state budget, we have spent and spent less money for the same period, and that is 374.2 million kuna. We only had the cost of material and energy savings of 105 million kuna. For the expenditure on subsidies made in the first half of 2016, the amount is 3.7 billion kuna and there are the most significant amounts relating to direct payments in agriculture. These are European Agricultural Guarantee Fund funds and rural development measures from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. In the case of remuneration for citizens and households, there are benefits for the unemployed made in the amount of 824.5 million kuna, which is a reduction compared to the earlier period. When we look at revenues and expenditures, we must also look at the final lack of the state budget, which in the first half of this year was 2.4 billion kuna or 0.7% of GDP. It's like we said reduction by 5.1 billion kuna last year. I say again, we can be satisfied, but at this rate we should continue, I would say to increase the pace, but this trend should continue. I believe it is really realistic to plan that the total budget deficit of the general government is 1.7% with a new plan for 2016 which is one percentage point less than is planned for the current budget. And here it should be said that extra budget users should achieve a deficit of 0.3% of GDP while units of local self-government achieve surplus. Of all budget users, we pay particular attention to the Environmental Protection Fund and it is really unacceptable for us to enter into the new financial year with so much deficit or so much money that is not plannedly divided. So here's an appeal from the minister, new administrations to make additional efforts to make our extra- budget user the best results because cities and municipalities, the county we all expected very much and very much contracts signed. It is a fund that has its own incomes very large and it is unacceptable that at a time when we need to withdraw even more on these EU funds projects to give us one for our fund to be in the situation it is today. Finally, it is positive that the government has made a decision that the total amount of increased revenue is directed towards reducing the budget deficit, that the reduction of expenditure and resources financed from the EU budget points to weaknesses in the system, and therefore it is necessary to strengthen the system within the state administration tasked with withdrawing funds for projects in the Republic of Croatia in particular regarding education at all levels and implementing the policy of retaining these employees in the system. For all these reasons, these two acts will support the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18640	Thank you. We have three replicas. She's the first to be the distinguished representative of Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18641	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. A colleague of Juricev-Martinchev's. My replica is going to explain a little bit whether you really believe it results from these positive shifts in the business and revenue of the budget and in general all indicators for the first six months in this budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2016 that this is the result of the work of the Government of Zoran Milanovic or is the result of the work of the government of Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic, who was one of the main levers also the minister here present Mr. Zdravko Maric. Because I think we had the opportunity to listen here to the very extensive SDP gentlemen who are now probably at lunch because there is not one in the assembly present, where they were giggling on other people's feathers, trying to prove that just the former government that worked from 2012 to 2015 achieved these results, and we all know together that the results in 2016 are primarily due to the HDZ government in collaboration with other coalition partners, primarily the Most. So, Mrs. Martinchev, please explain a little bit whether you agree with the SDP club's presentations, or whether this is a credit primarily to the government in which the majority of the HDZ ministers seemed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18642	Thank you. The distinguished representative Juričev-Martinchev will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18643	... agree that this is primarily due to the consistent policy of our minister and in the technical government and today Mr. Zdravko Marić and, of course, to support HDZ, parliamentary representatives and the number of hands they had in the past and in the current term. [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18644	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18645	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I'm glad you mentioned the construction sector in the presentation. So it's the construction sector that felt the recession first. Getting out of recession is no matter what other sectors felt earlier, he felt only recently. I must admit that I am personally pleased that he must rejoice and all of us. But really, when it comes to this, it is a long-standing work, a long-standing policy, a long-standing series of measures that are needed for the construction sector to have a recovery, and we will certainly have the next problem in the future, which has already been mentioned in this assembly several times, and that is the problem that the construction sector is experiencing recovery, but there is work but there are no people, believe or no people, the people we have at the Bureau are in this part of the unemployed and we are already calling out for, that is, the whole sector is crying out for the introduction of additional labour force, which will surely have to make some decisions in the future if we want this sector to be at the level at which it is today, the labour force will be a problem. But what I'm saying is when a sector like this that really fell out of one big boom, there are a number of reasons, but now this is neither the right place nor the time to discuss it, it's going to be another time, that when... You have to have a series of measures, you have to have a system set, they have to have one security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm taking this opportunity and asking the ruling even though they're missing a coalition partner, so I guess there's something going on, there's no SDP, there's no MOST, so we should probably ask ourselves what's going on right now, but I'd like to, but I'd like to say something else. You really need to be careful in the future, the system of measures, have a system of measures, don't let all of what we've been doing for years make a wrong decision fall. The construction sector is extremely important and I really appeal to the system of measures and we're going to see what's going on with the SDP and the MOST that there are neither. And the Living Wall, no, and the Living Wall, it's also dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18646	Thank you. Here will be answered by the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev. I don't know if he'll be able to answer this mystery you said, but the rest, I guess. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18647	Dear MPs, Mr. Dark-Taritash, I sign everything you've said. Indeed here since 2008 for the first time the construction sector has recorded continued growth and that the big problem is labour. And I hope that those particularly low-skilled will finally resort to some kind of requalification and that we will also find on our domestic market at least part of the workforce that we need and at this time when a number of construction works are under discussion when we are waiting for even bigger ones who should be financed from the EU, indeed our unemployed and, of course, our government will definitely need a decision to approve and hire outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18648	Thank you very much. And the last replica is that of a respected representative, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18649	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Martinchev, may be our colleagues and colleagues, making a new distribution of forces on the political scene. In fact, I answered the line when you were talking about increasing the revenue side of the budget, you certainly looked forward to it, and you listed some sources from where and how. I'd just like to mention the profit of a $600 million HDP. I agree, the company needs to develop, see both certain proactive things both on the sad and on, more on the foreign market. However, I would also like to draw attention to the minister that why this part, because it is a huge gain somewhere over 2 billion kunas and some million kunas, in 2015 colleague Felak and pro-po whose government is responsible, why it is not reinvested. Namely, I would just like to mention and you will definitely agree with me, there is no better situation in most of Croatia, unfortunately picturesque wooden pillars, low voltage nets, somewhere else two-phase currents, somewhere of course three-phase, are tied to the concrete fences of family houses, unfortunately. The following ministers, I see that the transfer of excise duties towards the Croatian highways, towards the Croatian roads etc.. Why? Instead of leaving the position and allowing the position of 20 million kuna, why not lower the transfer, part of the excise duty per kilometre of the road unclassified, by the number of registered vehicles in a specific area of local self-government unit and that local self-governments have sources of income for maintenance and reconstruction of unclassified roads fixed on an annual level because the situation is catastrophic?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18650	Thank you. The question, which is actually directed at the minister, will be answered by the distinguished representative Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18651	My esteemed colleague, I share your opinion, we have all in our fields of the same problem, a financial indicator that is certainly an indicator of success, but I wouldn't just stick to it. Having a lot of financial resources and then not spending it where our citizens are, or cities and municipalities, need inaccessible. And here we also appeal to the minister when it comes to indicators of success that little influence on our companies in order to bring about both end-users and our citizens to see it precisely on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18652	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of HNS, HSU on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18653	Thank you very much, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. On behalf of the HNS Club, I will discuss the general trends and projections and more specifically our proposals, comments, amendments will be received from my colleagues from the club of HNS who will primarily look back at these aids to local, regional and regional self-government and rinks, classification criteria I do not know about public roads etc. So what first came into my eyes and we asked the minister which is that there are no projections and projections are not obligations in rebalancing but it's good to see them. And it would be very nice if we got projections for a number of reasons. We were changing the ministries first, so then surely what was planned in the budget we can't plan on rebalancing now because relationships are different, that's the first thing. And what is even more important to me, and we will obviously see this on budget planning for 2017, which is essentially corrections based on the results of 2016. I also said in the budget debate that we were not ambitious enough because we predicted GDP growth not only in 2016 but also in 2017 and 2018 which at 2,2, 2.4% which were not ambitious enough because we cannot count that if you took over the Government of the Republic of Croatia and responsibility for this country at 2% or now 2.5 that we are satisfied that after 2 or 3 years of your country's leadership we will be at the same level of GDP growth. We took over from -1.7 in 2012. So I'm also going to look back at a few basic macroeconomic indicators that show us a few dangerous trends. That's what we talked about in the tax change proposals, both in the budget and now again in the rebalancing process. Industrial production is slowing down. We had a strategic document, a thousand times I asked politely, we didn't say anything very loud and said you must pay attention to the operational programmes that are foreseen in the implementation of the strategy to encourage further growth of industry. If this does not happen and it did not happen in 2016 it will slow down the growth of industry, then it also slows down employment in the industry. And it's all in the strategic document and then you see in the first quarter of the growth of 6.9, in the second 3.5 in the third 1.8. We will be below 1% of industry growth per year if there is no realisation of operational programmes and all that is provided for in the industrial strategy where, unless investment in fixed capital comes, we will not be able to continue to grow industrial production. Then we'll look for reasons because it's Racan's government, Sanader's government, from Jadranka Kosor, Milanovic or any other government, but the result will be that the industry will not grow. It grows in the last year and a half after 10 years. So let's all figure out a way to try to save it in the budget for next year through operational programs and realisation of industrial strategies. The second negative thing, you could see that after 2015 when we first had a positive balance of payments where the export of goods and services which tourism of course was hugely larger than imports, we are now in a change of trend again. We had export growth at a rate of 5.4% excellent. We'd be too ambitious to ask for that at 10% or 20%. But our imports are growing at 6.7%, which means that if such trends are going to happen, then our exports will grow if industry slows down at 2.5% with the growth of personal consumption, and that's what we're doing with income cuts is likely to increase import growth and then we'll save again when the export coverage begins to grow. And that long-term sustainability of one serious, one serious economy and one country's economy. And just turn your attention to the trend in this debate. After a few years of imports growing at a higher rate than exporting and I don't think at all that you could, there were two choices, there was no measure at all that could be implemented, we politicized too much, we polluted society, but don't try to get that trend back on track for a year. Well, at least try some measures and not come here for a pay phone in a year when I'm talking about rebalancing in 2017, so we're surprised when imports grow by 8% and exports from 1.5. So you'll say it's Milanovic, Vrdoljak or anyone else. Another serious and surely minister knows the serious worrying data, which is a 1.4% deflation. And we need to seriously discuss what will be a reaction from the Ministry of Finance and the CNB because learning at deflator risk is not good. We must at least bring it to zero or some provoked low inflation rate to have a 1.4% deflation for one medium-term serious economy is not good. What I particularly want to point out is the tax profit that has jumped from the estimated 6 billion kuna to 7.2 billion kuna with the results achieved in 2015 but it is less important but it is obvious that it was a good idea and a measure in tax changes and that, at the time of the tax on profits from 6 to 7.2 billion kuna, that at that moment the rate will be reduced from 20 to 18%, to reduce the rate by both small and medium, because the result will obviously end at those projections that were in 2017, for example, 6 billion, because these additional revenues that arrived this year will be included at lower rates in the following year, and that is a good measure. But I don't understand why we've abolished our reinvested profits. How much we lost here, the wrong message was not used, so it doesn't matter but if the moment people grew and people had the opportunity to use reinvested profits and in those moments, the profit tax jumped from the planned 6 billion to 7.2 billion. I don't understand why it's being abolished. If these rates were reduced at the moment of growth and if we cut from 20 to 18% that's what we're going to do, it's going to be about 350 million kunas, about 700 million kunas of income again we're far more than 6 billion planned. I welcome a very good thing and that's expense control. We've received a promise from the government that regardless of the growth that expenditures will not increase. It's been respected. This rebalancing shows if it's because it didn't hurt Vlado, whether it's from some others, I don't know. But the realistic plan was that all the growth that was coming was going to relieve entrepreneurship and citizens and that the expenditures would be kept under control all the time. For all I know, it was a plan and four years. And that is why I welcome today, but I will certainly condemn tomorrow if we see that the expenditure plan is planned and the projections of growth based on the consumption of what will bring about economic growth, because in all expenditure plans we need to stick to the limits today, and then everything that is additionally income should be invested in tax relief, as I have already said, economies and citizens. And let me get this straight. So it's much more important to us what the 2017 budget will look like. It's much more important to us what the projection and plan of this government will look like in the 18th and 19th years. For all amendments that this rebalancing requires and comments our colleagues from the club will submit very concrete amendments that bring justice, not too much burden to the state budget. And another note from the minister. You told us in tax changes that the result should be between, GDP growth between 0.3 and 0.5% of GDP growth after, yes. About 0.3 to. If we have a growth of 0.7% this year with tax changes to be made in 1.1.2017, then in budget projections when you work you can hardly plan growth below 3.2%. It's just your job, not to mention the structural changes that other ministries need to bring. So notice that real ambition should be at least a growth of 17 out of 3 and a half percent. Because if we got him up to 2.7 today and we're going to go into tax changes that will give 0.3 or 0.4 whether it's 3.3 or 3 and a half or 3.7 I don't know that together with your colleagues from the Ministry of Economy, you'll define it from all other ministries. But your contribution plus what we have today, plus the contribution of all other ministries to the growth of gross social product should result in at least a growth and a budget plan for 2017 of 3.5% and 18 of you are already stable, clear, certainly and more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18654	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the club "Let's Change Croatia" and "The Power" in the name of which the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18655	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There's a few of us here, but that's it. I've read of course, you can't take a look at all the numbers. I heard optimistic data for next and next year. It is also heard that these good trends are being met by the SDP government or is now this new government. Not each other, unfortunately. Yeah? These, at the beginning of this year, we had what we had, so you saw about the best going when there was about no stronger hope for someone to say drive one way or another. So this thesis for us researchers in the economy could be set up to see how it goes. I would focus on one thing, so I see, it is noticeable that the desire to control expenditures is to increase revenues. Of course, what we do not like and what we are against is the introduction of first real estate tax and that means on behalf of the party "Let's change Croatia" I have to say that this is a strong measure to move young people out of Croatia faster. I also want to say that the compensation of this as a payment of 50%, not in the first variant was 50% interest in the first four years, and then it was said not only interest but 50% annuity during the first four years that it would compensate. So, that's not true or mathematically, it doesn't hold water to help young people. On the other hand, the elemental question arises why do we charge them for, say, 750,000 kuna 4%, that's 30000 kuna right away, and then return to them in the wars of some help. But who's gonna pay in the end. They'll pay the taxpayers. And the interest rate that they are expected to be granted is 4.8% which is unacceptablely high and precisely in that bush lies a rabbit. The "We Change Croatia" party proposes that loans be granted to young people who really need money in such a situation with 2% per year, but not from the budget. There are no subsidies from the budget, but the funds would be transferred from the Croatian National Bank's capital account where about 10 billion kuna is available. And one part of that money can be used to approve loans to young families, which is 1,000, 1000 and a half a year for such credit parties and it is completely sound without any intervention of the state budget. But as you can see here, it is not the interest of certain groups not to tell stakeholders that young people and taxpayers come well, but that the financial system primarily of the bank earns the most. That's what you see here. No one questions you. So that's what it is. And the other thing, these days we're watching artists, scientists protest because taxing means contributions. And it's okay when the minister says we should all take a certain portion of the burden. It can't be someone that pays nothing, it's unfair. However, it is also true that in a number of countries they are, say, artists, that they are tax-free. It's a message that's the policy of this society, that's going to encourage, that they're going to punish in some way, to make me a little rougher. So we suggest that the copyright fees and that part of the cultural groups in particular are not paid at all by taxes because that culture is a segment and science... so if we are told that people remain the best scientists, culturalists, etc. in Croatia then I think this measure will turn them in the opposite direction. So, we party Change Croatia wants to constructively contribute not only critically that we are anti-reversible but we offer solutions, and yet I am telling you when someone asks you where money from, I say on behalf of the party. The capital account of the CNB let's open the topic here in this House because I know, I see you're not about it enough... Why? Like I don't know how to fix something on a car engine, so that question needs to be opened to see how it's possible. Now there's one thing I'd like to get an answer for, the exact answer, means it's confirmed or denied. What's this about? We can't have a hard time talking about the future, about budget projections for 2017, 2019 not to say later, if we're not sure about the figures that exist now. And what's this about? Namely, we cannot judge well about the credibility of this budget and these figures that are in front of all of you on the basis of the PDF formats you have received, it is necessary to read the report on the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015. It was officially published on 19 May 2016, and it is written there by fellow MPs and MPs as follows: "The annual report for 2015 shows the general government deficit according to the national methodology based on the data resulting from the different accounting bases used by budgetary and extra-financial users in the recognition of income and expenditure. Therefore, the data presented on the general government deficit are not reliable," I repeat, these data are not reliable. So based on these data that are not reliable not in my opinion but according to the State Audit, we are now building further projections on it. And as soon as we know it's not reliable data researchers, we know that something's not right. Now the question is, someone would say, "What's wrong with that?" Of course, I don't represent the State Audit Office to explain certain items to you, these are problems between the CERP and the Ministry of Finance over certain records, transactions, events. And imagine there's another problem that surprised me. The deposits the state holds with the CNB have a negative interest rate. And what does that mean? He's got to pay. No one else has a negative interest rate. I don't think anyone's heard that information. This is serious stuff. So what we're discussing today is tomorrow, and that's official material about the state budget, we can't rely on it. Then how are we gonna talk about projects? In this context, I would like to stress the following and here is a good opportunity for Minister Maric to be here, Mr Minister, it would be good for you, your projections, because these are state things this is statistics we send to the European Commission, etc. Please deny or confirm whether public debt data are correct? According to these materials, if we look at two institutions publishing budget data, public debt is DZS and HNB. In the CNB's newsletter, the latest data 31.7 this year still says that the local state, as we call it, is local administration and self-government, that it has that its internal and external debt is about 4.3 billion kuna. But the first question is, today is what? 24.11. How in this time when we have data, we have the most developed telecommunications and computers, does it take us 4.5 months for late data to be this important, and in the meantime, and before that, local self-government and community, let's say, there's another debt of 15.5 billion kuna that has created companies owned by a local state. So please check this information because if this is true, everything you said here in good faith will prove that public debt is not 80% but will be 92% compared to GDP. But here is that my concern is even greater why I ask you to do this, let me remind you, in memory of last year's first address by Mr. Lalovec, I am sorry that he is not there, as then Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's statement, that the deficit of the state budget for 2014 is slightly higher than 12 billion kuna, so that only a month later the government and the CNB would recognise the deficit of 15.7 billion kuna, so that the European Commission would soon inform us that he is around 19 billion kuna or 5.75% of GDP in 2014, meaning within a few months he increased as he spoke about 7 billion kuna. Gentlemen, we have a serious problem, statistics, recording the most important figures and indicators, this is confusing and simply asking the question is whether what we are talking about, whether the foundation of this is real, true, because if it's not true then the question is how will the European Commission treat us because it's macroeconomic imbalances, excessive deficit procedures and all this sounds good what you said to Mr. Minister if what I said is wrong, but if it's true then we have a big problem. In this context, then, you should check what the problem is. On the other hand, on behalf of us to change Croatian parties, we will hold a conference, a press conference, here is a material that tells us that the most important macroeconomic indicators in Croatia are not accurate and we will, if not tomorrow early next week, it means very clearly elaborate to see what it is about. We need the truth, we need clear data because we can only change this reality if the foundations are clear and firm and if they are true. In that context, there is one more thing, let's say, it would be convenient to see, if I'm not mistaken, I don't remember, then I wasn't even in politics who was that genius who asked the Ministry of Finance to single out the account of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Let him come here today to explain the effects of that. And what's the matter? It was probably intended to be better managed and we see HZZO and today there are 2.3 billion kunas. Well, ma'am or the gentleman who did it so come here, explain what you've done, so it's gone, be careful. And now it is probably expected to cover the deficit from the budget, cover the deficit. Who's going to do that? Well, I guess the state budget, so that should, then, the CNB cover, that should be the CNB because he has that bill. So we have a pretty big mess in public finances that we all have to sit around, talk about, because the question is, who is then creating that smoke screen if this data is correct because what is the smoke screen for? Because in that context, and I'm going to end up, gentlemen, let's find the right data, maybe they're right, and I'm here in the Condicional, but if we send these data that are questionable, then there's really a danger that the European Commission is accusing us as Greece of manipulating data. Well, I think that's the least we need in all of this. So this debate of mine went that way, so positive that we try to see what's going on with the statistics, which is with the application of ESA methodologies, national, these, those. Why one government when it goes away, so to speak, putting on another for the start of the term of office, it shows that really data management, information reporting and the credibility of information is not what it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18656	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one is those respected MPs, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18657	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Lovrinović, you mentioned in the opening part of your presentation a new law that is being prepared and it is a loan-related subsidy. In life, there is a great difference between what is said and what is really work. So I still can't understand and I won't understand why a good measure that was and it was a release for the first real estate tax, a tax payment that was good, which was stable. Whoever was buying the first real estate knows what's waiting for him to decide to go with one palitative method, we haven't seen that law, we can only comment on what we've heard. And we've heard that the law will be worth a year, that after a year, you'll see what the results are, that 4 but you don't know how to subsidize 4 or 5 years, and a 50% loan war, that's going to be different credits with different banks, and then what happens to these young people is going to happen. We already had one chance to have a law where interest was subsidized. And somewhere around 1,500 requests were, 1,500 loans were granted and what happened then? And that should be analyzed and seen. The following happened, someone was paying a loan while he was being subsidized, at a time when it wasn't, so the state didn't pay, he stopped paying the loan, and we have re-executors, or we have those who don't pay the loan. That's what's going to happen this time, so people are going to get into a loan, a loan that will not be able to pay objectively, the state will pay the first four, five years, and then we'll have new contractors, but I don't know what happens to the money the state paid. So what I'm saying is, it turns out that the state is going to help the banks again and pay the banks. When it comes to demographic recovery, which we all trust, we only ask that it be a systematic solution that has been checked and that can be worth years and not as a palitative method. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18658	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18659	Dear Representative Dark Taritash. You've been in politics a lot longer than me and some things and you've seen better and you've asked whether it's logical, is it reasonable that what seems to charge taxes to young people on the first real estate, and I can answer you with one people's wisdom says if something doesn't make sense and reason logically, then there must be someone's interest behind it. And then it's clear and clear and I'm glad you're getting along with me. And you remember last week that I went out here and I made an appeal to both HDZ and MOST because now they're acting government, government, and now I'm doing the same thing with this pay phone, so please don't do it, give this other model if you want to help people who are young people, families that are in that status, let's give them a 2 percent loan, let this part of the money that belongs to the state and the citizens who are unemployed in the CNB, and there's no one I'm going to say messing with the budget, subsidisation, the calculations, this one and we'll reward each of the next child. So make it 2% of the initial interest rate, each of the next children to cut by half percent, and if the family gets to the fifth child, the rest of the credit to be completely written off. So let's be reasonable together once not because she suggested some opposition or these ruling, let's do something useful for our children, for young families. Here's all I know and what I can contribute I'll put in the service of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18660	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18661	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrinović, you said well that an interest rate rate of 2% could be applied in the way you explained it. However, I would like to warn of another problem and this is a problem of illegal manipulation of interest in existing loans. So at present, debtors in over 100,000 loans are paying illegal interest rates among other things and thanks to Minister Maric, who has not initiated amendments and additions to the Consumer Credit Act, has not launched amendments and additions to Article 11a(5) that we have discussed with him personally. Namely, the methodology for determining the parameters in variable interest has not been defined, banks have voluntarily unilaterally, illegally off-contractually set the parameters at interest rates, which is why infringement proceedings are being conducted in criminal courts, making it possible to charge banks between 9 and 25 billion kunas of criminal penalties. The DORH has our application, he hasn't acted on it yet, we expect him to act. So there's money on the road. Nine billion kunas at least lie on the road, the state doesn't take that money right now and it can pick it up. It's money that goes into the budget in a very simple way through breaking courts. So, I appeal to this discussion of yours at the Ministry of Finance to start making and preparing amendments to the Consumer Credit Act which would end up setting out a methodology for determining parameters at variable interest rates in over 100,000 loans in which they are unlawfully defined, out of contract. And I expect it to start as soon as possible and finally solve that problem. In addition, the Constitutional Court's decision is such that one part of the amendments to the Consumer Credit Act have been abolished, and that part must be resolved through these amendments and complemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18662	Thank you. Although this has also been pointed at more, more ministers will be asked to respond to the honourable representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18663	Dear Mr. Vice President, I will make a good, constructive relationship between one and the other, and I would like to thank Representative Aleksic for this matter. I'll be very brief. If you were to charge the fines to banks on illegal interest rates because they were changing one-sided interest that would result, it would be an inflow for the state or the Ministry of Finance, of several billion kunas. There would be so much demand for young people's loans in Croatia if it came to account. So here's a solution, one of the solutions. And what's best is that there's a Supreme Court ruling, but they don't respect banks, and that doesn't respect the CNB, which is the monetary authority that could order them, we'd like to address this issue raised by the Minister of Construction forgive me for using this way. So we would have the funds secured and loans could be granted without any over-excessive let's say complicated accounting, but first of all, there should be strong political will here. I don't doubt there's a will, but its implementation would damage taxpayers, and they'd be eligible for practically capital. So, once again, I appeal to this to really keep in mind, to take those moves that will not go to the expense of taxpayers who will please young people to stop them in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18664	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18665	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Mr. Lovrinovic. My colleague Lovrinović would ask one question, I, as an entrepreneur, look at this situation in Croatia, GDP rises 2.7%, the tables show that we are growing employment, tourism, exports all going in some good direction that it probably is. However, I find it interesting that loans fall somewhere by -4%, so people don't raise loans. Why? As an entrepreneur, I'm free to say so because no one trusts anything anymore. Who can take credit today and this little thing that's said that young people should be stimulated for a real apartment, so there should be little when a man does that, as an entrepreneur, think about it, when you put it in one level and then look at how it's given, who's probably going to be able to do that young man in the first place, and will he be able to come back? I would seriously ask myself here, and in this country, you just mentioned the banks that were closing our citizens, whether the rule of law can work here, whether we should really go one way where we need to get this people's trust back into the system, both in the government and in our parliamentary deputies, so I guess we should start putting moral people in here, and I've talked a little before about how people are employed by some similarities, no matter what party they were from. I believe that everywhere they need to be capable and smart and moral and then the Croatian state could hope for something. Now, as it happens, everything happens, I have an impression of a political line, and yet I'm afraid we're going to get into trouble, and in fact we're in trouble that some smart people can only draw out this state or the rule of law that should work, and not as if we forgive the banks, we forgive these, the ones who took, the ones who didn't pay taxes, the ones who took these citizens out. So everyone needs to be forgiven. We see that's how it's gonna be. How to move forward. I repeat it again like this and let's not give it away, let's give it to the capable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18666	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18667	Mr. Misic, there are two things here that I will briefly answer. The first is that I forgot to say if the information and data that I got, and they're based on the State Audit Office's data, then this moment, our public debt isn't 288 billion, but 310 billion without interest and compensation, I repeat, if that's true. You mentioned an important thing just before. The decline in the lending of companies, so businesses and citizens has been going on since 2008, and this is one for us economists who deal with this, is one strong indicator that there are negative expectations in this economy that businesses, that investors do not want to borrow because they have negative expectations, because they know they suspect they will be able to sell what they invest in. So this data contradicts this data, optimistic GDP growth data, this, that. So, when we go analytically to look at that indicator, it's obstructive and it sends each other a message. Unfortunately, it's not a chance for me to go further, so I can just point out that we have to have credible statistical bases, statistical indicators so we can know what we're on, and then we can project where we're going. Because if the start isn't quality, if we don't know the exact data we can actually project what we want, but it won't be true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18668	Thank you. And the last replica is that of distinguished representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18669	Thank you very much. You mentioned in your speech and the separation of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance from the Treasury. I'll say right away as a former minister that I stood up for it, and I'll explain why. So, health care is financed from contributions, health insurance policies, citizens pay out of their own pocket, but we are also coming here why the Croatian Health Insurance Office is separated from the Treasury and why it is good from the general taxes. When I became a minister, my condition was that, based on the positive regulation of health care, all the resources required under the laws should be added. The general taxes for certain health services from general taxes must pay 3 and a half billion kuna. When Minister Lalovac agreed to separate himself from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance from the Treasury, he did not pay 3 and a half billion kuna, but a billion and a half. And you said, every government and every year clearly 9, 10, 11 for three years alone, there was no recovery of the health system because I insisted that everything the law should belong to health care. Lalovac paid 2 billion kuna less from the general taxes. And at the end of the year, he's resuscitating the health system. He did not resuscitate the health system but only gave the health system what belonged to him from the general taxes. And that's why there's always a fight between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health. So all health ministers are incompetent because they create billions and a half debts, two billion kunas, and all finance ministers are capable. I didn't accept that part, I didn't accept that I was going to be a bad health minister because I insisted that everything from the general taxes belonging to health care be paid. This is the basic reason for HZZO to be isolated from the Treasury, to manage its resources, and we would be in trouble if an independent institution came and said who was wrong and who was responsible for the lack of health care system. The state, because it doesn't pay everything out of general taxes what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18670	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18671	Dear Representative Milinovic, I'm a little sorry, but it saddens me to hear that you as a former minister, and I don't think it's just you, but the others that you didn't trust the ministers or the finance minister. It's hard for me to imagine such a government, be careful not to trust your Minister of Finance to say we're going, I'll transfer my health account to where? In the Croatian National Bank, and they, I told you just before, charge you negative interest on it. You didn't know that. That's the only way. Therefore, but look at this. Now I ask you rhetorically, you won't answer me because you have no right under this rule. What are we going to do with these two billion missing? You said you needed all taxes and contributions to go to health care should go to health care and there would be no problem. What do we do now? There's two billion missing. What tax we're going to make it out of. And what? Wait. In other words, your thesis is that everything is well distributed according to health care, health care wouldn't be in the deficit. That's not true. Unfortunately, it's not true. I wish you were right and then that would be perfectly correct. According to that logic, the Minister of the Pensions System should seek to isolate his account, since there is obviously not enough there and he lacks more than health care. It lacks a billion and 400 each, a billion and 200 million each month. So here you've just given another let's just say creamworth or ball of love to conclude that our public finances are messy. This isn't how the system works. This is a very important story. In a time of high-tech, Internet, computers, telecommunications, and these data must be cut very fast by networks. And what this is saying is that this system should finally be arranged, this country needs to be arranged. This isn't the state yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18672	Thank you very much. We'd be done with that before the break. There will be a break by 3:00, and then we will continue with the clubs of representatives and the first will be the Club of Representatives of the HDS, HSLS and the Honorable Representative Branko Hrg. I'll see you at 3:00. Thank you. Party at 13.27 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18673	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as many of us as we are. We're continuing to discuss clubs. The next HDS-HSLS MP club, distinguished counterpart Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18674	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected ministry representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here on behalf of the HDS-HSLS Club, I would like to say a few words about budget rebalancing, of course, and in some concrete things about some of the examples mentioned here. So, given the planned growth of about 2%, according to indicators that it will be even up to 2.7% since revenues are increasing, expenditures are reducing, additional funds for local self-government are being provided for those less developed areas. Also, if we look for an increase in funding for unclassified roads and to help the ZUCs, then we can say that these are some of the reasons why the HDS-HSLS Club accepts the proposal for this budget rebalancing. We have often heard or asked the question that the government is responsible for these positive indicators, whether it is the government of Zoran Milanovic or her so-called. Named so-called. to the technical government. I'd say it's obvious that he's so-called. The technical government worked significantly better than that of Milanovic not technically and incompetent, and some examples later I will explain it. Here I would like to mention this very item in the budget of the Croatian Roads where it is seen that an item will be increased to help co-financing, i.e. ZUCs from 48 to 68 million kuna, i.e. by 20 million kuna, and that a new item of 20 million kuna is also planned for aid for non-classified roads. It is also planned around 2 million and 65 thousand kuna, and it seems to me to be increasing the item for the denivelation insurance programme of road-rail crossings, so I hope that there will also be an overpass on the Križevci-Bjelovar road and St. Ivan Žabno, who leads to the newly opened fast road which is open this year and where a big problem is now being created if we add that the second railway track is being built Long Selo-Križevci and that the shops are being prepared to continue the construction of the second Križevci-Koprivnica railway and further towards the Hungarian border, then I think that he should certainly be the priority. I would like to draw attention here to the problems of Žuc's functioning as I have already taken 400 million in my term, then another 100 million kuna, so 500 million kuna, at the same time raised a 400 million loan and distributed the loan without any criteria without any clear indicators of ZUCs that were obviously ZUCs' political alike, but these all remained without regular incomes and today the question is how to maintain these local and county roads, how to make a basket of grass in the end, how to organise a winter service in the event of major rainfalls. According to some indicators, there are about 100km of roads in ZUC, tens of kilometers less for one employee in the Croatian roads, and the ratio is even more favourable for the benefit of employees on the number of kilometers. If you look at the funds that have ZUCs to maintain 1km of road, the average amount to maintain the 1km of county and local road is somewhere in Croatia about 40,000 kuna per year, and in ŽUC Koprivnica-križevci County 25 thousand kuna per year. And at the same time on state roads, it's a few times more than the average that the ZUC has. These days we've had a chance to see that some of the state roads so far have switched to the ZUCs, but they've just moved the roads but they haven't transferred the funds. And I'm seriously asking how it's going to be further since the ZUCs definitely don't have any money. And I know that in this time that is ahead of us these 20 million kuna increases in co-financing of the ZUCs cannot solve these things but I certainly pray that these criteria are respected in the distribution of these funds and that you really see who needs it most, where the biggest problem is, and not that it goes on some lines that are not clear and are not publicly announced. Of course, I have nothing against Croatian roads and there are absolutely no discrepancies, there is too little money in the Croatian roads, we have heard today in the explanation of the Minister who is waiting for all the problems but that does not mean that for the ŽUCs and the unclassified roads, there is no means to provide any means as it was spoken here, I think that my colleague Batinić was talking about the fact that we should put certain ones in a very clear position, to make certain parts of those fees that are made directly for this maintenance and that, in the end, we can work on these roads because they are roads that are in extremely poor condition. Now, why do I think this is so-called. The technical government worked better than Milanovic's government. I'll only give two specific examples. The Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, this 757 million minus detail of the Environmental Protection Fund, which has always been full of money and has never been a problem, definitely raises one big doubt about policymaking in the time of Minister Zmajlovic towards the fund. I will dare say that, in my opinion, it is evident that Minister Zmajlović spent money that he did not have, spent it in advance and brought the fund in the extreme case of both the state and, in particular, the local self-government which, from this fund, had a large part of the programme and the projects solved in the situation that now in this year and in the coming year, he will in principle not be able to do anything at all. There's a lot of mayors, mayors, local officials, there's a lot of people who know the budget. It's known that you can't spend what you don't have a position for, and you can't spend more than you have in position. So I'm asking if someone's really going to take a little bit of a bite into that spending and see what's actually been going on. And what was going on? In 2013, and in the '14th, it was, that programme, an excellent reconstruction programme, an energy reconstruction of family homes, and local self-governments participated in it. It was all done in collaboration with the fund, it was really transparent, it was very well done, it was co-financed by local self-government. And suddenly in 2015, very strange, election year, Minister Zmajlovic simply interrupts the practice, the co-operation of local self-government and the fund and centralizes everything in the fund, of course by hiring a number of tens, several dozen new people. In local self-government, no new employee was involved, that was done by people who regularly did their other job. And that's not the problem. The problem is that it runs away from the eyes of the public, and it is certain that one good part of this minus is right and on that item that no one by the fund has ever well controlled on the ground. The second part refers to the reconstruction of social facilities, as well as energy efficiency of buildings. Here I will give a very, very specific example but in this example it is no longer Mr. Zmajlović himself, and this is where Mr. Maras joins him and they act in tandem. And that's nowhere else, probably in many other places, but right in my hometown in my hometown of Kalnik. I have an example there, so I'll take it out. So what happens is that the mayor of the community, of course, wants to do something, I don't blame him for anything, reports the program, apparently gets the funding, I don't know where on the table of that, on the table of those accepted projects, these projects weren't and they're moving into reorganizing social homes. Great. It's what people used to build, work and help them finish. And all that would be good, and it would all be positive if there wasn't a situation in one such home that appeared on a board like this, and it was a home for the elderly and the powerless on the board. Home to the elderly and powerless. And the funds were applied to social homes. So I'm asking myself, wasn't this about the unintended spending of state money? If the board is a home for the elderly and the powerless and if a social home was made then there was an unintended spending of funds. And that would not be a problem if, from the level of government and Minister Maras, it was not directly supported by it, and unfortunately not only by it but also by the then Minister of Civil Engineering Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, who, with his arrivals on these sites, supported illegally as Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia by such a way of working. How many such cases have been in the Environmental Protection Fund throughout the Republic of Croatia? Do these examples deserve to be more detailed about the situation and to see how these money was spent, why is that minus, when that minus came up, and who is responsible for that minus? Was that money even spent on purpose? Today, entrepreneurs complain they haven't been paid. So they've been cheated, too, and we're going to raise our hand for the budget rebalance in which we're going to accept the fact that there's less than 757 million kuna in the Environmental Protection Fund. And I call upon the government, the resolute minister to give us information about what it was, how these money was spent, and then we can close it all together and say ok, we've accepted this report. It was all right and it wasn't right so let's see it. But let's also see what Mr. Zmajlovic did and how he spent that money. Because he's at the very top of that pyramid, he's the one who basically came up with this whole thing and blessed it, and some others obviously helped him very well. Thank you very much. We will, of course, support the budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18675	Thank you to my esteemed colleague, Hrga. We have four replicas. The first replica is that of a respected counterpart, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18676	Thank you, Vice President. You may have misread or had some information since you are part of the ruling coalition, namely in amendments and additions, or the rebalancing of the Croatian Roads budget on page 7 reads as follows: "Password 105, co-financing position and a real increase of 20 million kuna." And below, it says "Co-financing to ZUCs 0 Kuna". So the ZUCs didn't get anything, neither will they get, but co-financing of unclassified roads is currently helping 20 million kunas. I asked the minister how these funds would be spent since the second half is the end of the 11 months, so it will not be possible to invest and, by any chance, I get an interpretation from my colleague on the board that these are planned winter service funds for mountainous mountain areas. So the Žucs I agree with you, all of what you said about the Zucs, the withdrawal of funds, and so on, but you misstated. I thought maybe in the meantime you'd put in an amendment to increase the ZUCs, which would be natural if at least a little lessened, but I can see it's obviously not that. Namely, and then when you look at this budget of the Croatian roads then you see that it is an allocation, so nothing happened, that excess income of 1.5 billion nothing reflected on either Croatian road or Croatian water, nor on the fund except the location from one position to another.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18677	The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18678	Yeah, obviously there's only 20 million kuna in that part, and that's definitely the problem. I don't have any other information you have, of course, and we don't have any other information than the ones they're writing here. This is the official document that came to the Croatian Parliament, passed all the bodies, and I don't know how anyone could have any other document. But in any case, as a longtime local official, you also know what the problems are, we are all aware of the situation, and definitely for next year we must take this problem seriously. There won't even be any grass on the county roads, local roads. Not to say that today you have a whole series of settlements that aren't still on the asphalt, that these roads are unfalsified, that I'm not saying that these roads can't even apply for rural development measures where there's been a rush anyway, these can't even apply. So the issue of maintenance will have to be resolved, the arrangements of these local county roads and as it is now the situation is not good. This part I said and I expect it to be very clear that we get the criteria, the rules, the knowledge of how that money will be spent so that what happened a few years ago when Minister Hajdash-Doncic really divided 400 million kuna into a coat without any rules. I received a written answer to the question as a representative in the Parliament where the malte was not told it was a minister's decision, he did so and ended it. Not to say that some ZUCs with significantly fewer roads, smaller mileages, got twice as much money with better roads as others. So one very ugly scene that happened and that permanently put the ZUCs in one real situation that doesn't even have to survive anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18679	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed colleague Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Hrg, in your presentation, you said you were valid which government was more successful or unsuccessful and ultimately that court should say citizens, they said in all the polls that they were dissatisfied as former Milanovic's governments led the Republic and this technical one, and surely we must listen first and most to them. And when you mentioned that through these increased transfers to the local and regional self-government units, some compensation was made for the lack of income in view of the amendments to the Income Tax Act. And from that basis, income cuts to municipalities, cities and counties. Well, you're mayor yourself, and you know how much this has affected your city's income, and you know that these compensatory measures are not because it was a billion and a half kuna that could compensate for this income shortage and that they had less opportunities from that base and for co-financing of projects and energy reconstruction of buildings. I therefore think that this is certainly not good and that this must be changed, especially in the context of further tax reforms and increasing the non-taxable income. How much will you see as a reduction in the revenues of municipalities, cities and counties and how much Minister Maric would have to plan in the 2017 budget because he said that he would compensate by compensatory measures through direct transfers from the state budget to municipalities and cities. And I agree with you that if this crime was about the fund and the funding of the fund, and in the context of the fact that our builders can't get their resources for the work done now, they need to be investigated and that it has to be paid urgently to the contractors so that the construction sector can continue to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18681	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18682	Thank you very much, dear fellow Vlaovic. We've talked about these things a lot, and we know exactly what this is about. Yes, and that is one of the reasons why I said that the government of Zoran Milanovic was more incompetent, because it has made changes to the Income Tax Act in a way that has not given any compensatory measures towards local self-government. We lost three and three and a half million kuna in the town of Križevci. Now it has stabilized because there has been a shift in the growth of the small economy, the second climate, the second situation, something has happened. So it's kind of back. What you said now, what you said now and what Minister Maric was saying, so we will see very soon as the draft budget arrives for next year. What he was saying I believe will be predicted, means the fund from which that deficit will be compensated that will result in changes to these laws that are now. I didn't say there was a crime. I've just cited some concrete examples of what I've seen in my eyes and what as a local official I know can't happen and what people laugh at me in my Crosses and tell me how you can't, and there they can. So wait a minute, let's get this straight. I'm not saying there was anything wrong. Maybe everything was fine. Minus... One million kuna, let's question him, so it's not just so let's just get it over with that way, let's explore, let's see, make means inspections, surveillance, check out how that money was spent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To see, of course, how people are paid what is said today that these contractors are ultimately not damaged because they have done their job fairly. But those who are responsible for it must answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18683	Thank you. Third replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18684	Thank you very much. Mr. Casher, my God, Mr. Casher, Mr. Hrg. Kacher is the head of the Kalnik municipality where you have an exact example of how someone because of his anger and wickedness is even able to be an enemy if he is not there in power. The Calnick stream is a small place where Mr. Branko Hrg was born, has 40 households, 2 hundred people live there, 133 voters and had a social home that was built in '82. A year. And the head of the municipality decided to start rebuilding the social home and exploited certain resources that the municipality could gain at its disposal. And what's wrong with that, Mr. Hrg? So you to your place, to your family there who live, who will benefit from it now because Mr. Casher is in the SDP, which you are not good with him, you are able to call his place by the pay phone, your people who live there who will benefit only and exclusively from evil, from nothing else. And I'll tell you that, I've been there. I'm glad they got a social home if this is the truth that you're saying there's some kind of crime that I don't think is. Feel free to file a criminal report against Mr. Casher and respond in this way. Don't embarrass yourself, your community and your place where you were born. Well, nobody should do that, not because of the relationship between HSS, SDP and HDZ. What difference does it make? People got something out there. Now I hear information that this home is being designed and all the social homes in the community are going to have beds for the elderly and the powerless and that's all that matters. And I'd worry if I were you that in my place where I was born, let's say a representative of the SDP as I got more preferential votes than you. That still speaks more of you than what you've told here. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18685	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18686	Comrade Maras, if it wasn't for you, you might have fallen from horseback on Kalnik. Mr. Maras, you were the Minister of Government. What does this one say? What does it say up here? The building board, home for older and powerless persons, the Calnick stream. What were you opening up for? Home for the elderly and the powerless or the social home? Did you place money from the state budget for the House for the Elderly and Powerless or did you place money for a social home? What are you for? Let's not do that. We know how much money is spent. And I ask you nicely, as the Minister of the day, whether you may have put the law in another way in your desire to fight for power and simply go to buy votes. I haven't mentioned the name and name of the chief in a single word. I even said in the introduction that I had nothing against him, that he fought for his village, for his community. I respect that. But I resent you and your colleague Zmailovic. No, no, no. I'm sorry, Mr. Maras, I resent you letting the money from the wrong position be placed for the wrong purpose instead of giving money to that social home. So why didn't you give up money for a social home? Why'd you mess around? If this is the exact board, and it's the exact board. So, you're the one who helped unintentional spending the money. You were the minister. So what message do you send to the other chiefs? Which you, don't get into my word for. What message are you sending?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18687	Just a little colleague, Hrg. I'm asking you not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18688	It's obviously a little bit worse for you to turn on a horse, so you've hit a rock of mud, and now you're talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18689	Thank you very much. Next replica, colleague Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18690	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Hrg. Here I would, however, return from Kalnik and Dom a little bit to ZUC and County Road Administration, i.e. the means which Mr Batinić said were unfortunately not foreseen in the 2016 rebalancing for the County Road Administrations, and the County Road Administrations are really in poor financial condition and ZUC... The Koprivnica-križevska, from which I come, which has not a mile of highways, has certainly been punished in this country for many years, by not making a mile of highway, and on the other hand the funds for the county roads that go across the county road administrations are constantly shrinking and the last drastic reduction was this mentioned by Mr. Hrg by Minister Hajdas Doncic. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] But at the same time, in the area where it came from, it was built, and it is widely seen that for some there were funds and were distributed according to the grandmother and uncles, and for us most of the others in Croatia there were no funds. I therefore appeal to both the Government and the Minister when the budget will be made for next year because there is no longer time in this rebalancing to make sure that the different funding model of ZUCs is found to return at least those funds that were up to a few years ago, if they do not already increase because, let's just say, Koprivnica County has over 900km of county and local roads to maintain through ZUC, and this is, with these current funds, the impossible mission and quality of life and everything else in that area is falling drastically, and it should gradually set aside and wherever and where to improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18691	Thank you. A reply to the replica of my colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18692	Thank you very much. Comrade Felak, it's not exactly this finding of yours that's been made to the end that none of a mile has been made. Namely, this fast road leg of the sub-level ipilon to the Križevci is built from the program of Croatian highways, which is that the categorization of the fast road and now only comes to re-use, so we can say that in that part is also the office, that we are not here to say bad after hundreds of years at the very end of the case. But what you yourself mentioned was what I was saying, so 25 million kuna in four years lost the ZUC of the Koprivnica-Crying County. It's a one-year budget. We can't take it anymore, so this ZUC can't function normally anymore he doesn't have employees he has six employees, you said yourself how many kilometers of roads. We have villages that are on our stone roads, on our tent, so we have people living today in the 21st century on county local roads, living on stone roads, on the dust. We can't finance, we can't run anywhere because there's no money for it, the ZUC can't track it. And it will really have to be done for the next budget, the next programme really well considered, see few where conditions are and make one fairer redistribution but without one quality financing of ZUC or local county roads and then the unclassified roads that municipalities and cities have to solve, will not be able to take any step. We're standing, the roads are still going down in a couple of years. It's going to be a triple cost because what we have now is going to fail because it can't be maintained.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18693	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. He's the first to be honored colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18694	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is good that citizens have the opportunity to follow this debate too because right now I have received a text from a concerned resident of the Kalnik stream where Mr. Hrg came from, who wrote to me and says "The project carried out by the Kalnik Municipality in collaboration with the Environmental Protection Fund is called not losing social energy, think green. The project includes not residential buildings in the Municipality of Kalnik, among other things, one of these buildings is the Social House building in Potok Kalnik, where the works of energy efficiency, the insulation of the roof, and the construction of the envelope of the building were carried out. Energy efficiency resolutions do not require a building permit and this is what the mayor of the Križevci and the honourable parliamentary representative had to know. What I'm saying, Mr. Honorable Parliamentary Representative Branko Hrg, what Mr. Hrg is saying is false and unargumented accusations against the head of the Kalnik municipality, who is also his next cousin. For works performed on non-occupied buildings in Kalnik Municipality there are all documents on building rights, the building has building permits and had all the elements for co-financing of the Environmental Protection Fund and the Kalnik Municipality." So here's right away that Mr. Honorable Representative who obviously isn't a representative of these citizens from the Calnick stream and that part of the Kalnik Municipality is his only interest I guess is to represent the citizens who voted for him, to know the full information that he no longer mentions because of him and his seriousness, and not Mr. Hrg's residential building, I don't know if he heard what I just said. I'll give you a stenogram and then you'll be able to look at what I said. So much for Mr. Hrg and his place, that's how he fights for his family and residents. Now, around the 2016 rebalance, I am pleased that this rebalancing is such that it goes in a positive direction, that the revenues are higher, but what we must of course point out here are two basic reasons why tax revenues are higher. The number one is economic growth and economic movements that are driven by the activity of entrepreneurs in 2014, 2015 because it is clear to everyone seriously that the government that has worked since the temporary financing and adoption of the budget in the third month until the sixth month has not been able to do anything to make these results the way they are. And on that side of the positive course that was mentioned today in his debate by Mr. Lalovec, is something that helped us to have these results. The previous governments that made, or not earlier, the government that made in 4 years a lot so that VAT was not in the budget of 38 billion but 44 revenues, that the profit tax was not 4 billion but 7 billion and 200 and all of these positive trends contributed to the fact that we now have a situation like this which is that it is better than it has been in the past years. And the second reason why the government had no projects such as transport renaissance or other projects, such as examining positive HDZ trends in Omis, which have emptyed the public budget at the expense of individuals or political parties in this case. It is fortunate that the government only acted for three months because in that situation it would have been longer and had all year long been projects such as traffic renaissance, testing of winning local trends and similar to everything unfortunately emptying the RS budget and we have seen what it looks like in the past. So one reason is economic trends and another reason is the shortness of action or the inability to renaissance and similar projects to be applied. What concerns me is the indifference and indifference of Prime Minister Plenkovic yesterday according to these projects that call for subsidiarity in HDZ, and this subsidiarity obviously seems to be within the jurisdiction of the city of Zadar, then I, as the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia, have nothing to show about the manifests and thefts that took place there. Now we simply cannot accept it and we are concerned and I am personally concerned about what Mr. Plenkovic is calling for subsidiarity and stands firm as a pillar, as a stone behind Mr. Calemeta and defends Mr. Kalemet and defends Mr. Kirin who also had a relationship with the withdrawal of money from budget funds and the mayor is the city of Virovitica. And that's not what these European values are, that's not all Mr. Plenkovic used to say or speak as Croatian prime minister. So we expect in the future and at the presentation of the 2017 budget that Mr Plenkovic should be fenced from those who took public money for personal or party needs. Not if he wants his credibility to protect himself to remain with Mr. Kalmet as his closest associate, and I have the impression that he is doing this and that Mr. Plenkovic is essentially covering for Mr. Calmet. Another thing that is particularly interesting to me in the budget, which I said earlier at Minister Maric's discussion, means there is no need to raise VAT in the catering sector because this budget rebalance shows that income from profit tax is 2 billion kuna more than income from increased VAT in tourism. And basically there's no reform, there's no strategy but it's simply redistributed. Someone decided to increase VAT for some reason that they were allegedly in a privileged position for the past four years, and now, in particular, changes the whole story. And I'm telling you, remember what I said especially by you who are from strong tourist environments in Dalmatia, that 10,000 people in tourism will be out of work because of this measure and there's no need for it. Just as there is no need to reduce, it burdens the work of those who have earned so far on copyright fees. Not only journalists, translators, but also IT programmers with high added value and about 50 and some thousands of people will have 5 to 6 thousand per year of their work, but they have so far, which is about 250 million kuna per year. This is also about the same amount as we now have in this year more income tax than was planned. So there's no need for that either, and we swear on those people, we swear on those who want to offer their knowledge and brains on the market. I'm talking about a whole sector of IT that works very hard because all they do and program is their copyright, or intellectual property, and on the other hand we punish them. And that 50 and a few thousand people who do it or who make no big money, 4.5 thousand kuna a month, because that's not what someone told the great artists who make millions of kunas, but people who work for 5, 6 thousand kuna a month. And on this side there is no reason to even put extra burden on them and this is seen from this budget rebalancing because trends are positive because there is no need for what is going well for us to do it in some way to suppress or disable it. And I ask that by the next week when this debate is again and the second round, i.e. the second reading of income tax to take into account this data from this rebalancing because there is no reason to punish tourism and those who, I would say, are covered by copyright fees, those more than two of the best ministers in the Croatian government Mr. Cappelli and Mrs. Koržinek Obulen have the same positions as we do in the opposition. It should not look and concentrate closely only on its narrow party or other interest but should give support to those who create added value to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18695	We have four replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18696	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I understand your desire to court perhaps the new president of your party and so on and beyond the subject. In fact, you said at the outset that you were glad to see the general public watching this session because you received a message. At that moment when you said that sentence, you know how many of your members were here? Literally one, you co-worker, Sabina and Djujic, and that Mr. Djujic did, and a colleague of Sabina was just entering the assembly. So, you and another one. And you don't mind, you don't mind, but good is your right. From your 10 minutes you have only one minute devoted to the agenda point and this is the budget rebalance for 2016. Everything else you have dedicated to us all but also to you as a psychic, to a man who knows how to be on the agenda for the next week, who is ahead of us whether the next or the next one in front will then be seen, depending on the Croatian government. But I will only replicate that part, that minute you were talking about, you said it was because of the government of Mr. Milanovic and the merits of trends that are currently in Europe and so in our country and with those 50% of your sentences I absolutely agree. But I will remind you here that through the rebalancing report was mentioned and the Environmental Protection Fund which he sent as he sent for the first time since the fund existed sent it, and with these results, and with these results, Zmajlović explained in some way that they were doing a lot of work so that they created such a minus in the fund. Well, please, have the same tool once you've explained and spoken, even if it's a minute out of ten minutes as part of the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18697	Thank you, colleague Boban. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18698	Mr. Boban, you mentioned a psychic, that's a word, a foreign word, I don't know if you know it. There's a psychic in our house. So here's to future knowledge when you mention it. And he doesn't mean the one who knows everything by definition. So the seer isn't the kind of person who knows everything, so you mentioned it in the same non-binding sentence, and I'm asking you to focus on your speech, and you don't do it. On the other hand, I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18699	You're told to concentrate, not concentrate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18700	Thank you very much. I accept the suggestion of famous language expert Mr. Jandrokovic and I will use it in the future. On the other hand, I would like to warn you that in my speech I commended Mr. Capelli and Mrs. Koržinek Obulen, not Mr. Bernardic. I didn't mention him at all. I don't know why you're bringing him up in this whole debate. So I praise those ministers who fight for the population they represent in the Croatian government and give them credit. Well, that's not negative, is it? I know that it may not suit someone when we from the SDP commend someone but there are good ministers in the government of Mr. Plenkovic and I wish I could say that for Mr. Maric to suggest next week something that I think is just and logical as Mr. Cappelli and Mrs. Koržinek suggest. And I am glad that you also agree with me that the Government of Zoran Milanovic is responsible for this fulfillment and filling of the state budget and that economic trends are positive thanks to the work of 2014 and 2015 primarily of Croatian entrepreneurs, as well as the work of the Government of Zoran Milanovic. Here's the thing, I was really happy when you said that because I see that you at HDZ sometimes don't cause honesty. So here I am going to offer you to free yourselves in the future and give even more of the praises that are justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18701	Thank you. Dear colleague Branko Hrg replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18702	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you were the minister of those people, those small companies, businesses, craftsmen who remained in debt for the work they made on their promises because they weren't provided with money for it. Let me just tell you that. The Minister of crafts and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, because it might be okay for the minister to know that the board that's being placed in front of the building is written and the number of building permits and documents based on which it's being built, you can see it's not here, it's gone. You were talking about a social home, and in the pastry supply, he writes a home for the elderly and the powerless. You speak and confirm what was written on the networks that it was the money of the Environmental Protection Fund but that table of objects that passed the contest, there are no such objects. On the table of objections which were, the complainant means that those who complained in 112 places is the same municipality with that object that was rejected. I'm asking you now, Mr. Maras, how did you share the money? By what criteria, how? Did you have your cash register? You grabbed it and you just gave it, your colleague Zmajlović, you told him to give it to me upstairs I need it or somewhere else? That was certainly even more, this is just one small example. And I repeat nothing I said to the mayors of the municipality, he fights, he takes responsibility for it if he didn't do something. I ask you a question, you were a minister, you swore to obey the law, did you respect it here?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18703	Thank you, colleague Hrg. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18704	Well, the answer is very simple. Unlike the Renaissance HDZ boys, I respected him. And if that's the way it is, so look, since you like to explore and question yourself, I'm not an auditor, Mr. Hrg, so I'm not dealing with this information with this kind of passion and analysis, and I'm not dealing with it especially when it's not a direct part of my job. So I didn't investigate everything you're saying, but if you did, and if you think it's a bad thing, why don't you write down a report on what the problem is? I'll tell you about all the jobs I've done that I think I've done, not to think, but I'm convinced I've done by law and by law. During my term and the government of Zoran Milanovic, for example, the Regional Development Programme did not watch who is the head of the HDZ, HSS or HNS and SDP municipality. Here, ask the chiefs. I'm sorry that the captain of the city of Podravsky left now, to see, and you're the mayor. Oh, no? But I'm telling you about these who don't have anything, whose budgets are one million, two kunas, that appear on regional development programs, and that all are neatly rejected even from the HSS when you were president. Watch out for this paradox. The heads of Belgrade-Belova County's municipalities while you were president, all complained that they had been taken down by Minister Tolusic to get HDZ's money, and you were in the coalition. So are you uncomfortable with the fact that these municipalities that came to the projects didn't even get kunas because they weren't HDZ commissioners, and you were supporting two arms for Karamark. Not one, but two you raised, it seems to have twice as many of you. Oh, no? So that's it? Let's concentrate a little, Mr. Hrg. No wonder the HSS didn't trust you. Because of what you assume...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18705	Thank you very much. My colleague, I'd like to beg you, let's stick to the line. I'm looking out for everyone, and I'm looking out for you. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18706	Dear colleague, in your presentation you touched on the principles of subsidiarity and Prime Minister Plenkovic, and you mentioned my city of Zadar. Don't touch Zadar like that. Zadar is one, so little was mentioned in a negative context by you because of our mayor. Here I am taking the opportunity to congratulate my city today on the day of St. John's Day. Zadar is a cultural, historical city of valuable people. Unfortunately, in recent years on the Black Chronicle site for Mayor Calmeta. Two indictments in 14 days as a product of a long-standing malfeasance investigation from the minister's post. But here you can see now that Mr. Plenkovic, a few months ago at the HDZ Assembly, has gathered strength and thundered from the pay phone that HDZ cannot be the victim of a man's hostage, Tomislav Karamark. Tomislav Karamarko at that time, and today there's no charge. But you see, what Calmetti is allowed isn't Karamark. Presumption of innocence today applies to Calmeta, not to Karamark. HDZ couldn't be the hostage of Karamark, and today it could be the hostage of Calmete. And not just HDZ. It's easy for me for HDZ, it's easy for Zadar. The whole of Zadar is actually the hostage of one man. And today on the day of the city, the prize for life's work receives one great man, perhaps the greatest, one of the greatest in the history of the city of Zadar. This is Mr. Stanislav Antic, the legendary director of the SAS, who was elected mayor in 2001 by the wish of Zadar citizens, but Kalmeta and HDZ stole his election by buying Councilwoman Renato Peroš. And today this man is getting a life-form award, a man who is economical, in some way the economic renaissance of Zadar...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18707	Thank you very much. Replication response. Comrade Voter, I ask you to behave yourself. That's all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I still ask you for a grain of understanding when the sentence is in half, to make sense to be ten seconds, and I will now return those 10 seconds which Mrs. Voter has spent. Mrs. Voter, I didn't mention Zadar in a negative context. I love Zadar, I love Zadranka and Zadrana, and it's really a beautiful city. At the end of this year is one of the top destinations of Europeans by election of certain media, so on the other hand every honour of Zadar and that there are at least more cities like Zadar in the Republic of Croatia. I think we'd all be happy. But it made me uncomfortable when yesterday Mr. Plenkovic openly stood behind Mr. Calmeta. Sussidiary. So, you decide in the local HDZ whether you mind what Calmeta has two powerful indictments. Or my thing isn't at all. So on that side, he showed me one inconsistency and not enough strength for the Croatian prime minister to be fenced by those bad things no matter what it fits or doesn't fit the HDZ at that time. And you said it right. Karamarko's nowhere to be charged. He didn't exactly roar in Lisinski. Oh, no? It would have been good if Plenkovic had been thundering in Lisinski, but he said it very shyly there. I'm saying they almost gave him a hard-on, hard-on for HDZ delegates who are now clapping and asking questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18709	Comrade Maras, come on, let's get back to the subject first, that's one thing. And the other thing is, don't be a hero when there's not a man you're talking about here. It doesn't look very fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18710	Look, Mr. Jandrokovic, this is all a public speech. So all citizens of the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18711	Yeah, but first it has nothing to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18712	It's all right. Absolutely has to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18713	No, you're completely off topic right now and I'd like to ask you anyway to stick to the subject, especially since you're starting to set up now you're already really playing with people who aren't here, you're talking about them uglyly. I would ask you to return to the subject and talk about the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18714	It is, Mr. Jandrokovic, all public speaking. I'm telling everyone. So I'm saying de facto to everyone. It doesn't matter if someone's in the room or not, you can tell, and people know what I stand for. So it has a lot to do with the subject. And I said in my opening speech that because of what no more projects like traffic renaissance budget are well charged in 2016. So I put him on the subject I was talking about very nicely. And please. You took ten seconds from me. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you very much.]] Please let me say what I mean. [[/Intruder Jandrokovic: Here I return to you. Thank you very much.]] Well, that's the sense of a parliamentary representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18715	I always let you say what you're thinking, but I also said on many occasions that when someone gets a little off the subject and comes back it's okay. But when someone takes advantage of the replica by saying something that has nothing to do with the subject and repeats it many times then I think it's correct and it's my duty as chairman to warn him. So, please, no matter what you use style figures, that's fine, but if you turn the replica into a political speech that has nothing to do with the subject, I have to warn you. Angel Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18716	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. In your debate, you pointed out that at the time of the government of Zoran Milanovic, there was no view of which head or mayor belonged to which political option, or that they had all the same opportunities to report for the contest of the state-level resolution ministries. Here's what the contests looked like. Most of them were called or published on the official website of the ministry at night or night, some even at night at 22 hours. The conditions, which all documents are municipalities, cities should be collected and the time period to spending should be advised. And look at the wonders, the contest is announced in the evening, in the morning individual mayors and mayors stand before the ministry and carry their completed projects. These were really interesting competitions where some were obviously psychic and knew in advance what the conditions would be in these competitions. So it wasn't about political color at all, about party membership, but some of them were obviously psychic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18717	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18718	I don't know if I can answer that, because we could also comment on this as not keeping a strict topic, no, so what Mr. Strick said, but I'm going to risk you warning me. Mr. Strick, when you give examples like this, then don't speak in general, some, some, some contest, some commissioners, you have to speak specifically. Which chief was waiting for which project he appeared, which was announced at ten o'clock in the evening. I guarantee you here now I can't do it here I don't know what to put on the table I can put my parliamentary representation mandate that it wasn't any such case with me in the ministry. So you won't find a single project that was published at ten o'clock tomorrow morning that people showed up that it was closed in one day. My projects had a public debate a month earlier, and they were all more or less like it was through a public debate and it had a procedure that lasted for weeks. So don't talk to someone, someone, these, they give you specifically this one from this party, this project, and then you'll be serious. This way when you're hitting on someone no one takes it seriously. And I'm telling you one more time, find one of those contests that I've called and I'll resign tomorrow in this House. Here's a call for you, and so does Mr. Hrg, who I see has left if some surfer is watching, looking for it, looking for it to be interesting for him to do, if he finds any such contest, I resign tomorrow. So that's not what I had. So don't generalize first, and give the second one concrete things. Here's 20 seconds I'm giving in plus someone who's going to scold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18719	Thank you very much. Here's one thing we've solved in a time frame you're still when you start talking about the topic will be fine. Thank you very much. Now it is up to the distinguished colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18720	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the implementation of the budget for the first six months and the rebalancing. I think that both documents are positive that this year, regardless of all attempts to offend the work of hardworking people, is still positive and that simply some cannot reconcile with the results because they are much better now than they were in times when they had the chance to lead this country. But that's all right. And it's not bad to remember maybe what we've been through, so you're comparing and then say if we've done something wrong or not. Here is just for a reminder, the last financial year that passed without rebalancing was 2011, after which we had the budgets of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 budget and rebalancing, and in 2013 the budget and two rebalances, so in 2014 and two rebalances, 2015 budget and rebalancing, so ten times during the time of the former and large government we never understood these financial documents. What does that suggest in itself? It suggests that it was simply a matter of incompatibility, not having one solid line of functioning, not having firm attitudes that should then ensure prosperity, development, achievement of the fiscal objectives set and all other objectives that one such document can achieve. And I am fortunate to say that the people have got rid of these great ministers, such as Maras, Jakavina, Zmajlović, them and their hedonism and their knowledge because it is simply difficult to even make up for in this term. It's just that a man wonders why such people ever change when they knew so much, they were so smart and never understood. We adopted the 2016 budget in the third month and was Minister Zdravko Maric, then the promoter next to the second prime minister and now he is Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, the government has changed, but it still challenges him that it is not, that it is not the budget of continuity and that all the results of this budget are due to some SDP government that once again says, I repeat, the people simply did not understand. What was then said here in the debate, what Mr. Maric said so that we could compare ourselves with what the opposition is saying today? In the third month, he said we expect an economic growth of 2%, budget revenues of 69 billion, expenditures cut by 2.5 billion, deficits cut as much as possible, and at least 7.5 billion means being at that level, being the smallest ever since 2008 and keeping expenditures at 122 billion. On behalf of the SDP club then he spoke, if I remember correctly, the one who was named Zoran large in absentia, he spoke and what was he saying? Well, he said first of all that through that budget he didn't see the financial consolidation, that it would sink, that it would go to bad and that the people simply didn't know what he had chosen so that there wasn't enough money I don't know about student transportation, about ferry lines, that there would be no money for child benefits, that they would suffer the poorest. Mostly one message was, you made a bad budget in 2016 which is... ours from 2015, that's what they said here all the time, that's more or less everyone remembers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they compared in 2015, 2016, so they found it bad, and as theirs it was great, but good. And now who was right? Let's look at the results of what the finance minister said and what he said, I say SDP. And now we have a new government, a new structure we had to rebalance, we have an increase in economic growth from 2 to 2.6%. Incomes are higher by 1.5 billion kuna most in the share of profit and excise taxes. Budget deficit 1.6% instead of expected 2.6%. We have 1.8 more employees than in 2015. Tax revenue 71 billion, 2 billion more than expected, expenditure on interest rates less than 320 million kuna. So the total income of 116.4 billion, expenditures of 121.7 billion, deficits of 5.3 billion or 1.6% of GDP. Who made theirs come true? Well, according to me and anyone who wants to be honest, Minister Zdravko Maric has achieved with his knowledge, his way of doing what he writes then and what we are discussing here today. What else is very important? There was also a gradual reduction in public debt. What's the SDP doing? He's against it. So they don't want to admit that these are good results and I just say nothing is right for them because for their time everything was the opposite, the deficit grew, the public debt grew, the number of unemployed grew and they couldn't reconcile with one situation that's 'let's say decent in an economic environment in which the state works and simply because of all the relationships that happen today, they're very nervous, all morning long nervous. I think it was this very budget that showed that the financial policy, the finance policy of the Republic of Croatia could be managed differently, no matter who was the minister, i.e. who is ruling HDZ or SDP but that there are people who can do it differently from what we have witnessed in some former times without achieving and setting goals. When we look at divisions, the government of the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament, the president, they all cut their costs, it's a fact and it happens from budget to budget. Secondly, the increase in funds to local self-government and I am glad to say that at least this government solves some of the inherited problems created by the former government to give all municipalities in Gorski Kotar and others in mountain-mounted areas some of the funds that are visible in the budget and the amounts that are what they are but are certain aid than they were during 2015. We pay 200 million kuna less, I say, in the EU budget. When we look at the 2 departments that are always most interesting to me, the Regional Development Ministry in this year has a total of 880 million kuna. Let us compare this with the achievement of the Ministry of Regional Development in the past 2015 and we discussed it yesterday, and then 440 million kuna was realized. What we need more to add to that, I say, is the problems and a certain political instability that was still in progress this year, that the exact same amounts have been achieved because it shows that there are capable people who can work. In the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure we have a certain reduction of HRK 160 million, mainly from EU funds, i.e. EU funds that will not be realised but have been increased in part of Croatian roads by 60 million kuna for shipping lines added 35 million kuna. So we simply see that over the year, there is the possibility that many things can be done better, regardless of what I say, that some people can't deal with it because what we all have been tasked with is that out of our own experiences, knowledge we draw out the best that we can say in our powers to work on the benefit of the citizens who have chosen us on certain duties. This budget rebalance should certainly be supported, a tax reform that will very quickly come into second reading, and also the budget next year will show that there is a policy that has a clear objective, which has clear knowledge and which in 2017 will show that there are better results that will be achieved in a good 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18721	Thank you, too. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18722	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, you have injured Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks if the speaker gets away from the agenda topic, the President will warn him to stick to the agenda theme. And that's not the problem because you're one of the most tolerated presidents in this House and really watch out for it, but you just said that it's not nice to talk about people who aren't here and your colleague Boric's been talking about a man who hasn't been here for a month and a half, about a man who isn't here, about Zoran Milanovic, and I see, and every debate of him is about Mr Zoran Milanovic, and I see that he's missing him, but he's very contradictory of himself because he keeps saying that he didn't do anything and he's constantly quoting some of his work. So I'm glad you're still confirming that he's been doing something, but I'm asking you, Mr. President, just a uniform criterion like you normally do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18723	Thank you, too. So, I warned my colleague Maras, I didn't give him a warning because he spoke uglyly about someone, got into some things that weren't true, and this was one political assessment, that's all it was about. So I don't think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure on my part. We're moving on to replicas, dear colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In his Vehemental debate, Boric mentioned that it is good for man to learn from his experiences and acquired knowledge. I only hope that he will not learn from his experiences as assistant and State Secretary of Minister Calmeta because these are not the very knowledge with which a man should boast and hope that what he saw and what he learned should not be applied if he ever has an executive duty again in life. On the other hand, how many people they trust and what they think about whom, thank God for these elections is possible to measure preferential votes. Since you have questioned the confidence of my voters towards me, and as you believe very much, I will warn you that you have received 7 times less preferential votes than I have. So that's where you're being denied by the voters themselves again. Don't be a hero and judge other people if you're in that area quite thin and I'll tell you where you're still thin. In your municipality of Rab, in Lopar, the head of your municipality has great problems with the law. I think there's something to explain where several hundred thousand kunas went missing and he's not doing so well. So maybe start with your community, try to keep your colleagues there, and explain to them how they should behave and how they should lead their community. When you teach them, then I'll be happy to follow your advice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18725	Reply to the replica of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18726	But you didn't understand me very well. You've been talking about renaissance all the time and let's look at your goths Canovic, Smiljanec, Savo, Merzel, so what is it? That's the part you don't want to see. You always want to be the ones who judge others and the different ones. But I've been begging one of your members this morning to try to bring peace and order into your club because you're simply disoriented. Well, yours, if I'm not mistaken for the vice president of the club in absentia, Mr. Hajdash tells you you're a special person because you can't determine from 3 attempts what would be the highest rate at which income tax should be determined. So you say 48, this one says 40, the next one says something lower, this fourth one says we give it all up. So you have one fundamental problem with identity loss. But I'm still saying there's no lie or fraud that the SDP can get any election ahead of us. So not all of your lies about individuals, your trials in advance, pointing to God's mistakes that the judiciary has made, so they haven't escaped there, the problem is with those who have escaped and have done worse or harder things. So if it's normal in this country that someone for 250,000 kuna pays their aunt home from the budget and is a member of the SDP and gets nothing, that's the problem, that's the problem. And we point to justice and justice. I can't defend people if they're caught by the justice system, but they'll have to solve their own. But the problem is those who skip them. Even with you. So remember those journeys of yours, hundreds of thousands of kunas, so what did you do in those journeys? It's a good thing the people got rid of those and your hedonisms and your titles, and I repeat that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18727	Thank you very much. The second replica is a distinguished colleague of Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18728	You mentioned some envy of the SDP in your presentation several times according to the results of the 2016 revenue side of this budget. Well, I don't really know what we'd be jealous of, I don't know, I mean, in 2016, we witnessed to an experimental government that fell apart online after she agreed. In our short term, we have witnessed constant bickering across the media concerning the wave of staff issues and staffing around the Republic of Croatia at all levels. On the other hand, we have witnessed just as much a spotting of as much as 8 companies from the list of companies of special state interest, we have testified that the express phone sessions were being resolved or sold by Končar, so we have witnessed the prime minister, the one from Canada prime minister of his passion for caviar, so what in a few minutes actually eats two workers' salaries, so I don't know a game of state interests at least when we talk about MOL. Obviously, it's better if you didn't actually do a lot of work, you'd better be exhausting yourself with all this nonsense whose terror we've been through for seven months. Because when we look at the period from 2000 to 2003 we also had a similar situation where in 2003 you inherited a well-ordered state apparatus, and then you know what time of darkness continued after 2003, how many Croatia was robbed, who was involved? Among other things, your boss, Bozidar Carmet. So we're just going to see how you're going to treat what the government left you, according to order, according to increased GDP, and please don't, just save us the scenarios we've been looking at since 2003 and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18729	Thank you. Comrade Boric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18730	Thank you very much. You colleagues can say whatever you want but this man always beats you in Zadar whatever you say about him so that you may have resorted to the one way that you would like to eliminate him but surely one of you cannot judge in advance, nor will you judge people because something is because the indictment has been brought up or not. It's the only thing you do and the only thing you do. It's the only policy you have that's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18731	I'm asking you not to throw it out of the bench. Comrade Voter, I ask you indeed for courtesy. I already asked you once. Let's stick to the line, because it's the only way we can function. If everyone starts yelling, throwing, insulting themselves, then we won't even be able to work, so here you are. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18732	You and such a people simply don't need it, and I say to you, Bojidar Kalmeta, in Zadar, he's been winning for 20 years and he'll continue. And you go your way, and these are the criteria that vary from topic to topic. If Andro Vlahusic is involved, then he can with a conviction, if anyone else is or is from another party, then he can't. It will be resolved in the future and it is very good or it is important that you all stay here. Because I'm saying, I see you're very nervous today because apparently this party train, I guess already filled, the rear wagons are filled and difficult to jump into. Oh, no? And all this evidence I don't believe will work much on the future president, because here's one of your MPs today felt the need to say that you're not his company anymore, that you're so bad, and that you let him down that he had to get out of the SDP. You understand? And now you're all wondering why he did it? Well, the man realized you were bad company.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18733	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18734	A colleague, Boric, injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. He wasn't talking about the subject at all, he was teaching us what he was an expert on how to slip into a new party chief. Mr. Boric, I don't have that kind of affinity. I have my own attitude no matter who the boss is. I know that you sent footage to Mrs. Jadranki Kosor to prove your loyalty and justify some of your actions. But you don't have to teach us. There are people who have a spine and who do not need to serve every master, but work in the interests of citizens and parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18735	Come on, thanks. Now, you've abused the Rules of Procedure now, so please don't do that. We're moving on. Let's try to get back on the subject. Now you're accusing each other for no reason. Comrade Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18736	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you that the voters did not understand the success of Ministers in the Government of Zoran Milanovic, because if they understood then the result would be even more in favour of the Croatian Democratic Community in the 2015 and 2016 elections. But that's not why I wanted to say it. I signed up for the replica. When you spoke about the work of Mr. Zdravko Marić in the past year. I would, in that sense, remember the month of May when Minister Maric then went to London at the time of the political crisis in Croatia and sold shares, state bonds. And when given the interest that was then caused by such a crisis, he did not owe the Republic of Croatia but returned. And then when he returned to Croatia, we remember what the SDP was saying, all of which was said by the opposition at the time about how it was proof that Croatian finances were destroyed, that the situation in Croatia was catastrophic. And he just said let's wait for this time to pass and then he's in charge of the domestic market at never less interest. So, only this one move that Zdravko Maric made in May of the month and in June speaks about the capacitation of his administration, otherwise the Ministry of Finance, which during that time, and which shows the results of this rebalancing state budget sufficiently speaks for itself, the report for the first six months. Therefore, in that sense, I agree with you that this budget, this rebalancing, is very much to be supported. And I believe that the budget that will arrive very soon will also be on the trail of even better results in the work of this particular government that we now have.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18737	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18738	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, so I too, here all the time I say that one man can make a difference and these say others who are nervous they can't understand it or understand it, because for them it's still a policy that's worse for them. It's just some sort of guideline that I guess tomorrow they want to show up in front of voters and say here we are some sort of alternative, a disaster that will lead you to a better future. But I say, the people see all things, and the people remember all things, and the people know all things. These lies, these distinguished ladies, I don't want to comment at all, because they come down so low that sometimes I don't want to go down to that level myself. Because they say there's a... Everywhere and if you go down to their level, you might get brought down to your level and beat you with experience. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't want to, but as far as the credit rating is concerned, let's just say they've had him down twice in office. They celebrated it as great progress. For them, the fall was also growth, and of course they were looking forward to the moment when one determined man said I didn't want to, and I'll wait for a better time, because they saw a chance to bring down the government and that they would eventually take advantage of the cracks and return to power. But the people simply didn't want them twice because they offered the same team that came down from power in 2015. And today I say again that same team gives everyone lessons. The achievement of the budget, let's say this financial expert Mr. Maras in 2014 and 2015 was 50% at the level of his division at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship. And he gives everyone lessons about how to work and somehow help entrepreneurs, and spends 50% of the resources he has available, not to talk about another who worked even better than him about Mr. Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18739	Thank you very much. The next replica is an esteemed colleague of Angelko Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18740	My colleague Boric, so there have been a lot of stories about transparency, about how budget money is being spent, and this is what former Minister Mirela Holy, who was in the government of Zoran Milanovic, told us about at the beginning of the year in SDP's quota. So here's what former SDP minister Mirela Holly says. He says: "I was a minister when Zoran Milanovic asked me to see his brother. He gave him my number, so Cresso called me and we made an appointment. He was asking about renewable energy sources and two concrete projects. The first was the Pataft plant for mechanical and biological waste treatment in Varazdin, which was later purchased by Pripuz's company, and the second was the Channel... which I immediately said would not pass. Varazdin's bales of garbage are still a problem today, both environmental and health, obviously not a good person, so the Varazdins still have to suffer the ecological bomb today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18741	I would only pray that we really stick to the topic because we started talking about something else that had nothing to do with today's agenda and the people who are here on behalf of the government. So I'm calling you if it's possible to stick to the subject. A colleague, Ivan Šipić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's something on this trail that you just said I was just about to comment on. So the positive trends shown through this rebalancing are indicators that this government, however much it was at the beginning of the dispute, wants to focus Croatia on destroying all negative trends. The presence or absence of new deputies, especially those who report for parliamentary and media statistics, is defeating this House of Law. The debates that share us without arguments and quality will bring even more unrest and a bad picture of us all. Pulling out what's called a so-called extraction. The dirty material or movies and movies of mention are essentially prosecutors, the judges here from this House we've been listening to these days of all kinds of accusations, and in fact maybe we should just concentrate on what's ahead of us, which is the material that's been offered to us, one analysis, one quality analysis that doesn't need to confuse anyone who's made more, who's made less, but simply direct us towards what every voter or the average one who hasn't come out. So judging a government that has just begun, accusing it of this or that, I think it's below the level of serious people, especially those who don't sit here today and I sometimes miss, but don't participate in the debate, and use exclusively my five minutes to wake up in the morning I think it's very irresponsible and irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18743	Thank you, too. Replication response. Thank you very much, giving up, dear colleague Boric. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18744	Thank you, Vice President. Here I would like to look back in my debate on two topics that are important to my neighborhood, from which I come, and actually beyond. One of the topics is the units of local self-government that we often mention in the last few days here in the Parliament, which are the units that have run out of mountain-mounted status. In this budget rebalancing, they are somewhat refunded, but I would like to warn you of one fact, and that is that these units of local self-government have lost 102 million kuna in total when the income is collected, and they are now being paid back to this budget of only 10.9 million. So that's pretty little and let's say when we look at it individually when the calculation is made for the municipalities they don't know what the mayor of the municipality is going to think, say, Cerovlje who's going to get 7.433 kuna as some help. How much help this way, no one honestly may pay the bill for electricity in a municipality or a firehouse or something like that. We have made an amendment that we have referred to in the procedure and in which we have worked out the problem of all these municipalities and cities. You know what it would be like at home if you had certain receipts, planning your expenses, spending for the next year, and then just one day someone tells you, and from tomorrow you're no longer available 5,000 kunas, you've got 2,500 kunas at your disposal, and now you're dealing with all your loans and all the commitments you've already made. I don't think any of us would be comfortable, and this particular situation has happened to these municipalities that have lost their mountain-mounted status, so I'm appealing to consider the amendment and to see it and to really help them in a concrete way because I believe that according to some of the chiefs, they'll have a good laugh, except for the aforementioned head of the Cerovlje Municipality, which is the most characterized and we have, say, the Bistra Municipality that will get only 26,000 kuna. To help these municipalities a little better because they are still drivers and development and development of municipal infrastructure. And finally, when we talk about demographics so much, it means if the municipalities don't have their own infrastructure and if the municipalities won't be put together they'll just keep going and going to bigger cities, we'll have more and more Croatians that will be without residents, and unfortunately many will go out of state. Another thing I would like to look back on, which I have already mentioned when I was making this budget, and unfortunately there was no hearing about this situation are the slides that are defined in law as an elemental disaster. The rinks that appeared the most appeared in Krapina-Zagorje County and Varazdin County. In Krapina-Zagorje County, the estimated costs of the current existing rinks are 98 million kuna, in Varazdin County, 27 million kuna. On these slides that have formed, you know for yourself that every new rain, every new snow, every new change in the external conditions simply comes to an ever greater and greater collapse of the slide and the greater and greater damage. And let's say I got you this one picture of the house which is literally its foundations are already unearthed by the rink. I'm asking you right now, would any of you be comfortable living in a house like this? The other thing is that everyone says as it should solve the municipalities and cities where it happened, it's mostly a matter of municipalities and cities, and the next paradox is that these slides are the most actually happening in these municipalities that I mentioned earlier, so to the municipalities that have lost much of their budget. So I appeal to find some way like the floods in Gunja have been remedied and as other elemental disasters have been remedied to at least partially find the funds, to resuscitate at least those most dangerous slides because here all the roads are leaving, going home, it's just not safe for people to live in their houses that they built with building permits, with everything they had to do today, they don't have anywhere to live and every day they have a knife over their heads whether maybe behind this rain my house will go and I won't have anywhere to live anymore. We mentioned these things in the amendments and I appeal to the budget rebalancers and all of you MPs to ask yourselves and to think about it because the same way as in Gunja was the flood, people have lost their homes, and unfortunately that happens in us and the simple state has not yet shown their hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18745	Thank you very much. We have one replica, dear colleague, Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18746	You mentioned to your colleagues that out of these 10 million kunas of assistance given to the municipalities that some municipalities have a very small amount to receive, Cerovlje and the other I have not heard. What exactly is the original amount that they lost with earlier changes, do you know about Cerovlje?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18747	Excuse me, reply to the replica, just a little bit. [[So I have the information.]] Is there anything else you need to say to your colleague, Rostice?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18748	It specifically means the Cerovlje municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18749	Yeah. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18750	I don't know you specifically in the municipalities, I have the current data for all these municipalities together, so all the municipalities and cities of the numbered groups have lost 102 million kunas, and so they're all being renumbered 10.9 million kunas. Here's the ratio that's huge, but I can get you a very specific piece of information for the Cerovlje municipality so I can hand it over to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18751	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear colleague Milorad Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18752	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there's no minister, but I believe the associates are listening. So I'm not going to discuss the past in my debate, I'm going to try what's the goal of the budget or budget rebalance to see what's ahead of us. On behalf of the club, we expressed our opinion on macroeconomic indicators and trends that are positive for the benefit of all of us, but in this budget they cannot read and see it. For a short while, I'll look back at a few points. First of all, listening to the Prime Minister in the House, he called and argued and asked us to believe that this government would be credible, except I don't know what and how and how. With this rebalancing, I can't read it. First and foremost, we have repeatedly pointed out a problem which the state has taken on the obligation not to execute, it is about Varazdin County, the town of Koprivnica, as regards the obligation of the state to co-finance primary schools, secondary schools, halls, the total amount of about 15 million kuna. We also asked for a break in the Parliament through the media, people from local, regional self-government also came, but we don't see it in this rebalancing process. We have sent an amendment in the hope that this will be considered and that not only respect the obligations that the Republic of Croatia has made but also in some way consider the reality of it. In addition, when we talk about compensation or let's say in some way compensation for the lost funds of the local self-government unit have lost one law that is the same as these tax laws that the minister said would also be in some way compensation, there would be compensation, so we believed and we realized we shouldn't have believed. And now this rebalancing provides 10.9 million kuna, which is some 10% of what the local self-government units have lost, the same as a clumsy one, I would say by the bill. We think it's insufficient and I'm going to argue that on just two examples from my county. It is made of two JLS, one has 8 thousand 283 inhabitants, the town of Lepoglav and the municipality of Ljubješčica of a thousand 858. So in 2013 is a special state,... The status of hill-mountan and tax revenues they had income per capita 1391 kuna town of Lepoglav, the municipality of Ljubješčica 1539 as assisted areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 2013 was the basis for the calculation of this law which was clumsy, to come in 2015 the city of Lepoglava per capita has tax revenues combined, tax revenues 749 kuna, the municipality of Ljubestia 954. With current aid, the town of Lepoglav has 1350 kuna per capita, the municipality of Ljubješčica 2789 kuna income. And now we see in the draft budget rebalancing of the city of Lepoglava although it was not planned to receive support of 110 kuna per capita as compensation at the annual level of 913, 915 thousand kuna. Ljubješčica municipality receives 741 kuna per capita or an absolute amount of million 378. The index of development is a few percent up, down, opportunities of the municipality, status of the city, so that's, that's the assistant 670% difference. So what formula is that? I'd like to know, I'm going to ask a written question, I'm going to ask a written answer because I'm interested in the formula. And it's not the only case, there's a lot of cases like that. So I wonder if you will be credible, but on what basis and on what basis do you believe? Realising that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the local level are eager for justice, a far more just distribution of these funds. I wouldn't want to, I'll accept if there's a mistake in calculating because this has been done wrong. But if the formula by which this calculation is made, then the formula is unfair. I wouldn't want to suspect anything else. That by any chance you can imagine Ljubjesica in HDZ power, in the City of Lepoglav there is an HNS and it is not the only case. I wouldn't want to doubt it and I'll say that political corruption is at stake. Furthermore, the Environmental Protection Fund has been deleted from the nine million kuna plan to resuscitate the glide. An increase of 162 million kuna for the disposal of special categories of waste. Well, that's not me, I mean, I don't understand what special categories of waste are. And it increased 7.8 million kuna waste recovery and the use of valuable waste properties. Don't get me wrong, reading the Waste Act, these are illusions. These are illusions either tossing dust in the eyes or darkening something. Study the laws that define what waste is, what kind of waste is, believe me, this is suspiciously extreme. Furthermore, there were talks on increasing revenues from excise duty, and here I was also saying about that aspect that I did not get a response regarding the increase in the revenues of co-financing of 20 million kuna unclassified roads. Unfortunately, the minister doesn't need to know. But he could have been prepared for an answer or called someone. I learned from a colleague on the board 20 million kunas will go for the cleaning of snow for the winter service, that's what we got on the board where this topic was discussed. So again, I ask by what criteria? Whether only Gorski Kotar will win or receive all municipalities that have lost the status of assisted areas for which I certainly have. Let us be just, let us not be credible or remain credible because it is very symptomatic, I remember in 2004, so the Government of Ivo Sanader later The government of Jadranka Kosor, HDZ is always, always before the election whether the rebalancing, given the annual budget plan of this item, such positions can be checked by assistant ministers, you can make it very clear that Croatian roads, whether anything else has always been provided were funds that have not been shared transparently. I would like to believe that you will be credible but with some other principles, I would like to trust Minister Maric and we will see next week I hear that there will be a debate on tax laws on whether these things will be respected? I am sorry that he is not here to hear the debate and I would like to believe that this Croatian independent government will become more just to us and also that the Government will be fairer to Croatian citizens with its policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18753	We have three replicas. Dear colleague Josip Boric first.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18754	Thank you very much. Comrade Batinic, you are talking about justice and justice, and there may not be anything to say, but let's go back a little bit. You were the vice president of this house, we changed in 2014, late 2014. The Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, I see here you have proposed an amendment. Now you are talking about justice and suggest an amendment in which one municipality of Matulji is simply because in the mountainous mountainous area there is a budget of 50 million kuna in 2016 you add 3.5 million kuna that you think you should receive. And one municipality short 110 thousand kunas, same as you suggested. So a municipality that has a budget of maybe 2 or 3 million kuna. What made you agree to this amendment that exactly sums up 50 million kunas that we warned you about when the law was passed that would happen. And you're all ready to raise your hand for it and you said we'd get those areas back from the compensation fund. We saw the achievements in 2015 of 647 million from the 1 billion and 800 compensation fund that you all took. And that's where you interpreted the HNS policy that was supposed to be fair, credible completely from beginning to end. It means that you still choose the position or opposition and the way you behave when you're in power or when you're in opposition. Consistency requires equal solutions for all. We warned you that you were doing the wrong thing, and we're going to try to fix a lot of things and we said how in 2017, and we're going to get a budget for the debate, so we're going to see if it's going to be like this or not. But if it's right for you to add another 3.5 million kuna to someone with 2 million extra kunas, then that's not the best solution for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18755	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18756	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, if you were listening to the opening, I said I would not discuss the past, but in order for you to see the future, you must know the past. And I said we were wrong and I'm learning from my mistakes now. I didn't allocate funds, I didn't get a chance, but if I did, then it would certainly be transparent formulas or ways to do it. So what we've been going through, since I'm saying it wasn't clear to me was a formula and I explained in the debate that it's just amazing that there's such a difference between the two environments that are roughly similar to the approximately index of development and I can't even convince the minister that it's right, that it's true, maybe it's just and it doesn't have to be. But we've been going with the amendment in a way that all units that have lost mountain-mounted status have gone better, some weaker, so that each of them doesn't lose more than 25% of their income. That was let's say one linear approach to reducing income. We went with such an amendment. Now, as for what and how to do in the future, first of all we're all aware of, I believe that we're all a little bit more and deeper into this topic and the problem first of all this ranking towards the development index, I think we should deal with this urgently, under emergency. For any one for the 2017 budget, any ranking will be an even greater injustice unless indexation is done in an adequate manner. We even suggested that, until a reform of local self-government is made, until it is done simply to all units of local self-government that receive below 1500 kn tax revenue per capita to make it up to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18757	Thank you very much. Second replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Batinic, the fact that you have mentioned justice and right several times in the allocation of funds and that it should be removed from the party's reluctance of certain units of local self-government and watch the integrity and needs of local self-government units. I come from an island municipality for island opportunities well developed which over the past three years the government of which you have not received a single unit of June, not a single programme from the state budget, which I do not think now, in response to such behaviour, should continue after some party commitment, to share funds only to its own mayors, mayors and mayors, to the counties. However, I agree with you that it is necessary to respect both the needs and the willingness of the local self-government unit to prepare projects. And secondly, you mentioned the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency and certain illogicalities in the functioning of this fund. I would remind you, however, that the past six months we've been discussing a change in the head of the fund came about at the end of April, which means that the current head of that fund has been acting on the trust itself for two months, and something important in the functioning of that fund has not been able to change, without having inherited from the former fund manager against whom I have no major objections so as not to think that I am now accusing the former fund manager. I think he's also been working together and working on certain things. But here in those six months that we're discussing today the new director of this fund has come, the fund manager has come to me somewhere in May, so something important in the fund's policy couldn't change, not even in his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18759	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18760	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bačić, I'm not when I mentioned the fund, so I've read the figures and I see certain illogicalities in the cost-location process and I see certain illogicalities in increasing the amount, as a percentage of the plan. Rebalance can be a correction, this is the end of the year. It's perfectly understandable that we're doing rebalancing, but I don't understand what happened in the meantime. So that's it. But mostly if you are, and I believe you've positively understood my argument. So we have to define as clear a criterion as possible when it comes to state money. Because for that very reason, if these criteria are not transparent, if they are not visible, if they are not readable, then it comes to our expressing suspicion. I'd like to be proved to me exactly this 670% difference between these two municipalities, the city and the municipality. I'd like to know that. Maybe I'm wrong and I'm also willing to do the same if I misjudged and spoke publicly. But I don't know what exact math is, math is exact science and I don't know how it's possible. Justice and justice are two different concepts, but justice is something we all want. And then there's no doubt. And believe me, I have reason to doubt political corruption. Since 2005 when it was a set-up, we know until 2011 when to get support from the state budget, so please give it! That's what you're looking at. Was it like that? It's not. No, because just at the government of Zoran Milanovic they got, I know about my county regardless of the preferences of municipalities and cities. You can check and prove it. Whether it was just or not, I can't guarantee it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18761	Thank you. Third replica of the esteemed colleague Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18762	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague I usually appreciate you and your discussions and I agree with your attitudes to learn from mistakes and it's good to learn from mistakes. But I must remind you, when he was the man who led your party, the minister, the vice-president of the government, then the most money flowed into that county. And the assistant who was then, or deputy minister, was the most money poured into his county. It's kind of weird to me that we now have two different criteria when it comes to it. You often speak the concept of political corruption. Very brave of you. But you must remember, who doesn't know history has no perspective in the future. So, just some of your leaders had a problem with that. When you talk about rinks, the rink is a process. So that's my profession by chance. So it's not something that's happening today, it happened today. It's processes. Well, you've had your chance, you still have a chance at certain levels to solve it. I haven't seen any special solutions. You don't have to worry about whether we're credible or not, that's what the Croatian people recognized. And as far as I'm concerned, that's what I told you on the board, and I'll do it again. I'm a little upset when you're talking, I'm sorry there's no minister, so here's the secretary of state and the assistant. Are they then people who do not know anything, they cannot listen? Well, they're not the kind of people who are college boys and we talked about it on the council board. So I wouldn't have if I'd underestimated the people sitting here if I were you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18763	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18764	My colleague Mikulić. Thank you, Vice President. I didn't underestimate anyone by calling the minister, but you will certainly agree with me that the first man is the one and the debates are always directed towards him. Of course he's responsible. Furthermore, as you mentioned, the most money was poured into the county, etc. Well, I don't know, to be honest, I didn't do that analysis. Is it true? I'd love to, but I'm afraid not. But also when you mentioned, I don't know what projects you were thinking at the time it wasn't looking at whether he got a new Marof where HDZ was, she got... she got Vince, so it's equal to what those criteria are. And you also worked at the Ministry of Economy, so you might have more information if there were such things. As far as the rink, yes, these are the processes and the rinks we ran for were, it was a public call from the Croatian roads, I think it was somewhere in 2014. FOR the first time in 2014 a public call from the Croatian Roads for running. Why it's stuck, why it's not, is it because it's supposed to be co-financed from the Environment Fund, now I see that the funds, so the fact is then the government may not entirely know how to solve it. I agree, I also have experience as a forester where we are also in certain areas, I am not a builder, but I have contact with engineering and construction, etc., but we have run in the area of the Varazdin and Krapina-Zagorje County somewhere over 100 and some million kunas of projected rinks. You're looking at this ministry in that, all they do is wash their hands of it, and that's an elemental accident. The rest of Croatia are lucky to have no, may have other problems. So let's absolutely be fairer, and if we're just, we'll be credible and we'll get credibility if we don't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18765	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18766	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yesterday we had a report on the budget implementation for 2015 on the benches here and when I did a little analysis of the specific part relating to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and when we compare it to, for example, this half-yearly report on half-yearly execution, but also to the budget rebalance for 2016 then we can see when we talk about amounts and the plan that this situation is quite similar, 13.9 billion were the plan and in 2015 it came to a little more than 14 billion kuna. But if we look at the content of what happened with the distribution, then now we also have a proposal to redistribute the funds, then we see a very, very big difference between the programme's orientations of the two governments. The one who finished her term in 2015 and the one who started her mandate regardless of the second government being re-elected, but also this HDZ and MOST government in a similar way when we talk about coalition partners and the programming part, can be very clear how huge these differences are and how they are available with taxpayers' money. In 2015, for example, as regards European funds in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, absolutely everything that could be used was used. Why? Because at the end of 2014, this Croatian House adopted the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology and, in accordance with the action plan, there were already some measures that were to be initiated and that was to begin their implementation in 2015. One of them was the key but not the only one was a complete curricula reform. And then when you look at a little execution in 2015, then I will compare it to this execution of half-yearly 2016 and rebalancing 2016, and you can see that in 2015 it meant extremely strong work to establish a system of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, that a total of 8 sectoral councils were appointed, that the implementation of 30 projects of 64 million kuna funded by the ISF, which was the main objective of developing standards of interest and standards of qualifications that were then to be adapted to enrolment in the register itself, so that we had a very successful use of ISF funds to ensure each child's assistant in the teaching process, we encouraged associations for extra-institutional education, education of children and young people, even in the funds that had crossed the plan in some parts, which is not good yet, but rather than to save, or to break the items on some other costs that are not going to the final users, which are our students. So, in accordance with the plan, we started the professional training and education of students, teachers in secondary schools, the training for the implementation of national programmes in this case of curricula, so we had in the plan 7.5 million kunas, which was spent only 3 million kunas, so 4.5 million were returned at the end of 2015, and with only 3 million kunas, the expert working group and 500 people who worked on the curriculative reform actually produced what will be published in 2016, this is the framework of the national curricula and even 51 curricular document. Not to mention that the Agency for Education and Education has prepared our teachers, teachers and professional associates in parallel with this production of documents for what follows them in that part of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy and in the overall curricula reforms, but also in the licensing of teachers, teachers, professional associates and themselves directors. All this means the balance that was left at the end of 2015, things almost finished. When we talk about OP funds created, two means a key Operational Programme of Effective Human Potentials, which is the basis for us to withdraw funds from the European Social Fund and, on the other hand, an operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, which is a key basis for withdrawing funds from the European Development Fund. And then we come to 2016 and when we look at this half-yearly execution, when we look at the plan of rebalancing, when we compare all the sweet, colorful lies that were presented here first by Mr. Tim Oreshkovic and the other day from Mr. Plenkovic, we actually get to see that everything that in 2016 in the system of education, technology could stop, blow up or reverse everything has gone wrong, backward or stopped. Unfortunately, no chance has been missed here. So if you look at the funds now, you'll see that there's an increase compared to a plan of about 110 million, 110.7 million kuna, but if you see a little bit of what that structure is, then you'll see that in fact, in this increase 110 increase in universities and higher universities there's as much as 212 million kunas, which would mean actually if we take into account that unplanned regression, given that they've already been in the light of parliamentary elections and that the funds for paying off haven't been planned in general in the budget, we see that in the rebalancing process now we have to make up for the lowest part of the funds in primary and secondary education are actually going to pay or for this purpose and to go to universities and high schools, then we can conclude that something somewhere around 200 million kuna is actually damaged are the end users of the system. I don't mean, of course, nothing wrong with paying off the regress, but when you look at how the funds are allocated, then it's really scary. In 2016 it means 20, we have, simply reducing funds for professional training, education of teachers and teachers in secondary schools and training for the implementation of national programmes. Why? If it's promised here that full curricula reform goes on. These are still insufficient funds that were in the 2016 budget plan, we have warned of this, but are now further reducing funds. Also for the development of a quality assurance system, why the project stopped, for example, and why it is seen on the means here that it will not, it is obvious to give up the licensing of directors, teachers, teachers and professional associates. I expect a very quick bill here with one article in front of us where we will extend the licensing deadline probably in a year, two, three or four, which is very unserious. Capital investments are very much the same, in fact, in some ways I'm going to say threatened. The withdrawal of funds is catastrophic. So somewhere around 80 million kuna, only through the operational programme of human potential development, through priorities 2, 3, 4, through priority axes, 2, 3, 4 and 10 in primary and secondary schools, is not and will not be used for sloppyness, due to unworkableness and inability to prepare all those bases in the documentation that should have been prepared. The e-schools are also stopped, I don't know if they're now, we're detached, but we also see 80 million kunas being missed from European funds for the project and dynamics as imagined for e-schools. With regard to capital investment, science and technology are, of course, losers again, they were unfairly neglected at the 2016 budgeting itself and are now being taken again by 22.7 million kunas. As far as I am concerned as the people of Zadar County, what I can't support, can't possibly justify it, therefore, is that the funds are being reduced by 8.8 million kuna for the new port of Gazenica in Zadar, that there is still no correcting the injustice that has been done to our islands, so where, in the planning of the 2016 budget, the reduced resources for subsidising the water supply of the island are not corrected by this injustice or rebalancing. You took the University of Zadar with a budget of 25 million kuna, giving it back 2, very generously. There is little correction of injustice towards the incentives of regular maritime, passenger and high-speed routes but not to the extent that they have been abolished in 2016 compared to 2015. And scholarships also minus 2 million kuna. The capital investment of Sinj schools, we'll talk about it here when we get a new budget. It's still a crisis situation with that hole where there's supposed to be a hall and a school in Babina Greda, it's a matter of days when it's gonna escalate. The projects of the PPP and the completion of the Mocira Centre project for children and adults with special needs are still at risk. All in all, education and science remain losers through this rebalancing budget. I don't expect a better fate for them or for the 2017 budget, I'd like to be denied.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18767	Here's after this... We have three replicas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first replica of the esteemed colleague Mato Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18768	Dear fellow Voicer, I must say I haven't thought about replicating, but the fact that you said the withdrawal of the funds was disastrous has been offered me. I can't believe you said that because you probably remember how your colleague, Greek, explained to the Croatian public for 2.5 years that the Republic of Croatia cannot withdraw funds from the EU because the computer system is not operational. And you probably remember that it was the government led by the Kukurik coalition that withdrew at least the funds by comparing all those other countries that joined the EU during the first year of the term of office. And how we have actually paid more money for membership than we have withdrawn from EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18769	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18770	You obviously didn't listen to me, I was talking about the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry that you just mentioned was one of the most successful in withdrawing funds. It's just for your information that I'm still standing in the process of saying that what was done at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports towards creating a prerequisite and what we left in the legacy almost ended things in three quarters where you only had one quarter to end up being a disaster, an unforgivable disaster. The plan to develop vocational education and training, which is a prerequisite for all preconditions for the withdrawal of 80m euros and only from the ISF until 2020. He welcomed the Minister of Shustar, finished at 2nd month. You know when your government adopted him? You know when? Now the last session before we go to new ones or before there will be elections. So isn't that a disaster six months program that's got the European Commission's green light? Our professional cry schools for every kuna and euro we don't have in our budgets, you weren't able to put on government and open space to withdraw anything for vocational education in 2016. It is your horror, and you are not getting away with Greeks, but you are affecting Barisic not to continue with Shuster's path.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18771	Everything's gonna be fine. Don't worry. Another replica is distinguished counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18772	Thank you very much. I see that Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic has received a worthy replacement here in the Parliament. Well done. And I want to commend your part of the debate until the end of your trip to the islands. ... You're something we don't know about today, but simply the rebalance is the rebalancing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You don't have to get too excited because he's going to pass, he's positive, he's good, the numbers are fine I just wanted to correct that last part of you because you were Minister Jovanovic's assistant, I don't know why you resigned and left for a few days, not a few days before the end of the term, there was no reason for me at all, you were a good assistant and I see that you know a lot about this resort but this part of the islands. You know that always at the end of the year, the rebalancing of needs is in a way that can be spent and the water supply of the Adriatic islands is 10 million and will be spent 10 million. And there's nothing to add, it'll be enough. And we saw in one other item, say road transport cut by 2 million kuna, because 33 million will be quite enough. It's the same on these lines as ferry ships and ships. It took another 35 million kuna, why? Because we haven't been able to agree with the boaters on that famous fuel price they're using to create savings, but the regulation is saying something else, and we need to respect the regulation, and we're going to add 35 million, and it's going to be enough to pay everyone what they need to get. But that doesn't mean that now I don't know what has to happen, scare the islanders or some of the people of those islands that I don't know what's going to happen by the end of the year, like none of your predictions have happened in the past year, and this rebalance confirms that even when we've brought it in as a budget, we've been right and we've achieved much better results than we've predicted ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18773	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18774	How can I not get upset? How can I not get upset? Subsidies for over 20 years have been abolished for measures of active employment to young people, and you are campaigning and your President Colinda and you youngsters, we keep them in Croatia and then the first thing you do in the budget, and now you are not even fixing it, but you are boldly insisting on that poor decision not to give again, disabling these young people, first of all, from 29 years of age to even gain work experience through professional training without establishing a working relationship. Secondly, these poor people who are left right to 120 and no longer solve through the Employment Service don't even give a solution, you don't solve their status. Your phones are ringing in the field offices, the lines are on fire, and you know it, and not since yesterday, it's months. Secondly, you promised birth benefits and really in Croatia at least this where I'm moving in society a pretty good part of my acquaintances and my colleague stayed pregnant, I don't know if it affected them with your promise but if so you may be ashamed of how you cheated on people. Here they are now giving birth, giving birth, some giving birth to the other 1,000 kunas, and it is not that they are not, the euro pardons, the euro is even worse, and it is not that there are no funds in this rebalancing. And now you're telling me why I'm nervous? Because you're lying, which you're falsely promising, and then when you pull out that you've made a mistake in the budget, you haven't arrived, you haven't had time then you show through the rebalancing that it was a well-designed action and that they're simply lying to you in your blood. That's why I'm getting nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18775	Don't get so nervous. Hrvoje Zekanovic, a respected colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18776	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed fellow MPs here is interesting how almost every single one of you has to mention the reform of the curricula. Otherwise you do not use one word that is not Croatian, otherwise it is not a curicula but a curicula so try speaking Croatian if possible. You mentioned sloppyness, incompetence, you said that no budget items were actually carried out regarding curricula reform. You know best that you've just been involved in staffing the expert commission, i.e. expert working groups for the implementation of full reforms, you called it curricula. So if someone's guilty, it's just wrong of the commission that didn't do their job at the time. I still have to say something here that's not directly related to your exposure to the president isn't ours, you said yours, but I guess it's also yours. I'm guessing your colleagues and friends didn't give birth to children for 1,000 euros, because they wanted children. So here I am going to apologize on behalf of the previous government. And you had your own promises, too, so there was a plan 21 that ended up not being left with me thinking not even one. Thank you. Oh, he wasn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18777	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18778	You see that president of mine, but she's not acting like she's mine. She acts as if she is the president of only one part of Croatia, and I expect her to be the president of all Croatians and Croats and of course those who live among our dear colleagues of other nationalities, and they have found their House here in Croatia. That's the first one. Second. Curriculum. I'll repeat it. I'll repeat it. You know how long? Until the reform of the education system is implemented, and whose key part is the curricula reform. And I'll speak curicula, and you speak curicula. This is one of the causes of many problems why these problems have failed. You know exactly what I'm talking about. And even if I wanted to, I couldn't frame the members of the task force, there were over 500 of them, so that story was completely missed. Do not read DAY.hr they are misinforming you. And here's what I expect from you because I think you're good with Deputy Slezack, here's to appeal to him, that he influences Minister Barisic as a deputy and that he says that these people who are promised to continue the full curricula reform are still waiting for that promised invitation to include them, to return them. They haven't met him yet, so here's the clear way to go through the deputy to the minister and say the call is expected, there's no call yet. So things are still standing, nothing is moving, and the reform has been stopped for ideological reasons not this side of the assembly, but not even this whole one, but a small part of the right side of the assembly if we look at it as vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18779	Thank you. We have two more individual discussions. She is the first to be honored colleague of Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18780	Thank you, Vice President, here is the minister, the distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So we have the first year in which public debt is reduced and growth is realized. And those are the facts, and I have to give my commendation at first. So we have positive movements on the domestic economy. Somehow, it seems to me that before the end of this debate it is forgotten, we have a 2.7% GDP growth in the first half, positive developments in industrial production, trade in large and small, tourism and construction. We have a lower unemployment rate. And what we see in this half-yearly report is real savings. As I said yesterday, what we presented in 2015 as savings was not actually savings, it was less invested, and when we look at certain items we did not actually use EU funds. It's a clear indicator, and what I see this year, we see a clear growth in investment and real savings. The savings really come true if, if the lower expenditures are material, if less representations, if we have less interest costs, if we have less cost of financial services. Savings shall not mean a reduction in the cost of non-financial assets. In 2015, we even missed 2 billion of our plans compared to what was achieved. We see that the plan was significantly more realistic than the one in 2015, and 25.9. was even made a rebalancing, so what was planned was very deviating and these are facts. It is realistic that despite the circumstances, this technical government has planned a much better budget and the fact is that we can thank the same minister and the technical government and this new government. I also need to express my concern, I hope that plans, information and the introduction of technical systems in Parliament and Government will be implemented in 2016. We're seeing a little less execution here than the plan. And what makes me happy is that this budget shows the use of individual EU funds. So in half a year more than it's been all year. This is clearly seen in the cost of obtaining non-financial assets. In the situation when people leave Croatia, I am very pleased, meaning that the plans for the exploitation of the operational programme of human potential are meant to be reached, and in the field indeed there was support for municipalities and cities. And here we have new plans and help especially mountain-mounted areas. The expenditure on subsidies made in the first half are 3.7 billion kuna, and the most significant one is in this part of 2 and a half billion kuna as regards agricultural subsidies expenditure. If we know that this amount is available to us annually through the programme, this government, through direct payments in agriculture and through rural development measures, has managed to take advantage of what is available to us annually from the rural development programme, and this promises us in half a year. And we do, so we can believe that it's going to make up for what wasn't used in 2015. I am expressing concerns about a very lower execution than the planned technical assistance item at the Agricultural Payments Agency. And I commend what is evident that the planned dynamics have also gone through the implementation of the IPA Adriatic Holist programme, meaning integrated protection against forest fires involving my county. And of course, all of these expenditures, so they show that really, if they were smaller, they wouldn't have been savings and they're showing up on total incomes that grew as much as 10.5%.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18781	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear comrade Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18782	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Rosčić, you have now determined that your budget was realistically planned and even, compared it with the Government of 2015. However, I ask you that if you have a budget change ahead of you to look at the state of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts so as to comment on how only 53% of the funds planned have been spent, and more than half a billion kuna in one of the most important resolutions the government has not spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18783	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18784	I've compared my colleague's actual numbers, and as far as execution is concerned, in fact, from plan 53, that means that we can reach our plans with a half-yearly report. I don't know exactly what item you mentioned. I was talking about a specific one, so I'm talking about agriculture. The item means through state subsidies, specifically means direct payments and rural development measures, so I don't know exactly what you looked at in my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18785	Thank you. Last individual debate, imported colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18786	Thank you, Chairman. Here's the last one in this wheel. I'd like to look first at this language debate that intrigued me. Namely, counterpart Glasovac said that the use of curricula is a Latin name and she correctly cited it, a colleague said it should be translated as a curicula, but the Standard Croatian Language Council does not accept such a translation, so he is wrong. A good translation is a scientific basis or a teaching manual. Therefore, if we want to speak in standard Croatian, we should use those names from now on. Secondly, I would like to take a brief look at the analysis of this budget of some details that might not be highlighted at all times, but which I think might still need to be mentioned. In an analysis of these costs, as I mentioned earlier, we see that the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship spent only 53% of the planned funds, and now I would like to ask this technological government led by Tim Oreshkovic, and Minister Maric was a prominent person, how is it possible that such means were not spent? Here, some of the items, for example, interest subsidies for corporate loans of $11 million, have not been spent. Operational programme of human potential efficiency Guarantee for young people planned 9 million kuna, spent zero kuna. Competitiveness and cohesion programme planned 250 million kunas spent only 76 or 30%, implementation of measures to boost investments of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen 5 million kuna remained neutral. Strategy for the development of debt entrepreneurship and Cluster Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia spent zero kuna. The small economy's central information system spent 22% of its resources. And then suddenly the reconstruction of the rolling stock was spent as planned. Then we have a Regional and Innovation Fund spent only 14% of the resources. The Eurostars programme only 31% of the funds, the Eureka programme only 14% of the funds, the Competitiveness and Cohesion programme individual guarantees without subsidies and interest rates spent only 35% of the funds, the Competitiveness and Cohesion programme small loans well not, but the Enterprise Capital Project for Innovation and Entrepreneurship planned 6 million kuna, spent 184 or 2%. So just tell me, did the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts do anything in this 2016, and if we have the right to declare such a government successful and in general talk about some kind of cost reduction big when we see that half a billion kunas reportedly have not actually been spent according to plan, it was nothing. That would be practically anyone to cancel the salaries so let's say look, now we've saved 10 billion kunas. We also see that many of these programmes have not been implemented either in the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education, which was already spoken of by MP Glasovac, they have been implemented in the sense that by one 200 and some million increases in budget, but only when wages or similar costs were raised. But let's say programmes such as Encouragement to organisations for extra-institutional education and education of children and young people 2 million kunas are not spent, then we have the promotion of extracurricular activities in secondary schools and higher education minus, professional training and education of teachers and teachers in secondary schools, and also, the scholarship of regular students and scientific training of funds remained neutral, capital investment in primary education funds remained neutral. So we see that in fact many valuable programmes have not been implemented even though the funds have been planned and the effectiveness of this government cannot be assessed as successful. I would also like to say one last detail when I have already started the details, which is that in this 400-page document there are many items for which the amount of the thousand kuna budget is planned. And now we're reading these bizarre things, for example. A thousand kunas are planned for the bee pasha cadastre, a thousand kunas for a panel of seasonal analysis of olive oil, a thousand kunas for the prevention of drug abuse, a thousand kunas for the selection of judicial practitioners, a thousand kunas for training judicial practitioners. Please tell me, Mr. Maric, what can be established for a thousand kuna? What kind of bees you've got down here in the square is one 200 beekeepers, what kind of bees you'll put in place for a thousand kuna, and most importantly, none of this item has been realized. So it stands in the budget simply to sort of mock the seriousness of such a valuable document. So either delete these items or simply raise them to some reasonable amount of at least 5,000 kuna to make it look like something because you too know very well that a thousand kuna is therefore with a thousand kuna you can survive for a week and that is it, and at a national level simply nothing serious can be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18787	Thank you, comrade Bunjac. We have five replicas. He is the first of his distinguished colleagues, Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18788	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Comrade Bunjac, I don't know if you can hear her now that you have headphones or if you're listening to something else? ... And great, good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's the thing, Latin you don't know, I taught him, I know him badly, but some people know, so this is what the Latin word curiculum says in Croatian translates, for example. in the works of Tome of the Aquine period of time or time cycle, in medieval writers over time period. In the works of Marko Marulić race, run, run, run, racetrack, track. At the end of the 17th century it is used exclusively for racing and running, at the end of the 18th century course, running, running, racing and racing. So I think that, I know that it's hard for you and your colleagues to speak Croatian, so this is no longer a Parliament, this is a congregation, but here's an effort. So the Croatian word is curicula, the Latin word curiculum cannot be used because in Croatian it is not usual to use Latin names for Croatian words and the mind is a Latin extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18789	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18790	Thank you, dear colleague. So here's how you teach me Latin. I'm usually a doctor of historical science, I studied Latin and Greek, I've translated old Croatian cartels and documents almost 1,000 years old, I'm glad you've now taught me these language grounds. However, I have called for a report by the Council on the Croatian Standard Language Standards, where better experts must be sitting than any parliamentary representative. And this second part you told me about the assembly, the congregation is a Croatian word. So you'll always have an election assembly for any association, for any one. So the Founding Assembly, that's what it's called. It is the same as some have tried to say that I do not know healthy is not a Croatian word, although I do not know how we all greet healthy Mary on certain occasions, etc., so the assembly is a Croatian word. And if you are alluding to Mr. Pernar, he simply spoke of the congregation as one body and was not naive enough to call the Croatian Parliament a congregation. So, basically, if you are already studying the Croatian language to get good information first so that you can achieve a high level of its use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18791	Thank you very much. The debate is very interesting, but it really has nothing to do with what we're supposed to discuss today, so I'm asking you to stick to the subject. The second is the distinguished colleague Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18792	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I have to disappoint you both that it's neither curicula nor curicula, but it was about the manual. If we want to stick to the Croatian language culture and traditions dating back to the century 9th, then we need to know that in Croatia language culture, language cleanliness is normal and dominant and that we should not talk about curricula or curicula, but about the guide. Since you also mentioned the Council for the Croatian Standard Language Standard, which was established in 2005, it should also be mentioned that it was abolished in 2012 and that it was abolished by Minister Jovanovic himself. At the head of the Council, Croatian linguists were also known and were, in fact, an advisory service related to the production of spelling and spelling issues. However, it was docked in 2012. And when we talk about Latinisms that are taken over in Croatian, then they are taken over without suffix – um, so as a curicula and since we have our beautiful Croatian words, then I see no reason why it should be a curicula and not a guide.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18793	Comrade Buric, thank you for not listening to me, because I have learned so much. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18794	I thank my colleague, namely, you didn't listen to me very well, I said that the manual or the scientific basis. So these are two terms that are offered as substitutes, and that's what they're supposed to be. So we should actually talk about the reform of the manual, i.e. the reform of the scientific instruction. And I don't see any conflict between what you said and what I said. I don't know, maybe we should just take this opportunity to hire a good lecturer at the Croatian Assembly who will participate in such discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18795	Thank you. The third replica is a distinguished colleague of Sabina Vosovac. Just don't worry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18796	Yes, there is, we came here from rebalan and from numbers to language and to letters, there are people who prefer numbers more and here are those of us who love letters. So I'll just keep going for a little while in that tone. My colleague Bunjac, I agree with you, the guide, yes, that is a true Croatian word. But this fetish that this curicula turns into a curicula reminds me of that fetish that a constant clutch is added to the sport and that it turns into a sport, here it is to me at that level, that from the curiculum to the curicula it is to my directly fetish that sports makes it a sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18797	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18798	If essentially, a curicula, a curicula, a manual or a scientific basis, the most important thing would be to carry out a good reform. And it should be content and language issues should be upgrades. However, we do not need to ignore any language issues either, if we are not here to advocate and for this real standard Croatian language, which is ultimately legaled here in 1847 after a difficult fight and after human sacrifices, then there is really no future for that Croatian language. Therefore, we are actually going to implement the reform, and then we are going to end up agreeing on how to use the Croatian language correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18799	Thank you. Now it's the honorary colleague Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18800	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I will move away from Croatian Latin expressions and return to the topic. The esteemed colleague of Bunjac here has been listed for some things in the budget rebalancing that have not been carried out selectively. And I'm going to tell you because over the course of here, how long we've forgotten what this rebalancing is all about, so I'm going to remind you once more before the end. You were talking about the expense he failed for about 0.7 billion as far as I understood. Well, Mr. Minister also explained, we had a technical rather than a technological government, and it's understandable that some projects, some contracts couldn't be made and worked out. But what is important and what I particularly want to highlight for the end of this debate today is the income very few who have talked about here that has increased by 1.5 billion kuna. And that's what's commendable, that's what the trend is now thank God and in Croatia, that's what Mr. Minister emphasized from 1.9 so if God is to come to 2.6 or 2.7 by the end of the year or even more important the overall deficit of the Republic of Croatia will be almost for somewhere below 85 billion as I understand it and at the very beginning of this year there was something below 85% and at the beginning of this year over 86.4% was that total deficit of the Republic of Croatia. And it's a taste of today's debate, it should be a taste of our thinking how, finally, for these or those reasons that we can deal with through discussions, talk to each other, but it's the fact that this is a trend of the Republic of Croatia, and that this revenue side this year has increased by 1.5 billion compared to the planned budget this year. And that's what's most important in everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18801	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18802	Thank you, dear colleague. I didn't mean that, I wasn't equating the technological and technical government, but I wanted to say that the Prime Minister was the manager, that it was a man who had no electoral legitimacy, so I wanted to say in this way what kind of government it was. You, of course, have the right to say that budget revenues have increased, but this government has no particular merit for it. I want to assure you firmly that given the trends in the Croatian environment and the fall in energy prices, any government would have increased these revenues very simply. These revenues should be seen in the light of an 8-year fall, and simply if you know some basics of the economy, you know that no economy has a continuous decline, no economy has continued growth. So that's basically one curve where you have periods of decline and period of growth, and it was logical that after 8 years of any of the say-so-favourable trends outside, there is a growth of GDP. However, the growth of GDP that this government has achieved is very fragile, we saw, among other things, yesterday, with a lawsuit of unions as much as it is, what dangers everything threatens these growth assessments. In fact, this GDP should be assessed as being successful, as it will be in the spring of 2018 when we survive next year when much of the debt comes, and on the other hand, growth has to go to a minimum of 3% and my opinion is that it has to move around 5% in order to undo all the negative effects of a deep recession that the Croatian state has undergone partly thanks to the economic crisis in the world but, unfortunately, thanks to domestic policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18803	Thank you very much. And the last replica of today's distinguished colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18804	Thank you very much. In your debate, you referred to planning and achieving certain details in that budget, you found them somewhere, you said them all in a way and found that because of that, the government was not successful, rebalancing or the budget was not achieved properly. And it can really look that way. Let's just say you as members of the Living Wall or how we can't evaluate the party in anything, there's no written document behind you. So let's see your planning skills so let's say here's something you wrote, it's good, it's bad on the left and on the right. It's just that all you say is your only activity and all that goes into some kind of air is the only thing that records it, I guess, a phonogram. But let's say we can compare you, you were planning the same thing when you entered the pre-election or election process, you were probably planning on being many. After the election, there were eight of you on election night, then it seemed quite different until the first session was you I don't know two, one, one, four so it went that way. And today we see that there are now only three or two of you in the Living Wall. It means that good plans go wrong sometimes whether you know or not you can plan. For me, there's a wall that's some sort of building association. And I think if you keep this up, it'll be very easy for you to have the Living Wall on two bricks, say on you and on your colleague, Sincic, because I see that Mr. Pernar went to another party. I think we still need to see some of your documents so we can know if what you're saying is always just as accurate and correct in relation to everything you're suggested on either the left or the right or on any other side. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18805	No, there's only left and there's no right. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18806	So thank you Mr. Boric for following us so well. We'll hire him as an analyst in the party first time it's possible. In fact, you, Mr. Boric, would like the living wall to fall apart. You've hired all the media that exist, the resources, I don't know the judiciary and the police. However, we were the coalition "the only option". The single option coalition also lost one MP, still has 7 MPs. Not a single member of the "One option" coalition has stepped forward and we will go to local elections together and there you will again lose one piece of the percentage of the vote on your misfortune, and we are continuing to grow. We started at zero. Let's start a party with zero kunas in your pocket and come to seven and a half percent and join the Assembly with eight MPs. You've come nicely to HDZ, you've been nicely tattooed. I guarantee you, Mr. Boric, that you run on your own in the elections so you don't get 0.5% of the vote, and at least you'd get in from the last place on the list as Mr. Pernar entered. We keep our promise. You know, we said we're not going to co-ordinate with either SDP or HDZ, and be firmly convinced that we're not going to co-ordinate with your party to offer us any money, and you're also chasing us as deer hunters, and we're not going to co-ordinate with you. Therefore, accept that we are where we are, so deal with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, and we will also try to do our job the best we can and be firmly convinced I guarantee you that we will do it very well. I'll see you in May next year in the new election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18807	Thank you. We won't give you any money, nor will we hunt you down like a deer. You can do your job, so, on behalf of the HDZ. Here it is. This is what we came to the end of this debate. I'm locking her up now. Respecting Article 212. The Rules of Procedure on Amendments, Amendments and Budget Supplements will be voted upon when the conditions are met. That means within three days, because we can't vote, at least three days. So next week. Tomorrow we will continue at 9 o'clock and 30 minutes Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016, second reading, P.Z. No. 33. And the vote we have on Fridays as usual at 12:00. Thank you very much, and I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-24-0.u18808	The next item is the proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2016 and the proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2016 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2016. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes 87 for, 22 abstentions and 1 against the adoption of a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2016. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the basis of the provisions of Article 111, Budget law 1. I am voting on the decision to give consent to the half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters financial plan for the first half of 2016. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 82 for, 28 abstentions and 1 against decisions. 2. I am voting on the decision to give consent to the half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for the first half of 2016. Please, let's get involved and vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote is 82 for, 27 abstentions 2 against decisions made by the Committee. 3. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the half-yearly report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for the first half of 2016. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes 81 for, 22 abstentions and 8 against decisions made. 4. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the half-yearly report on the implementation of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund's financial plan for the first half of 2016. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote is 81 for, 18 abstentions and 12 against the decision-making. 5. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the half-yearly report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for the first half of 2016. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 82 for, 20 abstentions and 10 against decisions. I am voting on the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute for the first half of 2016. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 82, 20 abstentions and 10 against decisions. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the basis of the provisions of Article 9(1), The fiscal liability law and Article 16(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. Regulation on the establishment and transmission of a declaration of fiscal responsibility and of a report on the application of fiscal rules. I am voting on a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2016. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes were 82, 24 abstentions and 6 against a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2016.
