ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7233	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I'm looking for a ten-minute break. In fact, we would like to explain our position on the shift of management in trade societies of special state interest or strategic companies that were taken without a government decision. The government is so much of an important decision, for example. The decision on strategic companies and companies of special state interest and on the trust or mistrust of the first president was taken by the Deputy Prime Minister at telephone sessions, and we wonder whether the Government can now make decisions not only at regular sessions but also at telephones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7234	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7235	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We're looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club. Liberal Democrats of ten minutes. The topic is educational reform and we want to talk from this pay phone, our position on this and the future of our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7236	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7237	I'm also asking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Labourist to point out an attempt to euthanize curriculum or educational reform with various maneuvers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7238	Thank you. Dear Representative Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to explain what happened about a regulation that determines the appointment of leaders in state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7240	Thank you. I can't see my hands. And here you are, on behalf of the Most, Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7241	I'm looking for a break in the same thing about curriculative reform and the attitude of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7242	Thank you. That'll be all. Thank you. So I'll see you at 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7244	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Three weeks ago, the SDP requested the resignation of Tomislav Karamark as it proved that he and many of his HDZ colleagues had previously put their private interest ahead of the public. We have announced that unless he resigns, we will initiate his recall procedure as we have done. Today, his call for his resignation will be repeated, but not just because of a whole series of new information coming out daily and indicating the degree of abuse of office by the first Deputy Prime Minister but also because of the fact that his behavior, his conduct, [[The incursion president: Sorry, sorry the topic announced was different.]] and his neglect led to full paralysis by the authorities and threatened to stop the path of recovery [[Adversity President: A colleague of the coat of arms, a colleague of the coat of arms...]] which Croatia is going to. [[The theme your club announced was different. I'm asking you to talk about the subject.]] My colleagues and colleagues, scholarships don't pay off. There won't be any social assistance from tomorrow. The curricula reform has been stopped. [[The incursion of the president: fellow coat of arms.]] The European Union is now moving against us on a weekly basis because of the non-implementation of European law. Business optimism is dropping. Gentlemen of the 15 held government 6 sessions were your phone [[What is this? What is this?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7245	.../Invader President: I warn you of a colleague of the coat of arms. You are talking about a topic you have not announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7246	Gentlemen of the 15 held government 6 sessions were your phone [[What is this? What is this?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7247	I'm taking the word of a colleague of the coat of arms for the second time. Comrade coat of arms, please leave the room. And you as a lawyer, you as a lawyer to violate the Rules of Procedure. That's amazing! It is truly amazing that you, as a lawyer and in the previous meeting, are in violation of the Rules of Procedure of our Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. The next word was requested by the esteemed representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go. Yeah, I'm sorry. I have to give the Rules of Procedure a break. First honorary representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7249	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, usually a break on behalf of the club at the beginning of the session was asked to highlight some topic and usually the representatives discussed it. I don't understand why my colleagues from the SDP if they wanted to talk about one topic did not ask for a break on the subject. And it wouldn't be any question at all. It is tragic that this is done by a colleague of the coat of arms who was also president of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, who clearly knows how to behave in this high House. However, it is obvious that someone cannot accept that he can no longer do what he wants in the Croatian Parliament for the past four years. Therefore, it is not at all disputed because of the Croatian public that the SDP colleagues asked for a break and that they talked about it. However, colleagues from the SDP requested a break on a completely different topic. Because probably if they asked for a break on this one, then other clubs would probably come forward, not like this, to do what they do and then leave the session like this, and now they're going to say that they're being harassed by someone in this High House.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7250	Comrade Shuker, I agree with you. That's exactly why I warned one, twice a colleague of the coat of arms to talk about the subject his club announced. He didn't pay any attention to that. Of course, he's right, but he can't ignore what the chairman is saying and he can't act like the chairman doesn't exist here. He insisted on breaking the Rules of Procedure and I gave him a proper disciplinary measure. So now I'm going to ask my colleague, Anka Mrak Taritash, the distinguished representative to present on behalf of the CNS the position of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7251	Thank you very much. The HNS requested a break in education reform or curricular reform. I hope that the esteemed president and colleagues and colleagues will not mind me, to abuse this place with one sentence and today to all my fellow citizens and fellow citizens, congratulating the Day of the City of Zagreb. And now the theme is the theme. So what's very interesting and what I had the opportunity to read some ten days ago in our concept is Japanese culture is one of the very strict cultures. And before the king of Japan, the king is worshipped by all but teachers, and teachers do not have a gift before the king of Japan for one simple reason because they, the emperors of Japan, need to teach them. When it comes to education reform, I believe that there is no one in this assembly and this Croatia whether they sit on the right side, left side or centrally who does not want a better future for Croatia, who do not want a better future for our children, who do not want a better system and education for our children. For what reason? Kids today of three years when you give them a cell phone if it's not touch screen he returns that phone because only touch screens are played. What does that mean? This means that processes happen quickly, that education-related processes go extremely quickly, and we go slowly and it's unacceptable. Likewise, when I was a resolute minister of construction, I spoke to colleagues about reforming secondary schools and education of children who are educated in crafts and activities related to construction. There's one education, one job, the job of a carpenter. The carpenter's job is one of the most demanding jobs and will always be. Tesare will never be able to replace the computer. But imagine when a young boy comes out and tells the girl, she asks him what school you go to and he says about the carpenter. She'll turn her head more or less. But imagine if I were to say I'm going for the constructor of wooden structures. It's a little something, and it means a lot. Slovenia began its reform in '96. In 2011, Montenegro has a new system and new reform. And what did we do? As with us, we go very hard, and then we stop on the way. We started reforming in 2000, and then the reform was, and somewhere in 2003, it stopped. Why 2003? Well, because our reforms happen exactly in kind of cycles of 3.4 years, so as the government changes, then the reform stops or moves on. Then we had the same thing from 2003 to 2009, and it was finished with today's curriculum and the basic school program. So now we've started reforming again. This reform has caused a real public storm. But let's see where we are. There's a system that values child education at the age of 15. The system worked in 65 countries, and of these 65 countries, the result was that the mathematical literacy of children with 15 years of age in Croatia was 40th. Yes, natural literacy is 34th place, a reader at 35th and a financial literacy from 18 rated countries to 14. And that means your alarm's already gone from that bright red to red one. That means something needs to be done. What is the objective of this reform? The aim of this reform is about education, related to the fact that our children who are educated have a more beneficial and meaningful education in line with their development age and interests, everyday life, and to train them for modern life, the world of work and the continuation of education. So whether someone in this assembly is sitting on the right, left, or center, there is no one who does not want a better future for our country. And so I think, in relation to this reform, that an opportunity can be given to move on, to go into public debate, to be well analysed. When you do something, you have two methodologies. One methodology to do something and strive for perfection, another methodology is to say we stop at one hour, go into real life, and the results of real lives will be to improve all of that. So I pray for the voice of reason for all of us and allow this reform to go into real life and then we will work on it in the way it will be needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7252	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists, the next word will be taken by the esteemed representative Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7253	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to look back on a few words on education reform, a curricular reform threatened by a euthanasia, that is to say in some way divorce and that this reform is nothing. In the theory of ideas, there is one convenient audit rule that says, "The movement is everything, the goal is nothing." That means we all advocate curricula reform, no one says we shouldn't, no one says they won't eat it, and here we finally hear our President, Mrs. Kitarovic, speaking in favour of the reform, but actually late Marko is coming to Kosovo, she should have said it clearly long ago. It's not the devil that she remembered those clear words now. But anyway, it means we're all in favour of reform, but many are doing everything possible to avoid this reform, so that's not the goal. The objections are that certain areas are not represented in a sufficient way, that there is a need to expand the expert group with people who are competent but I would a little recall what the Committee for the Development of Education Strategy led by Mr Budak said it is actually only competent to form an expert team to implement curricula reform and it feels that it should not be extended with any experts, there is no need for enlargement, there is no need for change. Similarly, the National Council for Education and Education, Mrs Krstovic, who is the only competent person to actually assess these curricula reforms. Of course, there are objections. Mr. Academyman Paar says I don't know that you need with top experts, Mrs. Rusak the president of our board says 10 new people, she's a scientist she's for arguments, she's for dialogue, right, but actually for dialogue according to her rules. It's just that there's a hierarchy of relationships, and it's clear what you really want, and it doesn't look at those arguments. And Mr. Jokic realized it, very well, he's not a stupid man, he figured out what it was about. And he said about like this, this country doesn't need censorship groups, we're ready for dialogue but not political pressures. Changes must be ahead of politics and this is a national matter and we will not allow the parties to engage through reform. And finally, he asked a crucial question to Mr. Shustar, which is also of course for reform because we are all for reform, but it will be that that tipfeller at the beginning of government formation was not a tipfeller when it was read that the reform was not going to work. He asked a clear question whether Croatia needs reform or not and whether Croatia has money for reform or not? Because basically we can have the brightest plans, ideas, programs, but if there's no money to say, money, there's no reform. Mr. Shustar confessed to mea culpa, poured his ashes that we didn't pay off everything, but my God, we're going to pay off, but that's why the Committee for the Education and Education Strategy, which was responsible for the implementation of the 8 programmes, didn't finish its job. He's just moving the ball to their field. It seems to me that this is about one really wanting to suit each way you say... this society because we have a whole series of associations that really, they have the right of course, but what they offer is extremely questionable, extremely doubtful and for my understanding of education and education inappropriately. And in that sense, Mr. Jokic says let's go if we have to, and we'll give up for a year, because really objective reform can no longer be implemented, until the public debate passes, while the teachers who will participate are educated, 60 schools are in play, 48 primary and 12 secondary schools. So, in a year's time, let's do it, but let's do it in that reform. However, it obviously only wants to be delayed, there is no administrative support and in fact obstruction is in place and it is visible from every move and ministry and ruling political elite. I think that we have come to one of the situations that Kafka best described when he said "The goal of our path is to come to the realization of what we think under that path." And by this way we are actually going to create one goal where nothing is clear, where we are actually easing this whole idea and in this Kafkian atmosphere Mr. Jokic does not want to participate, and I completely understand it. Dialogue yes, but no pressures. And I think so much that we all need to support the reform but in a serious way as Mr Jokic imagined, or his expert team, and then through public debate, we must respect all possible objections that are there and create something that is truly of interest to our children and to our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7254	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the club MOST, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7255	Thank you, Mr. President. The position of the Most is that curricula reform must not be a political issue and that it is turning into a first-class political issue right now. The position of MOST is also that it should continue and that all expert remarks should be respected not ideologically but professionally and what happened with this reform is that in the media ideological discussions have stifled this expert debate. So ideological discussions attacked this reform that it is anti-Croatian although I disagree with it, but it is clear to everyone in this Croatian society, for example. The Homeland War should be called the Homeland War, not the post-Yugoslavic war, and of course it should change. But the main remarks of this reform are professional and I received students from math, physics and chemistry who have serious objections to this reform last week. And we believe that the expert group should expand if Mr. Jokic is considered at risk with 10 then it doesn't have to be 10 it can be 5 but professional people need to have expressions in this reform. Reform must not be the subject of politics, and it must be a consensus of all political parties which is not currently happening. I consider myself late to talk about this reform because I worked for 20 years at school and every reform has been broken over by children, parents and teachers. I have been through both HNOS and other reforms and no reform has been implemented to the end. And the view of the Most is that this reform must be implemented until the end, that it is long-term, that it is gradual and that it will take 10 years but that it must be implemented. I call on both Mr Jokic and Mr. Minister to establish dialogue and if they really care about reforming their own ammonities and moving together because this is how we look ridiculous to the Croatian public because we swear to the welfare of children and in fact neither side is giving in to their own views. He would also point out that Deputy Prime Minister Bozo Petrov received Mr. Budak and sent invitations to Mr. Jokic and that Mr. Budak said that Mr. Petrov was the only one to receive what he said about who was ready for dialogue. But I repeat again, so the curricula reform should continue, it should be ready for critical evaluation, it should start at nine months but it is not a dead letter on paper, it is a matter of process and it must not be broken over children. Here, for example. An example of Matko Glumcic, who worked on a curriculative reform in physics that has great remarks on this reform, who gave an isolated opinion and said one really essential thing, a physics curricula that is currently being implemented, which this reform envisioned is such that at the moment he could be spent by 5% of the school. For what? Because there's no equipment, because schools aren't equipped. So there are geniuses in this reform, for example. that kids have to investigate, that they have to measure. So what does it measure when they don't have the equipment? So this reform must follow, it must follow investment in science and education in the same way as some other things. So we had a current situation at school that 90% of schools in Croatia were technically not equipped for this reform. Well, I guess we should work together with reform and invest in that sort of thing. So what will they measure it with? There's no funds. So there should go parallel to both systems, both two support and here's the position of MOST is here I call really for dialogue and that reform should continue without ideological debates because it is an interest for all of our children, all of our parents, on the left and on the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7256	Thank you very much. And the final debate will be on behalf of the HDZ Club of Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7257	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues here are again aware and witnesses of a playbook that was prepared in advance, a press statement that was prepared in advance for the media prepared, from those who do not stick to the elementary acts that they have brought in and that is how MPs must behave in this House of Commons. So the Rules of Procedure against whom the HDZ Club was in Article 248 regulates how and why a break is sought. Among other things, in paragraph 2. I quote, the representative of the club of representatives is obliged to state the reasons why he is seeking a break and... the duration of the exposure shall not exceed 2 minutes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the SDP club sought a break and said what it would talk about, but their representative resigned from Article 248. And now for what I asked for a break on behalf of the club is the appointment of people in, the leader in Croatian highways and Croatian roads. First of all, it is not a appointment but a temporary appointment of people at the head of the company because the mandate has expired and to the supervisory boards and administrations. And practically neither the government nor the minister have any management mechanisms. But colleagues and colleagues who have short memories in this House need to be reminded of certain things. In 2010, as part of the Economic Recovery Programme, one of the essential items and leverages for better and more efficient management of state assets was the decision to open a public tender for appointments of members of the supervisory board and members of the management of a majority state-owned company. And that's what the government did during 2010 and 2011. Therefore, all members of the Supervisory Board and all management heads are appointed as the basis of the 2010 public tender. 2011 What happens by coming the Kukurik coalition to power. If the term of office of these management leaders expires in the 5th month and 4th month, then you can imagine what they did in the 2nd and 3rd months when they came to power. Political shifts and political appointments have replaced all those who have had the opportunity to be in a public competition and execute a political appointment. With the policy now being said, they've come with politics, and they'll go. Yes, one is true, they have come with politics, but this other part of the truth, with politics will go away, they have not respected. However, in 2013 and 2012, in fact, in 2013, the European Commission responded when the attempts to appoint two Deputy Prime Ministers were, in fact, one Prime Minister, one Deputy Prime Minister to the Supervisory Board of the INA mentioned so much. At that time, the European Commission said that the leaders could not be in the supervisory board of the company and the government was practically based on what was signed in the negotiations for entry into the European Union in 2013 adopted the Law on the Management of State-owned Companies. In that law, too, it has committed itself to adopt a regulation based on DUDI or someone else’s appointment processes in companies. But look, you need to protect those political favorites you named. Well, you don't get that regulation. You don't bring it in while you're in power. You know when you bring it in? You bring it in when elections are discussed and when it is evident that you will lose the election and that people will have to leave. You're making a regulation that's inconclusive. However, look at colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ that has been disputed so much since 2006, in 2007 passed a Law on the takeover of power where it clearly defined what the Government can do or what it cannot do to the future government. Among other things, it says that it cannot create obligations for the future government in the coming period. And perhaps the biggest mistake of this government is not because the minister appointed temporary managers yesterday, the biggest mistake of this government is that in the first session, she did not put the regulation out of force and clearly told the Croatian public that the past government had done something illegal and passed its own regulation. It's the biggest mistake and it's the biggest crime. And why we didn't do it is our political mistake. And that's why colleagues and colleagues should repeat it here. All of what I've said you can check in the acts of this High House and in the acts adopted by the Government, these are all facts, facts that someone ignores. So this government planted its successors with a cowardly egg, which is the inability to manage state-owned companies in 2016. And you know why? Try to cover some strange tracks and strange flow of money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u7258	Thank you very much. Now we could move on to what we're supposed to do on the agenda. Now we could move on to what we're supposed to do on the agenda. And as you remember we said we'd start with: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Care, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 64; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The materials were delivered to the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10264	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives. The main objectives of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth are to ensure the minimum standard of living for the most vulnerable part of the population and to meet the needs of socially sensitive groups. I need to stress here actually two things, it's two groups of citizens, the first ones that are considered poor or individual or family that cannot satisfy their own existential needs because of their incomes. The second category is related to social care in order to meet the specific needs arising from disability, age, addiction, inadequate parental care, behavioral problems, family violence, human trafficking, homelessness, asylum seekers and others. There are several sources from which social care is financed and the most significant funds from the State budget are under the means of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. Units of local and regional, regional self-government are involved in funding social care. The level of social giving reflects current and economic situations and budgetary opportunities. A significant role in preventing and combating the causes and conditions of poverty and social exclusion is played by social care centres. The centres have the right professional competences to accumulate knowledge and experience, to provide combined money. Thus, there are 80 social care centres and 38 branches that perform a number of functions that can be shared by public authorities in the field of social care, family legal and criminal justice and professional analytical, financial and other matters. Social services in Croatia are provided through a series of service providers for different user groups, which can be divided into social care institutions in view of their formal legal status. There are social care centres, social care centres, community service centres, house assistance centres, as well as other legal entities primarily associations and religious communities, individuals who carry out their own professional activities, mostly in the family home and foster families. Currently, 597 other social care providers of institutions and other legal and natural persons are active in Croatia with 3500 foster families. In the coming period, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth will stress the better focus of cash compensation, empowerment of the information and management system of social care, the establishment of an even network of institutional and non-institutional services, continued implementation of deinstitutionalisation and transformation of service providers. The deinstitutionalisation and home transformation plan itself should be related to the local social planning process in order to give priority to the development of services that are missing in the community, improving household care, promoting the activities of civil society organisations with a focus on regional distribution and affirmation of volunteer work, ensuring continued professional training of social care workers, strengthening the role of the local community in the process of planning services at local level, establishing a unique access to social services financing in the network, ensuring the standardisation of processes and quality of services, better informing potential users about the possibility of using funds and EU programmes. It will implement reform measures related to improving the efficiency of social compensation systems, which in fact includes the consolidation of social benefits, the establishment of a single centre for compensation and data integration and the unification of compensation administration, the determination of guaranteed minimum standards, and the improvement and strengthening of professional work. This will also enable savings that can be rerouted to a better social protection, in fact, by those most vulnerable groups of citizens. It is also listed in the national reform programme for 2016 as well as in the programme of convergence of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2015-2018. To this end, a loan has also been signed between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to modernise the social protection system. The consolidation of social benefits will be based on the standardisation of the criteria for the allocation of fees and the establishment of a single administrative place to unite the administration of fees, a simpler process of verification and exchange of data with authorities at national, regional and local level will be ensured. The purpose is actually to pool administrative fees, reduce irregularities and irrationality in the social protection system. This will, in fact, result in a guaranteed minimum standard as a maximum limit for the cumulation of social benefits that can be achieved from both national and local levels. The total amount of the guaranteed minimum standard should not be greater than the revenues that can be achieved by work so as not to actually weaken working motivation, a working-age population in stimulating social benefits. In order to prevent poverty and especially child poverty in the face of negative social phenomena, expert work will also include strengthening the preventive role of social work in the community and supporting individuals and families in overcoming existing difficulties. Here, of course, we mean professional organizations, welfare centres. It will also be accessible to continuously update the social services network, taking into account the particular need for a type of service at the county and national level, and to redefine how to negotiate and finance social services. This existing funding model does not provide equal conditions, access to the network to all service providers, contrary to the EU acquis and does not ensure the rationality and efficiency of the business of state and decentralised welfare institutions. Therefore, the new way in which social services are negotiated will allow a unique network access for all users and service providers, the standardisation of the process and the quality of services itself, equality and transparency in the financing of services and the facilitated monitoring of business costs. This implies eliminating the current models of financing social services according to expenditure, identifying acceptable elements of service costs, and compulsory application of service quality standards. The latest amendments and additions to the Social Care Act of September 2015 as a first step towards the establishment of a single Centre for Compensation, which represents a unique administrative point in the relations between citizens and the state in the area of the right to compensation, have determined the transfer of competence for the recognition of the right to guaranteed minimum compensation from the Social Care Centre to the Offices of the State Administration in the county, i.e. the competent Office of the City of Zagreb, as of 1 June 2016. It is also prescribed that, on the same day, the competent administration offices in the county will take unfinished cases to recognise the right to a guaranteed minimum fee. Since the necessary preparations have not been made in the meantime, and should have been carried out, to transfer competences to decide on the recognition of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee, not to the Offices of the State Administration in the county, as originally imagined by the administrative units of the centre. Why? Because we would create a further fragmentation and demonstration of the social state from above, that is to say, the establishment of a new office of existing social institutions can be qualified as an irrational and unsupervised decision, i.e. as further red tape, which is actually a weakness and trust in the existing system of social care. The need to redefine the proposal for the establishment of a single Centre for Compensation to develop a model that would ensure maximum use of existing capacities and ensure that social work is strengthened in order to support families and individuals in overcoming difficulties. In order to redefine the way in which the Single Centre for Compensation is established, and the complexity of the operational actions necessary for its establishment of the proposed amendments to the Social Care Act, that date of transfer of competence for the recognition of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee shall be extended on 1 March 2017 in accordance with the 2016 National Reform Programme. This national reform programme, adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 28 April 2016 under point 5 of the improvement of the efficiency of the social compensation system, also provides for a reform measure to establish a single Centre for Compensation, connecting data to a united administration of compensation. Furthermore, the Social Care Act stipulates that the minister responsible for social care affairs is to decide on the pricing of social services provided by social care homes and services centres in the community which are established by the Republic of Croatia in a network of social services. The objective decision will set out the price of social services for all service providers in the network which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia. The law stipulates that on the date of entry into force of that decision, the provisions of the law laying down the way in which institutions are established by the Republic of Croatia and decentralised county homes for older persons are to be financed. The suspension of the provisions mentioned above, or the financing model, must necessarily precede the implementation of the new negotiation procedure prescribed by the law. Since the construction of the basis for the implementation of the new procedure is under way and requires a significant number of sublegal regulations to be drawn up by the end of 2016 for the determination of the prices for social services. The following shall be carried out on the basis of the first public call for the assessment of compliance with the standards for the provision of social services, i.e. the adoption of a single decision on the pricing of social services provided by homes and services centres in the community established by the Republic of Croatia should provide a legal footing for the correction of certain social services prices in those institutions. Following the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act, it is possible for the Minister responsible for social care affairs to be subject to specific decisions in accordance with the Regulation, which will regulate the methodology for determining the prices of social services provided in the social services network to determine the price of social services for a particular home of social care, i.e. the Centre for the provision of services in the community established by the Republic of Croatia. It may be noted because of a correction in the prices of certain services in state homes. Namely, the existing price list has not changed, it was made in 2001, so it hasn't changed since 2001, and since then prices have definitely not changed. Indeed, since the cost of life has increased multiplely, it is necessary to create real conditions for the gradual harmonisation of social services prices with the real costs incurred in the service process itself. Perhaps it should be said for the end of these decentralised funds that are needed for homes of older and powerless amounting to 449 million kuna. The state has secured 346 million kunas, and the rest of 153 million kunas are actually provided by decentralised funds by the county. And in the very end, because of media inscriptions today, I am obliged by some portals to say, in fact, that this proposal passed on to the government on 11 May, that the parliamentary committees passed, that today's debate, and the expectation, the vote under this law is 3.6. In those two days nothing spectacular should happen, the demands will continue to apply. If necessary, they will be forwarded to the public administration offices. However, the adoption of this 3.06 law will actually continue to work in welfare centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10265	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit. The first is the distinguished representative of Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10266	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy, you have given a comprehensive introduction to the rights that users can achieve in the social care system as well as action plans, strategies, reforms and many things, and that is certainly commendable. However, I think that today is mainly the topic of prolonging deadlines related to the establishment and launch of the Single Centre for Compensation as well as the methodology and will certainly be referred to the current assembly and composition of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. However, my question is whether at the beginning of the work, when taking over jobs at the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, you noticed that the government at the time did anything to do as any preparatory action which could be the beginning or a good basis for setting up a single Centre for Compensation as well as related to price setting or methodology. Have you, too, observed or received data from the handover, on the acquisition of commitments, and on whether or not the funds received from the World Bank for this purpose have been spent or spent on purpose and purposely? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10267	Thank you. It will be answered by the esteemed Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10268	Dear colleague Murganić, since you come from this branch, I know what you mean, so I'll actually explain to you in short lines something that we were surprised with in fact at the 2nd month somewhere in the middle of the 2nd month we knew about this provision in the existing law and we knew it was not possible to implement it. In fact, the former government signed a completely unnecessary loan with the World Bank, although we had a 734m-euro progress fund and also European Social Fund funds. At the end of 2014, the former government signed a 70m-euro loan with the World Bank where the implementation body is the Ministry of Social Policy, although the vast majority of the funds relate to the Ministry of Administration or to the Ministry of Labour in those 5 components needed for signing. At that time, those funds that were withdrawn from the World Bank were withdrawn at approximately 2.99%. Of these funds, it is interesting that the Ministry of Social Policy or the former Government only signed 5 agreements for consulting services amounting to nearly a million kuna and the purchase of computer equipment that actually does not stand anywhere, somewhere in the ministry's records in corners distributed in the offices of the state administration. We discussed it thoroughly, not only in the ministry, and with representatives of the World Bank and we said it was not necessary and that it was not possible for them to take over the administration and that we are actually doing a new fragment that administratively because of their capacities, but also professional knowledge can do social care centres in the Republic of Croatia and in no way manages state administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10269	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10270	Thank you very much. Mr Babić's changes to the Social Care Act of 2014 were foreseen to take all unfinished items from the social care centres in which he decided to recognise the minimum fees from the state administration's office in the county and the City of Zagreb. Now these changes extend that deadline for almost a year. So the fundamental and logical question is why is the deadline extended? What are the reasons? Why aren't the items taken over? Will it take over at all? Who's responsible for this condition? Is there a reason to misjudge and impose the impossible or has someone failed? If he made an appointment, who made the appointment? Someone has to be responsible for this condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10271	Thank you. The Deputy Minister for Social Policy and Youth will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10272	Dear Mr. Maric, surely there should have been thorough analysis that would lead to an assessment that public administration offices are taking over from the welfare centre. All of us here present especially you Parliamentarians know how and how the administration offices work. They're not capacitated enough, they can't do any administrative work, they can't actually carry out procedures, they'd just make solutions. However, if you sign a World Bank loan with a consultant contract worth almost $1 million, which should only be checked out in the field of state administration offices and decide on how and how it will be implemented, and that almost a year does not deliver anything to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, knowing that this should be implemented as of 1 June, it tells you everything. We continue to think that public administration offices can't implement this in any way, that everything should remain in social care centres with special administrative units that would process users and thus bring solutions that would make them a single centre for compensation. Perhaps I should also point out that I have time for you to know about 24 benefits from the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and about 52 charges from other bodies of state authority. So somewhere around 78 fees. This unique compensation centre should be united for better control and administration of all these fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10273	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10274	President-in-Office of the Parliament, in any case, it is commendable that this decision by the former government to create a single centre for compensation at last, but what is a taste and a problem of Croatian society and this is the biggest failure I will dare say to Croatian societies that social benefits are not united and that this money is spent and distributed unfairly. That money is wasted in the good part. Some can drive a BMW7 at the same time receive a child's allowance, some can hide property in a 500 square-square villa and at the same time receive social benefits. As you yourself have said, these social benefits have over 70 different forms and they are not in any place united, although the law speaks of preventing such abuses. Today we certainly do not know how much money we have thrown away, the money of Croatian citizens unfairly and gave instead to those who need not and those who drive to BMW7 which is legitimate but then let them not receive a child's allowance. If they're driving to BMW7 then don't take social benefits. And that's the key problem of this society and that's something that needs to be changed. I call on you to do just that because it's a key reform and this system, the single compensation centre is a technical solution, that's good, that step the government took, the former government is certainly commended. But what needs to be done realistically should unite all social benefits and sanction those who wrongly receive money from Croatian citizens because it is no one else's money but the money of all Croatian citizens who pay taxes fairly and that money absolutely deserves to be transferred to those who need it and not to those who don't need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10275	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister for Social Policy and Youth will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10276	Comrade Bernardiæ, you are right and we have also accepted the unique compensation centre as a good idea, definitely a good idea. But you need to know that from your party's ranks when we talked about exactly what you're talking about introducing an asset and income censorship that we've come across resistance. And that's actually one part of the possible abuses that occur and a mistake in that system. When he signed the loan with the World Bank, he had five components. One of these was a unique centre for compensation, a unique body of art, a reduction of errors and abuse, deinstitutionalisation and labour activation. The truth is that we ourselves want those fees to be paid by the most vulnerable groups in this society, which I hope will happen in the term of office of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10277	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10278	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, we are trying here in the Parliament to promote policies and to take moves to ensure that Croatia is a society of equal opportunities for all. There, along with your ministry, must be the key Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Health, but unfortunately, right now, the citizens of Croatia are living in great uncertainty and in fear of what will be tomorrow. I was hoping that in your opening speech you would appeal and calm these people down, say that scholarships for children of a weaker property status for members of the Roma community will be paid as soon as possible, that social assistance will go no matter what the government and this House do not do thanks to the ruling majority, you have not done any of this. So I ask you to appeal to your government colleagues to start working and that all those who are socially threatened feel that they have the help of this government because this is not the case right now. I receive calls daily, applications from students, members of the Roma community who are simply unable to educate their children because the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is not doing its job and I ask you to warn the Ministers that they are required within 30 days to answer parliamentary questions. Namely, I have asked no questions asked by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports to Mr Shustar, and I have not yet received an answer regarding the current issues of socially endangered families.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10279	Thank you very much. I agree with you right now, and it's a bad practice, and it's been going on for a long time in the relations between the government and the Parliament, and it's bad. The ministries must answer the questions asked by parliamentary deputies and I will certainly pass this on to all members of the government. Here, they will answer your question, Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10280	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, amendments and additions to the Social Care Act of 2014 were provided for unique compensation centres. There was plenty of time to think about it, I repeat, once again it was not necessary to go to the offices of the state administration at all because it actually weakens the centres for social care that actually do it with users on the ground and we all know it. Through 80 social care centres as well as 34 branches of the social care centre in the Republic of Croatia and they are doing their job worth. I note that the Ministry of Social Policy has 6407 employees and that these persons are very well and professionally doing their job, of course there are also those exceptions that do not. This unique compensation centre, which I said not only for the compensation of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth but also for other state bodies is a noble and good idea, we certainly welcome it, but it should have been made far different. What happened, and what you're calling for, that maybe last week could be agreed, or that this law should come into force before 1.6. so that there won't be any controversy between the welfare center and the administration's office, I don't think anything important will happen in two days, and that the centres will receive the demands neatly. They will forward them to the offices of the state administration and I mean by passing this law through the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by taking effect on 3 June that there will be a lot of such requests. And when you were talking about Roma scholarships, you know we have a National Strategy for Roma. We're working together with Mr. Kattazi, and I don't think there should be any problem here. So far, we have all been obliged as the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth to say in the previous session, but we have now done it neatly. I don't see why that wouldn't be right now. I'll check it out, but I don't think that's accurate information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10281	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10282	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy, with all the effort and reading these materials and listening to you as a parliamentary representative, I did not get an answer as to why this law must be prolonged. Simply, the law is extended if no preparation has been made for its application. That clearly needs to be made clear about what happened and what didn't happen. Second of all, I don't think these laws where fees are paid can be passed, so-called. In this way, it's called corner dates. It's either a quarterly or a half-yearly or a year. So if we can't prepare the law to come into force in 1.1, then it would be logical for him to enter 1.4. If we can't do 1.4, then it would be logical to get into effect 1.7. Because on 1.3, he practically regulates payments until then in just one month, possibly in two. And it'll lead to a series of regulatory problems. The second thing, in this material no matter who wrote it, I think Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament deserve at least a minimum of correctness to write 10 sentences in what the World Bank's funds were spent on. It is well known why these loans are used, etc. Third thing, this law should come in what you said on the day of adoption, not on the 8th day of publication in the National Journal. And the fourth thing, if this government hadn't stopped the implementation of the OIB, that a central register was made in the IRS, we wouldn't be discussing these things at all today. The OIB was brought in. Among other things, one of the key things for the adoption of the OIB was a fairer, fairer and fairer payment of social benefits to throw out of that system all those who do not belong there and that all those who need it in such a way come to more funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10283	Thank you. The Deputy Minister for Social Policy and Youth will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10284	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Schucker, you've actually answered certain things about the amendment and the addition of this law. That was definitely supposed to go a long way. We've spoken to representatives of the World Bank about this, so I'm just going to tell you some of the things that are related to that World Bank loan. What is important, we were convinced that certain things happened through the Ministry of Social Policy or the Centre for Social Care on the ground, that certain educations were done, or that they would be at the centres. However, knowing that it would be at the offices of the state administration, we knew what difficulties we would get into, or what would happen to us then. Well, here's to all of you, the Ministry of Social Policy has one programme of social care so-called care. So I'll just tell you a few numbers. So we have recorded up to now a million and 803 thousand procedures for the exercise of rights and measures of which 540 thousand are active. 600 thousand users in the system and 650 thousand solutions have been made, most of what you have now said in the end thanks to the OIB. We want to force it through this system of soc. care actually through the OIB. And we through this system of social care can enter almost 20 state administration bodies, which actually enables us to make fairer solutions for those most vulnerable groups of Croatian societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10285	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mile Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10286	Your Honor, Your Honor. Well, speaking with people working at social care centres and their remarks on this law over time, it came to the conclusion that the law that was passed in 2014 was actually due to go into effect on 1 October 2015, so it was postponed by 1.6.6. So it's obviously been made public in the very creation of this law, not in the part where a single compensation centre is being introduced, but in the place where this centre should be implemented, and that is exactly the Office of State Administration. We all know that social care centres function more locally, so they're sort of deployed by county while the state administration's office is more functioning centrally and it's like one wish from the former government to sort of centralize the centre. The very idea of one - place benefits is not bad, but the real question is where it should be done. And I'm glad that you have already announced through your debate that this will be redefined. Thus, it is necessary to adopt this law today in order to delay the application that is impossible to implement, but on the other hand, we are going to have to change the law in most of the application itself and practically change the way it was originally imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10287	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10288	Dear fellow Totgergeli, you have actually seen the meaning of 2014 and October 2015 and now the delay that tells you is actually not thoroughly prepared. You got one loan, you should have decided certain things. You thought that was the best moment, the most pathetic. But you can see in the field that that's not possible. At the end of the line of office, social care centres as well as their branches are far more accessible to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia than public administration offices. For state administration offices if they weren't waving in county buildings, people wouldn't actually know where they are because they're not effective. We do, it's parallelism. I've long advocated that we either have government offices or we have counties. It's actually doubling functions. We have seen because of a number of things and the adoption of a solution of the state administration's office that they, that they are not capacitated to do so, and in fact we are interested in, is the interest of citizens in one place through their OIB to make a request or from that state body to get a solution, to get it in that same place that there is no great cost, that it has limited time, means that it doesn't spend much time and that it actually gets that social compensation it has the right to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10289	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, when we talk about evaluation and what and how I should always be more inclined to trust the world institutions and the world bank that it is a reform and that it is economical and that it should be done in such a way as to assess the policy now to return to the old and to pay off through the welfare centre. So surely the World Bank would not approve 70m euros for a project that lacks reform potential. And on the other hand, unfortunately from these announcements, we hear that you're giving up on reforms, that you want to go back to the old and kill that idea that social workers in welfare centres deal with more people and less administration, payments, virms, etc., than to put it in one place and perform services and beyond, and not just for social charges, you're now paying back to the social workers another obligation they've had so far, which they shouldn't have in the future. So you're not doing reform, you're putting things back on track, why? I don't know, whether it's because in five months you haven't been able to continue the job or you haven't done anything because it's just five months enough time or to estimate that it won't be possible to do so that you report to the entire public or do something. What I am particularly concerned about is that 104 334 Croatian citizens who should receive compensation 1.6. This by law will not be able to do so because of your incompetence and indifference and do not care about these people because it is not three days but it has been eight days since the entry into force and I do not know if you Mr. Babic are aware that someone is waiting for 900 kuna for 15 days, you probably did not because if he had made this law much earlier and made it possible for him to spend time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10291	Replication response, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10292	Dear Mr. Maras! We have actually talked to the World Bank since the month of February, and we have actually warned about this problem of poor evaluation of the former government or the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, and when we have explained to them the way and in fact what will happen on the ground they have accepted that we can continue to withdraw funds from that loan, they have accepted that, although I stress that this loan was not necessary because we had the resources of progress and we have the resources from the European Social Fund. This loan will be returned to our citizens by 2034. So we've been thinking about it. About some earthquake and something spectacular happening, you know very well that all the benefits from the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth were paid by the 20th of the month. Therefore, it will not happen to anyone in the Republic of Croatia that he will not be paid a fee, not 15 days you speak but not a day. As for the good planning and approval of the World Bank's funds, I will tell you, here you are sitting in front of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and former minister who, in fact, had no respect for the plan of deinstitutionalisation and home transformation, but went to the deinstitutionalisation of the homes of the most difficult cases from the center of Stančić and from the rehabilitation centre in Zagreb so that certain associations in the Republic have contracts and up to nearly 2 million kuna. What happened in the field? So we didn't communicate with the local community on the ground. At this point almost all places from Slunj, Sisak, Osijek, Ludbrega, Rijeka we get daily reports of inability actually co-existence with the most difficult cases from the center of Stančić. What did we get? Nothing. It is one missed project, it should have started and it is known with children's homes and not with the most difficult cases from the center of Stančić or from the Centre for Rehabilitation Zagreb. That's a bad assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10293	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy? President, Ines Strenja-Linić's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10294	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. So, at its session on 19 May 2016, the Health Committee discussed this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act with the final draft law delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening work, the proposaler's representative pointed out the reasons for the hasty adoption of the law since, in accordance with the 2016 National Reform Programme, it is necessary to postpone the application of the Social Care Act, which provides for the establishment of a single Centre for Compensation from 1 June 2016, because there are really no organisational and administrative conditions for the establishment of a single Centre for Compensation, and the legal certainty of users of individual rights and services in the system would be undermined. Therefore, some places where this cash compensation was to be paid are even on the third floor of state buildings where the authorities of the state administration are located. Then imagine, so people who need to come for social benefits, get this minimum fee, climb up and come to places like that, look for what office it's going to be in. Even such cases we have been able to detect completely clearly and it is clear that it has not been prepared or prepared for this step. Therefore, the latest amendments to the Social Care Act as a first step towards the establishment of a single Centre of Compensation were determined by the transfer of competences for the recognition of the right to guaranteed minimum compensation from the Centre for Social Care to the offices of the State Administration in the counties, i.e. the competent Office of the City of Zagreb with 1 June 2016. It is also prescribed that, with the same date, the competent public administration offices in the county will assume unfinished cases for the recognition of the right to guaranteed minimum compensation. In order to redefine the method of establishment and the complexity of the operational actions necessary for the establishment of this centre of these amendments and the Social Care Act, it was necessary to transfer the power to recognise the right to a guaranteed minimum fee on 1 March 2017. It is also necessary to provide a legal foothold for harmonisation because it is also the subject of these urgent amendments to the law, meaning the harmonisation of certain social services prices provided by social care homes and services centres in the community which are established by the Republic of Croatia by the social services network. Why? Since the construction of the basis for the implementation of the new negotiation process is ongoing and requires a significant number of sublegal regulations to be drawn up to determine the price of social services is foreseen by the end of 2016. The most misunderstandings on the board in the debate prompted the reasons for the increase in expenditure on social services providers because the new Social Care Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, and which was in line with the Energy Act, did not actually give them the benefit so far known and the advantage associated with the preferential energy price, i.e. lower tariffs for electricity and gas energy. And it created increased costs for our homes for older people. That's what we need to know. So it was in line with the law. But that part of the money that was being collected and which could have been invested in improving the quality of life of our older citizens in those homes now actually had to be spent because the price, because it was no longer possible to apply a preferential price for energy that was previously possible. In the discussion, the Committee members also agreed with the importance of improving the quality of services in all social care homes where the user should be absolutely in the first place. The prices of accommodation in homes the founder of the Republic of Croatia should equalise with the price of private-owned accommodations, while the state should co-finance the difference in accommodation, we also pointed out in the debate. So, we unanimously supported this on the board and we proposed to the Croatian Parliament to support the amendments, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act in order to properly implement and prepare the establishment and launch of a single Centre for Compensation with the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10295	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first one for discussion was registered by prominent representative Nada Murganic on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10296	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the esteemed colleague and fellow Members. The Law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act has only two articles and, as already clear from these opening discussions, that they refer to deadlines for failure to comply with the rules laid down by law. We hope that these new deadlines and dates will be respected by the ministry and that the time you requested will be sufficient for you to establish a single cash compensation centre as well as for the preparation of the methodology. The Croatian Democratic Community club will certainly support this law because of the urgency and the urgency of the emergency procedure. As part of the announced reform of the social care system, the 2015 Social Care Act also adopted a provision to set up a single Centre for compensations in the offices of the state administration of the county, or the competent office of the city of Zagreb, and that this will also make 4 payments from the social care system in one place, which is guaranteed minimum compensation, maternity and parental benefits and outside of the MIO system, benefits for unemployed and child benefits. Among other things, reminding ourselves here is already said to see the Single Centre for Monetary Compensation and yet for some reform moves, the former government has made a decision to raise a World Bank loan known to the public, which has been discussed and decided in this House. But it was not clear either then or now why a 70m-euro loan was raised for a social care reform that was estimated to need 20m euros. One explanation was that these were other bonuses, fees for reformers and more. However, what is important for this point is that the 20m euros foreseen for the establishment of a single Centre for Monetary Compensation were also intended for the establishment and establishment of a single body for art, deinstitutionalisation and a programme to prevent the abuse of corruption and errors. The credit went up with a 20-year payout. And we are now calling this government, that is, this ministry, why the Single Centre for Monetary Refunds was not established and by the third month of 2015 Deputy Minister Opačić, Mr Sardarić, explains that the single Centre for Refunds will begin in October 2015, says that at 4.1 billion kuna, the amount of these 4 fees will be saved by introducing a single centre and 600 million kuna at the administrative costs of 54 million kuna. The following is certainly that, in addition to these fees through the single centre, other fees will be paid in the action plan provided for, it is about 70 benefits that users make from the social care system, as well as from the state level, and what about the local self-government unit. We know that in all social care for all benefits, more than 10 billion kunas are allocated. The aim of introducing a single Centre for Compensation is to better channel resources, reduce the risk of poverty, consolidate other fees and easier access to EU funds, and that is certainly the goal, these are good wishes. However, the result was lagging behind. The Single Centre for Monetary Compensation has not even begun to be established although it has been announced that it will start working on 1.10.05. In the debate, we have warned of the fact that social care is already informed, that there is a care programme.net or social care as they are already called, that social workers already have data from FINA, Tax Administrations, MUP about data on the residence of our citizens and that no funds or loans are needed, but that additional networking is needed, not a whole new system. We also warned that no analysis was made of how many administration offices were teamed up for this new task and that this significant information was made in showing costs and/or savings. We warned in the debate that the organisation of work in which social care centres continue to process, collect data, go into citizens' homes, write solutions and payments are done elsewhere in another system is not good. The argument that professional workers would be free of additional jobs and would work with such an organisation has not been confirmed. The state administration's offices will definitely want to do more work and team up. Why don't they team up social work centers? We have an example of the Central Payments Account (COP) did the public authorities and state administrations that moved to the COP therefore reduce their administrative and accounting staff? We know they're not. The calculations continue to be carried out in their home. After all, most of them had salaries paid through the State Treasury, so there was no sign of large savings or the detection of irregularities that were prevented. But now we're where we are. This job needs to be done by a single Centre for Cash Refunds, the HDZ Club supports it. It supports the establishment of such a centre, supports both every reform and all proposals and criticisms put forward in this speaker in terms of better organisation of work with the intention of bringing reforms into the service of citizens, in this case the users of social care. We must not allow the introduction of a single Centre for Chaos Compensation to repeat the situation as it was created by the introduction of a single artificial body. The problems of the artisan that will result from the application of the Single Body Act were warned throughout 2014 and 2015 that what is happening is precisely what is happening and that is the inaccessibility and distance of the body of art. All several branches of artists, long-term proceedings are awaited for a year, misunderstanding and different interpretation and application of the findings of the opinion of the witches and more. Deinstitutionalisation, which was also one of the reasons for implementing the reform, is also being implemented with a lot of problems, but we will talk about it later, another time. The Social Care Centres, or the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, are responsible for their parties' jobs. And these jobs don't work because the jurisdiction of the unique body of art has moved to another resort. We are afraid that this could also happen with the creation of a single Centre for Compensation that can and must be established within the framework of and the competence of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. It does not mean that it must be carried out exclusively by social care centres, does not mean that it must be a burden for professional workers, can be organised through accounting and information services but in the jurisdiction of those who will decide and implement decisions and can then be responsible for their decisions. Social care centres have already started a job by introducing single payments, introducing programmes, making payments to a guaranteed minimum fee that pooled some recognised rights, assistance to maintenance, two defence benefits that might be good not to mention because they were taken over from the Office of State Administration and we know how unfavourable that was for the defenders. And they're also doing extended work aid. Other data are also available to social workers because of the programmes and networking that we have been talking about. Therefore, in one place with an additional reorganisation, the organisation and tasks of single centres for cash compensation can also be taken over. I can't not pull the parallel between these two single body systems and the skills because the mistakes they've made can't happen again at the beginning and when they're artificial, they need to be corrected as quickly as possible. So these are our proposals that we want the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth to respect, I hope there is a clue to this and the time you've been looking for is hopefully enough for the organisation and establishment of the system. So, I repeat, we are for reforms, not chaos, reforms that are carried out without any examples, which are not thorough, can create a lot of problems for our users. And one more thing just for the end of the methodology. Every time we pass laws, there are still a number of sublegal acts and regulations to be passed by a minister so that the law can be fully applied. This is also the case with this methodology for determining the prices of social services. Making this methodology is a demanding and sensitive job. The basis for decision-making on the price of services, evaluations in accordance with the standards of services of individual service providers, tendering and is the basis for negotiation and conclusion of contracts. I also stress this not for the reason that I am now discovering hot water, but for reasons that will take a while and hope that the time required will be available again. And most importantly, let us not forget that the purpose and purpose of everything is to organise the quality care of our socially endangered citizens. Such reforms and adequate social policies are always and all these remarks are going in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10297	Thank you. Here's a few replicas. Milanka Opačić is the first to be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10298	Well, my colleague Murganic said that this reform wasn't prepared, and I'm sorry that you don't have to know yourself here as agents because you don't have all the information available, but the gentlemen who came to the ministry have everything and should just read. So there's a whole hodogram of this reform, this reform has been prepared, the reform could go at this time that six months have not dealt with travel and some other things that are completely peripheral. The reform could therefore have been brought to life today because the social care application was to be transferred to the offices of the state administration and that was the discharge of people to social care centres. So here's Mr. Deputy himself, you have to watch what you're saying because you're putting yourself in there. So you were saying that there are 650 thousand solutions, several hundred thousand of everything that people in the centers do, you're going to charge them extra jobs, doing additional administrations for some extra fees that aren't in the center, so child support, maternity benefits, parental benefits. This reform opens up space and was thus written to the European Commission that all 78 fees go to a single monetary centre. I really admire it to you that the people in the center you'll be loading the end of all their jobs instead of dealing with families they'll be dealing with administration. It was a fundamental objection to them all these years to deal with administration, to become administrators who issue solutions. That's why it was supposed to go to the state administration offices. I don't mind if you go some other way, let the system itself keep quiet about it, let people put up with it in the centers, I don't mind it really anything, if everyone chooses their own path as they go into reform. And another delusion, which is that the defenders were worse when we united the fee. Not true, the defence fee, the supply only recognized the defenders, so those defenders who had a family with children received more than 1000 kuna in our system, and those who lost those 200 kuna compensated Fred Matic from his ministry. So no one was cut off for lip.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10299	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10300	Thank you, dear Vice President. Part of this replica was directed by Mrs. Opacic to the deputy minister, but I will answer from my point of view, or from the angle of looking at colleagues on the ground. You say the reform has done a lot, but we'll believe it when we feel it on the ground. The system doesn't shut up, the system screams, social workers are burdened with everything and everything. And you know what to do... If we don't say the same thing, it's just that the social worker is still going to make a fee to do all the preparatory work, they're going to send someone to a single center just to click. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And then he's responsible for something not well done, done in time because it happens with a unique body of art. For a year he waited for art and the social workers came to the centre to ask them why they weren't invited to art, why they didn't get an opinion, why the findings and opinions didn't match the solution that the social worker was writing? The Ministry of Social Policy is responsible for something that happens in the second portfolio and therefore let it be under the auspices of the ministry just as some people who are not exclusively professional social workers can be employed by the Ministry of Social Policy can be employed by the Ministry of Social Policy, can be persons of medium professional training, accounting or other education that will pay off but professional work you will only be able to do social workers. They'll talk, they'll look into the field, they'll collect documentation, they'll implement regulations that approve or disapproval. Don't wave your head at me, just look back at what you've done on the ground with a unique body of art?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10301	The next replica is the esteemed representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, as I recall, the mantra of this government is a word called reform, and all the time it says reform, only reform and once again reform. But what I'm hearing today I can say one thing, this government and you to crash into the street with reform wouldn't recognize it as a reform. Because if there was any reform, it was this reform, if anything needs to stay as a reform, it's this reform. Because one of the basics of doing this is saving money, putting order in everything that wasn't good. And what's most important is that every part of the state starts doing their own weed business for which it exists. That social centres are finally working with people, not to count money, rather than to make public administrations work with red tape and do what they need to do and why they exist. Some governments have set up state administration offices, if you feel you don't need to choose to cancel them and don't put them in a position not to serve anything, frankly speaking. On the other hand, if I remember correctly, the election was the 11th month of last year, than few people remember when the elections were. This government is, if I remember as well, welcome to January. And it's been even those famous 100 days of government when every government gets used to getting used to it and all the troubles can be brought down to the previous government and all those authorities behind it. Dear colleague and dear deputy minister, it's been a long time since this government's vote in the House, and every excuse is really funny that someone else is to blame for why you came to teat on eight days, 15 days or I don't know what. It's not to say pure nonsense, you know, since you came into power and no law last government has worked in secret. Therefore, I would suggest that you ask your government and your ministers to catch up and start working. And not to be a Croatian at the end is the judge's fault because we lost the game or it's Bozo Petrov's fault that this power will fall by the end of this month. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10303	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10304	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You told me nicely, dear colleague, so I tell you, dear colleague. You didn't listen to my argument at all or you didn't understand it. And that's just because you don't want to replicate to me what I've been saying, but what I'm saying to you right now is your brain and your mind is spinning. First, I wouldn't recognize the reform. We recognize very well, but we recognize and... which you, under the name of reform, have left in the section that you have succeeded in changing in part of social care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I'm pulling the parallels. I'm not talking about eight days late, and after that, I didn't call you or your government at all, but I called you in a year and a half when you announced that the single center would start working. And now I'm glad it's not because they'd do the same thing with the body of art. And for the sake of the public and for the people who work in the offices of the state administration, I didn't say they shouldn't and don't suggest to me and my government that we abolish them. They know why they exist and they don't have to and they don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10305	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Murganić, I believe in your good intentions, the welfare system and citizens who are the most sensitive part of Croatian society that simply depend on the state's assistance because they have no other choice. But let's face it, and let's face it, in 4.5 months, this government, and even this deputy has done absolutely nothing to refer to the parliamentary procedure of amending this law and to allow guaranteed minimum fees in time of payment. With this kind of leniency, this kind of amateurism, this proposal of Laws 5 to 12 puts us in a position that 103,000 citizens who receive guaranteed minimum fees for the first time in the history of the Croatian state will not receive these funds. I'm asking Mr. Deputy Minister if he could live a few days, weeks, no minimum fees guaranteed, no matter how low she is. But it's no wonder This is not surprising, Mrs. Murganic, from this government because we see that for the first time in history, it was no matter what the gifts are, people with disabilities, members of national minorities. [[Stain Sanader: Replica is MPs, replica is MPs.]] For the first time in history, this government has put them in a position not to receive scholarships by their inaction for months. Either they don't do anything or when they work in the state they create chaos.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10307	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10308	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Voter, you said you believed in my good intentions when I was talking about social care users. And what I can tell you for sure, yes, you believe in my good intentions when I want good users of social care. I'm in the profession and I come from that system and I'm going back to that system. And me, I need to keep an eye on where I'm going back. And all this stuff I'm saying, I didn't say it by heart, and I didn't say it with evil intent. And the least I could do is let the system collapse. Well, let me be in my predictions, and rightly so, it's better than to have some kind of thing happen, I repeat my mistakes again. We've burned ourselves, let's all take it together where we've seen the mistakes and let's avoid them. As for the payment of guaranteed minimum fees, it can't happen that they don't. It can't happen, it's a guarantee to the ministry, and in this country, it sure as hell won't happen to anyone in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10309	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10310	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear and esteemed representative Murganić, despite the fact that you have had the previous three lines, and I will not tell you the replica of the deputy minister rather than you, I will say that you are absolutely right and especially in the part where you say that the government is a general chaos in the '14s, so I would say a good part of the '15s precisely because of the uncentralised system, precisely because of what did not happen on the ground itself and that is the connection of the centre with all the local communities. Very often it happened, of course, to county communities, administrations, and very often it happened and most often I say in '14 that inside the local administration when you asked for information on who the user is or who should receive either a protected rent or any of these 70 social assistance types so that you could not duplicate on the part of the local administrations you couldn't win. Very often, it came to the very ground by the ministry at the time without even reporting to local administrations. Very often certain facilities and certain facilities that were happening at local levels were also opened, financed by local environments, and the ministry's employees came to this. But that's not the problem. The problem is that there is simply no closeness with local administrations and county administrations in order to know and so as not to double the social assistance from local, county and not to in any way overlap with the assistance of the welfare centre, and this has often happened because local administrations could not get the information. That is why a necessary and necessary single system is connected, implemented with county and local administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10311	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10312	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Boban, you've said a lot, coming from the middle, from the units of local administration, self-government, and surely you have a lot of experience. We've all worked long enough, we've had all kinds of experiences and good and bad. What I would like to stress again is that we support the introduction of a single compensation centre because we need networking, the connection of information, and we need it very much. We talked about a few dozen social benefits, they are also used from the state level and used with units of local self-government because many cities have good social programs, well that they can and should be upgrades to what the state as some kind of minimum because of various censorships can give to its citizens. And certainly that networking is very important to avoid some kind of duplication. Personally, I may be there in subjective grief when it comes to the social care system of abuse, and then it turns out that everyone who has and uses social care benefits is the one who abuses and the kind of labels, Stigmatization and discrimination that I am really sensitive to regardless of who it is and especially about the weakest and poorest of our citizens. Unfortunately, there are abuses, but this abuse doesn't mean that the whole welfare system should be appreciated, social workers should not be condemned because there are very skilled people who know very well and can hide the real situation, but when it's spoken in this way in the media, then that abuse is at the heart of the event and it turns out that all the users of the social system are those who are burdened by the state. That's why this information is good, it's good networking, it's good to monitor our social benefits, and we support this unique compensation centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10313	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10314	Thank you very much. My colleague Murganić, if everything had been prepared for the application of the Social Care Act, this law would probably not have come to the agenda. The second thing, this law sends a clear message that everything will go the way it was and that no one will be damaged until the services are prepared to fully apply the new Social Care Act. But it's hard to admit that you didn't do something. To hide that you haven't done anything, then it's to panic, and that's what's happening these days around this Social Services Act. So let's panic, panic, and now we're just going to talk about that someone, that this government hasn't done something and that someone's not going to get something and actually the truth is somewhere else, and that's why I was just expecting in this bill that the Proposer i.e. The Ministry of Social Welfare explains a little bit better what the World Bank loan funds have been spent on, that it is a programme that will not fail, etc. And in the end, no one will be damaged and that this whole process is going exclusively to get the money really those who need it and not those who have entered this system, and it just doesn't belong to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10315	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10316	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Shuker, I will use the answer to your replica to potentiate exactly what my faith is and the obligations of both the Ministry and this Government that social care users should not be left without their fees due to any law or any procedural errors and that sentence in which you said, yes, it's only about extending deadlines and it's going to be all the same for now. The programme must also not fail, no matter how much we were then against whether this should have been rational or not, whether we could have upgraded and set up a single compensation centre from our own resources and savings. It's over now, we've raised money, we've got a loan, money is expensive, every loan is expensive, no matter how much we thought we got, it's been raised to 20 years, so it's not just bound by the last government, it's bound by this government, and there's a lot of next governments that we're really doing this reform here, I don't know if it's good to do it again, let's get our heads together again the best we can, it's not so big a job, social care isn't big, there't a lot of users, but there's a lot of, lots of smart, hard-working workers and enthusiasts who have worked in much harder conditions with their users so we can't make this kind of reform and money as we see it has to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10317	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10318	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Murganic. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act has only two points. You said a lot in your explanation on behalf of the HDZ Club, let's say an amendment to that law. You've had five months since this new government was established to prepare a new law if you're not satisfied with the existing law which, I remind you, was a reform law because in one place he wanted all compensations for justice to be united, so it's known exactly who was receiving which fee not from multiple sources of funding, several ministries were receiving compensation. And administration has centralized data to know exactly who is receiving what fees. That's why it went into reform. And if you're not satisfied with the existing law you're proposing a new one, you have five months. And now these five months you haven't been able to get by in the business, you haven't been able to apply the existing law, you're prolonging the deadline in nine months, which is illogical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10319	The answer to the distinguished representative, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10320	So now there's a desire to respond to your replica, because I think it's rude not to respond to replicas. But the trala la, lala lala, the replicas will go, it's not us, it's you, so I'd tell you now that you've been worshiping us for five months, and you couldn't for a year and five months. It's all expensive, I think it's already declassified. Yes, the new law is in preparation, the new law will be much more comprehensive than you have now shown us here in the replica. The Single Centre for Monetary Compensation will combine the payment of only those cash fees that have been provided for in the current law, and as you interpret that the single Centre for Compensation has the basis that everything will be united and that it was a revolutionary law does not really stand. But in the replica, I don't have time for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10321	Thank you. He was asked for his word by the Proposer, the Honorable Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10322	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Offered after the presentation of my colleague Murganić, as well as Mrs. Vosovac's replicas, and here is Mr. Penic to explain really something that should be explained and for the public's sake of this demagogue that I understand whether I understand what it means that 102 thousand people will not receive their fees and that they will live for 15 days. We make it clear and loud that the Ministry of Social Policy has paid all the fees for the fifth month. You are now talking about fees, guaranteed minimum fees somewhere around 103,000 users, but don't talk about other fees for the threatened buyer of energy, for housing fees, for heating, for dormitories and the like. Far away, there are far more fees to be paid from our ministry. About how we did it and how we did it, I say I'm being offered what Mrs. Voter said I'm just going to tell you how it handled those means, but clearly and loudly. I didn't mean to say this, but I'm going to say it now, because I'm being challenged by Mrs. Voter's replica. So only that part of the single compensation center has been spent on 7.5 million kunas. Out of that, 500 thousand kuna on official travels. Keep your eyes open. Certain services that have nothing to do with them and that will not happen at all have been spent, for example, on the technical assistant adviser to the EU funds of 815000 kuna. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has its own consultants that did not benefit. Ask yourself why, why did this happen? Then to the gentleman to monitor profiling, not to speak because he is not a Croatian citizen we pay 20,000 euros. For the technical assistant advisor to edit office premises of the Office of State Administration 738000 kuna. So you tell me, if that was enough in 2014 to just do these consulting services something that should have been useful to unite all those fees that you're talking about and that we want and welcome anyway what's been done? Nothing at all. Not exactly the work of the former government, but also the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. That's what everyone's saying at the ministry happened exactly this way that we have to extend the deadline because it's impossible for a single compensation centre to even work at 1.6. It's just impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10323	We have four replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, you have now listed the services paid by the ministry to consultants. Well, here's the public I'm interested in what the total amount is, because according to what you only partially listed in 2014, for those costs paid by the ministry could have been much more, meaning social benefits and better organisational conditions achieved within the ministry itself and decentralisation of people on the ground to have our crazy accessibility who is socially at risk. The exact means to which these consultants were obviously served were not the purpose when they said, but some political people who needed to be paid and used who knows for what advisory pre-election purposes. We also know that this ministry also had family law. Millions of kunas have been invested. And those funds could have been directed somewhere else, and the Constitutional Court has declared it, so it's anti-constitutional. So, we've lost time and time and now I'm listening here to stories of 300 thousand unemployed, 300 billion kuna, 300 thousand of them being executed is a difficult situation. And now any party, mostly the one that has been in power so far to speak in the way it speaks in the House at least, could at least say let's solve the problem together all together, not consultants paying millions and millions and today here to act socially, as socially sensitive people. It is a shame of this society if this is how it was done in the Ministry of Social and Youth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10325	Replication response, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10326	Comrade Bulj, you know that we are also under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia a social state and that the spine of the social state system is the Social Care Center. And instead of strengthening the Centre for Social Care, to educate these people to really do their job and what the vice president of the Croatian Parliament said we would impose certain tasks that the centre should do additionally. No, all these solutions and all these treatments will be done in other state bodies. However, we want the centre through a special administrative unit that we have agreed with the World Bank and with additional people if you want, because this is what the World Bank allows these people to prepare and administer. Because they know it best. So social care centers are the spine of this system. We don't need, I don't know, some other extra-institutional forms to help those centers. And in the end, all the centers do that for you. I just said out of those 70 million euros that are two components, one out of 50 million euros and the other out of 20 million, first of all it was not necessary to sign that loan at all because we had a progress programme that was related to the EU adopted in 2006 and we signed it in 2007 in the amount of 734 million euros available by that progress we could withdraw one part of the funds, and we did not. So we have people, over 30 people in the ministry are at EU funds, and we take external consultants who pay 100,000 euros to do this to us. And those 7.5 million kunas we actually spent on consultants that we've never seen, on contracts that are in English and not telling you about other things I don't want to talk about right now, but the fact is that that's why we couldn't introduce a single center with 1.06 because it was almost impossible. Besides, until that time, if you want the election, and it was in the 11th month, the formation of the government in January 2016, what did you do by January? So do you think it's possible I don't know? Okay, sorry. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10327	Next replica, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10328	Look, it makes perfect sense that you here are trying to rock us as much as possible. So I'm going to say one more time that we should learn something. So, the World Bank has its own budgets to spend their resources on. The consultants are their demands, independent consultants and choose to compete according to the World Bank's proposition. Okay? According to the World Bank. And one more thing, money can't be spent from the World Bank for no social benefits. So World Bank money is spent on reform. These 70 million kunas are intended for several reforms, not only for the welfare system but for several ministries. There was no money for reform. Every reform costs because something must be invested in it. And the budget that shoots at all the stitches that you see now simply couldn't have a new stopper to finance the reforms. That's what you did when you were in power and don't look at me like that, Mr. Shucker, and you had World Bank loans because you know that these are the cheapest financial resources you can get to. And we received the World Bank loan on the same basis as the reforms we have made and approved by the European Commission. And this reform that we should have entered and which you are obviously stopping now because all you're saying is some kind of stopping the reform was supposed to bring some savings. Touch a little child's allowance and you'll see how much savings there are. You can only do this with one good application and with the connection of the system that you are not able to do so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10329	Replication response, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10330	Thank you very much. The respected vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament of people who do so in our ministry and your ministry are the same people, we haven't changed them. We didn't do it the way you did. Well, they're the same people who do that and they're valuable people and they're worth every respect because they're doing a big job. As for the World Bank of Proposition approved by the World Bank, it does not condition the Ministry of Social Policy what they will do. Besides, if they did, if they made you conditional, then what did you get from those contracts? All your contracts are in English, what did you get from these consulting services? I ripped out the first page so it wouldn't be, this is 119 pages of a consulting house, a million and 517 thousand kunas to let us know what it is... which is a child's allowance, by which law, which is not what funds are related to heating, the administration process and so on. [[You don't understand.]] A million and 500 thousand kuna! For what our people in the ministry are doing. I'm against that consultants of any, in the extreme line of confession you'll not be able to know a man from Pakistan better the current situation in the Republic of Croatia than ourselves or from our people who are in the center. Why disabling these people? For what? They're very valuable people, they're professional people. We don't need outsiders from the world to tell us how we can do it. And that's best known to you by the people who are in the welfare centers. And you know it. I commend every good job that's been done and this unique center is certainly a good try. But he wasn't well-founded. It should actually be done, it could be done. How are you going to say tomorrow when such a thing is what we suggested to the World Bank that this operation center be in the FINA. FINA is Croatian, FINA has IT technology, there is not all the installations we need. It is the most accessible to people in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, from the island, Zagora, Slavonia, Banije, Korduna, Istria, Rijeka, northwestern Croatia from wherever. We're actually thinking the same thing for the good of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10331	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10332	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Babic, the Deputy Minister, is not clear to me from this presentation why you deny consultants here and are going to the IFO Institute in Munich after consultation? Obviously, you do not know the procedure of taking loans from European funds. Why can't we hire our domestic consultants, but we have to take some independent outsiders. That's one thing. You're saying that this unique body of art costs 7.5, a single body of art, costing 7.5 million kuna, that travel costs are about 600 thousand kuna. Travel costs are due to centralization, for example for my area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the centre for the unique body of art is in Split. And normally, geographical distances increase travel costs. As far as costing is concerned, that 7.5 million kuna was spent on this unique body of art was not only an expert in social benefits. So you're not well-versed either. It means pension benefits, which is why it's called, skillful pensions and other rights, on five rights it's an expert. It didn't get enough capacitated. I agree. As for costing this mile and a half kuna what was paid to independent external consultants, did you pay for your consultant who made the economic programme of HDZ? It's all costing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10333	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10334	Dear colleague, I'm sorry I forgot my last name, Penic, Mr. Penic the truth, but what I was saying, we've mixed up pears and apples a little bit. So I was actually telling you about this modernization of the system related to the unique compensation center. I wasn't saying, these are official trips to Slovenia, Hungary, London, I wasn't talking about a unique body of art. The unique body of art is a special component and you know it very well through the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth where two Rehabilitation Laws, a professional rehabilitation related to persons with disabilities and the Law on the Single Body of Arts have come together and this institution of art has resulted. This is a special component and this component itself contains an amount which is particularly related to official travel, which I have not talked about and I understand for 3.6m euros. I was just talking about this part that's about the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. The truth is we don't have anything against consultants, they're necessary and necessary, but the question they brought us, what they did besides make us don't know some projects on 119 pages that aren't feasible. And this... institute that you're talking about, I believe if everything's okay, it's going to be feasible and this reform that we're going to spend and you're going to be surprised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10335	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10336	Thank you very much. A colleague, Babic, knows exactly what the World Bank finances and how the World Bank finances. These are loans to support reforms, in fact to support the liquidity of the state budget. Why? Because according to the World Bank's statistical records, loans have very different ways of recording and therefore they are tempting to the countries because of the interest rate, etc. However, the consultants that the World Bank imposes on them in principle are conducting what you want about them, you pay them, and you ask them for a product. And the only thing you need to deliver to the World Bank for these loans is reform. And this government didn't deliver that reform. Because if the government had delivered the reform, we wouldn't be discussing this law today. And those are the facts. So here to understand what World Bank credit is, I think it's just funny. And so are the consultants. And if you're taking a consultant, then you tell him it's unclear for us, that, that and that, we want you to do it and do it based on your experience in several countries. And you get a product like that. Now, do you, on the basis of this product, complete the reform or not? Obviously, by the basis of this product delivered by these consultants, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is unable to complete the reform, and therefore we are now in a position to ask for a delay in the application of the law because it is simply not all prepared and these are facts and these should be repeated here all the time. Because if we don't repeat it again, someone's going to panic that this government's reluctantness and parliament is going to lead to no one getting the money. No true truth, everyone gets their money because today we're sending a message to this law that no one will be harmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10337	The reply to the replica, dear Deputy Minister Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10338	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Shuker, as my colleague said earlier, the EU funds and their loans, and the EU funds do not give you credit, the World Bank, this loan that we signed, and I say again, we should not have signed it because we had other tools that we could use, in particular, progress, or European social funds. And I think that's all we had to use, and we'd have enough resources to carry out this kind of thing. The fact is that what the former government signed back in 2014 is that we took over today. We do not want to give up this 500 million kuna, or 520 million kuna, but we want to use it in the best possible way now. That's why we asked for further consultations with the World Bank to explain things that are feasible. Of course it's a big deal, we're aware of that job and it's not going to be easy because we need to get certain things involved so that these centers can work at all. But we are convinced that, only with people who will do so, we are convinced by a new regulation where we want to further strengthen this particular sector for a single centre for compensation, or people who would do so, in fact, and thus show that it is possible and enforceable. And all because we can better control compensation through the OIB what you said and because we save money from the state budget and that these funds actually get people, get households that are actually the most vulnerable in the Republic of Croatia and those who really need help from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10339	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10340	Thank you very much. Your honor, Deputy Minister, I'm a little surprised by your numbers. Who would expect such a thing in one ministry from perhaps the most famous minister from the former government. This testifies that there was likely to be some dispensation there, doing whatever was obvious to buy the favor of certain people, writing such papers, paying off all the money because what we should talk about in general when we were having a debate here and we knew today the said loan of 70 million euros was not known at all what it was taken for, and what was its purpose and we see that there were other sources from which all this could be solved. And what do we have today? We have fugitives from the Parliament, I guess they're trying to outrun that most famous escape in the early '90s when the Republic of Croatia was created. But let them continue, as far as we're concerned, they shouldn't even be coming to the end of this government's term. But I'm interested in something else, can you tell me about that famous episode of watching a dog at the Department of Social Services? What amount was paid to a person who was only in charge of guarding a dog who was there on, as we heard from or read somewhere from the media that he was there on guard and adjusting to prepare for some other activities. Because it was a really big move and the question is how many taxpayers paid for it. As for consultants, the most money ever paid in the Republic of Croatia for the failed consultations of the Croatian Post Bank and the monetization of Croatian highways, tens of millions for something that never happened and we wonder who they were paid for, why and for what job.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10341	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10342	Dear colleague Boric, I honestly love dogs and I find it hard to tell how and in what way they were paid for it or not, I suppose not, but then the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth as well as other ministries through the Ministry of Labour received people for professional training and certainly one part of them or one of them was used for being honest, personal, doesn't bother me. I'm saying, we need to talk about other things and it's about this unique compensation center, which is very important to us. And it is important that the public knows that, and it is important that colleagues also know that because I say we are a social state, unfortunately a large number of people in the Republic of Croatia because of the difficult economic situation, the unaccountability of employment are through the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth in one way or another through a guaranteed minimum fee, through one-time assistance, help for heating, for vulnerable customers of energy. You know, it's about 500 thousand people, it's not that small. And all of this needs to be paid off and it is normal that it is in the interests of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth that a better economic situation is in the country and that we have as few of these users on payrolls as possible, i.e. through the budget of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. And I hope that on the left and on the right there is a consensus about it, that we all wish that all these people get one fair fee, that those people who are the most vulnerable in the Republic are either the individual or their families that I am convinced that... Here, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10343	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Dear representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. And what to say after this than oh, my God. I've been trying all along this debate to come to the conclusion that citizens who are users of social benefits and watching this transfer are now experiencing all of this. We have a law in two articles that we're extending the deadline to, so it's not 1.6 next year, and we're talking about 70 million euros all the time, so these millions have spent on some kind of huge consultant. And now that the average citizen's fee can be determined rather than that he won't get the 1.6 fee that belongs to him because someone in the previous government stole some huge millions and spent it on some consultants or I don't know what. Let's get serious and focus on the problem because the problem is really big. So, if anyone suspects crime, so are you, fellow Boric, and you suspect crime, that the funds of any ministry have been spent non-transparently, unintendedly, not in accordance with contracts, with world banks, funds or any other ministry we have had, please point out that, report to the institutions, the name and last name of anyone who has embezzled the funds. If we don't stop this rhetoric, let's focus on the problem we have and the problem is big and let's discuss the problem then. The other thing that's never good is not to go to the previous government, and I keep saying that every fourth year we reset. Every fourth year when a new government comes, then all those who were before, and only before, if it was another government, is wrong. Did we have the Social Care Act before 2011 in Croatia? Did we have social needs for people who used social benefits? Well, I guess we did. So now we're talking about all the problems being caused by someone last year or a cut or 2015 or 2014 something's happened. This law, which was passed in 2014 concerning this unique collection centre, went in the direction that what was not right we should try to fix. We realized that in the year 1.10, we wouldn't be able to honor what we negotiated with the World Bank that loaned us. And it wasn't paid 70 million euros how much the loan was signed, but it was paid off on the basis of the money done, so what we agreed when we did it, then the funds paid off and paid off. And if anything else today, the deputy said two wholes were paid, what, four percent? 2.9. So let's not talk about 70 million, but let's focus because then the ones we're accusing of being stolen are smaller thieves by that. So the fact is, by 1.6, we couldn't do something we promised to do. Now the only question is who's to blame and why it didn't work out. State administrations aren't ready for administrative or information, so we haven't been able to do what we planned. The question is whether what we're up to is bad or what we're up to is right. If that's a good thing, then we're going to change this bill, so we're going to go through it by 1.3 next year with the idea that this government is going to be much better, more capable, faster, and then they're going to make it all by 1.3 next year that the former incompetent government didn't make it. But why is it that the deputy minister says today all the time that this isn't good and that they're going to transfer all the work back to welfare centers? If so, it means that we are going to new amendments to the social law, therefore, new amendments to the law. If we're going into new amendments to the law and if it's necessary why we're not, or why you're not in this House with changes to things that you don't think are good, so whether it was a unique body of art, so whether it was a unique collection centre or anything you thought was wrong. Coming to the Parliament with two articles that we're just changing dates for something we're planning to do because we're not up until now and talking all the time with this rhetoric about who did what, which wasn't good, which wasn't right, it's really very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very. One answer is to the MPs in one way and another to criticise that nothing was done and that nothing was good. That's two different ideas. And what I think and repeat and underline all the time. People who listen to us, users of social benefits, in this can conclude only one thing, that we don't care if they get paid or not, but that it's only important for us in this parliamentary debate to criticize each other and talk about whether someone did something right before or did something bad. If we have passed the law, if we have said that we need to unify all social benefits that we have control and that we have all agreed that we know who gets what, how much he gets, when he gets it so that we can give him money that's little to those who demand the most money then let's go that way and let's say this is done well so far, the vision of the sociale is good, we need to have a single payment centre, because we're going to be paying and giving from one place, we're going to have some control. We all agree that social care centres should be disbursed in order to make less commitment to the administration and more committed to the needy, and that is precisely what we were going to do when we did this, and if we agree on those elements, let's upgrade and do everything we can to make it happen because we all concluded together that we are going in the right direction. If we now say in one sentence that the centre, the single collection centre is not good, if in the second sentence we say that we support this unique centre then what we think, which we can expect further on this issue will happen. Just more chaos than it is now. What's most important at this point, and the Deputy Minister would ask you to answer that no matter what you said earlier, we're paying the fees in 5 months is next. Since we have a single payment account under the current law to which fees are paid, that is, with 1.6. whether these users will receive that fee after 1.6. So that's what interests our citizens. Very simple and very, very easy to answer. If we tell these citizens that despite what we're now prolonging to 1.3 next year, they can still consume all the rights they've had so far, that they'll get the funds that the state needs to pay off on their accounts neatly, then we could have ended this in ten minutes. This debate only speaks of the fact that we have not taken the problem seriously enough. That this government didn't take care enough of that 1.6 and the possibility that it would come to this and the welfare centres had warned, so if we got a very good practice to sell on the phone sessions out of state property and replace administrations and what we didn't do instead of the 11.5th session of the government when the government adopted changes to this law, it might have been possible to change the phone session in the 2rd, 3rd month when we realized that 1.6 was very, very close to us. If you are now speaking to the deputy about how this is not good, then I ask you to come with a new bill of amendment as soon as possible, to come into the parliamentary procedure very clearly to say what and how you plan on moving forward with social benefits, to say that we will also have a single body of art and a unique collection centre and everything we thought would save us a certain amount of money because we spend it on a lot of things, that we will succeed thanks to these unique bodies because it's some kind of logic. An economy if you put something in one place that you have less of these other material costs, etc. But it's obvious that these material costs don't mean anything to us right now. We want it to remain the same. Then you need to come here, make a proposal for a new law, to discuss this new law, and then take responsibility for what you propose and what you adopt. If something saddens me, then it's that we're wasting unnecessary time because I don't think there's any law in this House, we didn't bring it, and at least something in that law isn't good. Let's not allow ourselves to criticise unargumented, spit, accuse, and anyone who comes to a certain function thinks he's the smartest at that point and that he's the only one who knows the answer to that question. If something was going to be done and if something was done and that first step is done, then let's be objective and objective just because only by objectivity and truth will we be able to move forward. If we are constantly changing the Social Care Act so little, if we are constantly asking our citizens to prove that again and again, there is no end to it. And people are just tired of it. So let's focus on the man, try to give this man what he legally belongs to, fulfill our obligation to the man we owe him. Laws that don't work, let's change in the part where they need to be fixed, upgraded to be better, to be more functional, to be more in favour of a man with less costs and less expenditure, and let's say we did a good thing. This rhetoric, I really think, is not to confuse our citizens, but to grieve and to say for a reason. We will vote for these amendments to the law. Therefore, it is not a problem whether these two articles should be voted or not. We all agree that there's something that needs to be expanded, and that's not the problem at all. And so I say with two sentences, we could have said instead of 1.6, 1.3 next year, because of that, that, that, and that. And we could already be on another kind of other law without such charges and unargumented charges for the individual's determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10345	Thank you. We have four replicas in this debate. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterparts Tyreli said hours of objectivity, that the objectivity of the social situation in the Republic of Croatia is what we most started from which we should start. The fact that all governments are, and I can especially see that you say that it is objective, and you subjectively defend the coalition on which you were on the "Croatian Growth" list is not good. So, all of the previous governments, so they didn't do well enough not only on these aids, but on the key issue today is that you have a social example, a problem of a large 50,000 people in Slavonia, which is the EU's funds, which the Commission told us about 2 billion kunas leaving means three of the biggest ones, which are the ones that have been affected, and the funds were just meant for small OPGs to survive. So let's say it is now, it's a new situation who's responsible for it? Is the MOST responsible, is it any chance in the last 100 days? Were you in the past term, so you did not warn that the measure that the Minister of Agriculture has taken means alienated from what belonged to the Croatian peasant and difficult, so we are now talking about 50,000 people who are at risk in Slavonia, i.e. who will leave Slavonia. So it's a whole complex. In Istria, for example, is there any crime? Yes, there is. Well, the audit report tells us about crime every time. What's going on? Nothing. A government that is now about 4, 5 months of course can do much better, much more, but surely some of us here will warn of anything you may not have had the courage to warn, you and in previous mandates also fellow parliamentary representatives who did not have the courage other than the theatre, subjective ideological-worldly topics that they imposed on this speaker. And surely our fellow citizens who are in danger, who are now watching us, who are looking at us with the heavy Or I don't know how they can even look at us. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And also once again, just to tell you in the end, it's very important that objectivity and a real situation, no matter what government you've given support to, i.e. in which you were on the list or the one before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10347	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10348	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, colleague Bull, it's very important to whom you and I are being supported. It's not just about who I support, it's about who you support right now and which government. I certainly never imposed a single ideological theme in my last year's term. And you're saying it's not enough to warn, so I'm going to use your replica to tell you, too, colleague Bull isn't enough to warn you. You and I and each of us Parliamentarians are able to put in a parliamentary procedure to amend any law that we consider not to be good. When MOST is in the parliamentary procedure in one term, if that mandate lasts for 4 years, but it seems to me that it is not likely to be given as many bill proposals as the Labours gave in the previous Parliament's session, I will first congratulate you and tell you that you have started to do your job and you finally understood what is the job not only of the political parties, but of every parliamentary representative, which is that only by amending the law with new drafts of the law corrects and changes what it feels is not good and what needs to be changed. Not rhetoric, not demagogy, not warning, but concrete things.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10349	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10350	Dear Vice President, Croats and Croats. What I'm going to talk about, I'm going to talk about the field report. One says, you can't pay me as little as I can do or do nothing. I'm going to talk about a situation where certain entrepreneurs are looking for labour both through the Bureau and through other institutions, and they can't find it at all. I can't find her because someone on purpose doesn't want to do what they're receiving. In what ways is it possible for certain individuals, therefore, to spend most of their lives on social services? So I did my best to do some research around the field, and then I see that someone came through some competition in a particular social service for the director, and then you see that there are a lot of new users who are on social welfare from certain structures, and then people say sign the card and you get a social. Well, then I ask a man who works, actually who's in Social Services, so I see him on a tractor farm out there somewhere in my own place or someone else's. I said how do you work, so who do you work for? So he tells me I'm working for you know who's in charge. And so there's a lot of examples. So I wonder if he has any control over the social worker who's very concerned about whether a Croatian defender has PTSD, whether his children had lunch, dinner, how his house was cleaned. I've had a chance to see cases like this and then talk to only one institution to complain about the one who works and the one who doesn't, the one who has such remarks, the information? Because we know how it works with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10351	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10352	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Culej, yes, there are many examples of how they are employed and how social benefits are obtained and become a beneficiary of social benefits. And that's exactly what I said, we need control, we need it. And that control we all have to be aware of, and we all have to strive to control you and be. Otherwise nothing will change. But what's saddest of all of this is what you're warning us about, what I sign everything you've said and what I agree with, and what social benefits are agreed with, because they're also aware of anyone who gets social benefits in that way we don't change anything by this law that we're talking about today. None of the things you've made wrong now are in these two articles. We're not gonna fix that with these two articles. That's what I used to say in the debate. These two articles do not change anything except that the inability of the administration or someone who has not done something that should have done so, in part and past part and present, because neither the present have worked in these few months what they were supposed to do with these two articles, we do not change what you warn about, which I warn you about and what is most important what the users themselves warn about are users of social benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10353	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10354	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Tyrelli, I followed your debate, and I'm sure she's certainly well-intentioned with a lot of empathy towards social care users. However, I would not agree with that part of your debate where you warn us that we have been discussing too long, that the law has two articles and that we could have finished it a long time ago because we have a very rare opportunity to warn, perhaps suggest something. I always have such discussions, I don't spit, I think I criticise the argument, and with every criticism I give my suggestions that can be both good or can or don't have to be respected. I highly appreciate your concern for social care users whether they will receive their guaranteed minimum fee for this break-up in dates, and I can't imagine at all that they would not get guaranteed a minimum fee or any of their fees, even if it was broken once again by law but this time in favour of those who are not guilty so let some others be punished. However, I also cannot believe that we are all slowly going over the fact that persons who have not been working for months or even a year do not receive their fees. These are extras for other people's care and help where our older people are dying, those are mothers who can't get sick in time for children with developmental disabilities rather than go with some pediatricians and fake pains to extend their time, they're disabled. So, from your club in the last session, there were warnings in that sense. My warnings are, let's not let this happen to us with a single compensation standard. And nothing more. And I also support reform and rationalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10355	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10356	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Murganić and I are thinking the same thing, so what I wouldn't like is exactly what you just said not to let us get their fee. And I have warned of it just as you warn of these moons that people because of some center, not some but because of the Centre for Single Arts can't use their rights. And it's not good for us here in this assembly to say that we support someone breaking the law. It should not be violated by the Government, especially should it not be violated by the Ministry of Social Policy and young people should not. That's what I asked for to be answered. Because if someone needs to get a certain fee and the law that's in force, we change it, and with the other law, do we do it 3 or 4.6. Will someone pay that fee illegally? We can't advocate that, and that's what we're talking about all the time. Neither I nor you, and I suppose no one in this assembly can imagine that those who have the right to compensation and whom compensation should be paid not to get that fee for some period or several days because these people depend on these fees and not only depend on them either hungry or full thanks to what they get. And that's what I think we all need to be aware of.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10357	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10358	Thank you very much. My colleague Tyrelli called me here last name that I was bad, I guess, that I wasn't saying right. You have given us a lesson in behavior and how we should perform in the Assembly and what activities we should take so that colleagues from the SDP don't feel bad or uncomfortable about them. Because I remember you from the opposition and the last call you did the same thing to that same SDP when he was in power with his colleagues and it looked pretty good even. Because I really remember my colleague, Lesar, a colleague of Novak, a colleague of Vuksic, were really prepared, criticized by the violent SDP government, said what was wrong, criticised every law in particular by those who came from the social sphere, from the social field, and what did you do in the end? What did you do as the Labourists? You filed criminal charges against the prime minister, you filed reports of a conflict with the Committee of Conflict of Interest, the whole bus was reported there if I remember the former officials well. And then you ended up with them in the coalition, on the list, and you trampled the work of those hardworking people who founded them, created the Labourists. They're no longer here today, and now you're giving us another lesson from the opposition that we can't talk about. We'll say what we want, we want this law passed, that people get their fees, and that what we have to do as soon as possible because the last government didn't do it. And we see what they've been dealing with, and it's up to us to say the same thing or we're out there because people today have false perceptions and don't know much about what's going on because the media has their own story, we're talking about what people are looking at by 1.30 so they can at least hear what's going on. And I was really surprised by my colleague when I saw what that SDP you're supporting today. then while the authorities were engaged. You have lost credibility, unfortunately, and have trampled all the efforts of your colleagues to form a particular Labourist policy in the past term by agreeing to be with those you have criticised again on the list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10359	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10360	I would like to thank my colleague, Vice President. And I sincerely hope that your former colleagues have heard you and will send you a telegram of thanks for supporting them and protecting them. The difference between you and my colleague, Boric, is always going to be insurmountable because you have rhetoric just to hurt yourself, just because it looks very, very good to you at that point. And that's what I reacted to. I'm sorry that you left, so it doesn't make sense to reply to someone who leaves the assembly, and it probably does, too, and it says a lot about a colleague who isn't even brave enough to listen to what someone has given him the line to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10361	Thank you. The speech was sought by a representative of the deputy minister's proposing respected Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10362	President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Tyrelli, I am obliged to report after your presentation because, according to what you have said, I should have kept my mouth shut because of these two articles of the law, but as a representative of the executive authority, I am obliged to inform parliamentary representatives, so that you too can make the best possible way to actually make a decision, vote or not for this law. I'm sorry that you didn't listen to my presentation at the very beginning where I made it clear why, how and how we think at the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. I'm sorry you didn't hear it then through this statement that we don't want to cancel the unique compensation centre and I haven't said it in a single sentence in this Croatian Assembly. I was just saying that we have to change the way, first think about it, and the possibility, or the feasibility of all fees. We have now touched the compensation of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, but there is also a lot of those fees that are not through the system of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth for their better control, administration and all of this we are talking about is a unique compensation centre. When you speak and you again emphasized whether you will and will feel the social benefits users who will not receive the payment of their social benefits, you were then talking about the guaranteed minimum fee, or about 103 thousand users guaranteed minimum fees. But you forgot maybe at that moment and that there are also those users who actually receive compensations for the threatened customers of energy, there are 66 thousand of them, you forgot the users of the aid allowance and care for them is almost 67,000, will they get their fees? So clearly and loudly for the tenth time today, I say that no social benefit user in the Republic of Croatia will be denied their social incomes by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not one user. All what happened to the users for social contributions was paid by 20 May 2016. What's happening now is that this law, should have entered into force 1.6, that's not going to happen because the government is going to make its amendment tomorrow and that's going to happen 3.6. So it's two days late. Nothing spectacular will happen and no one, but literally no one will be denied their compensation in the Republic of Croatia. And I guess that must be clear to you. And I'm sorry if you don't accept it, don't accept it, or rather say it if you didn't listen to me from the beginning in my presentation where I made it clear. And that we should talk about things that are, that have happened, why not. All that's good and what's good, I'm talking about the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, that is, social care centres. So they are not welfare centres if you want in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the first article says that the Republic of Croatia is a unique and indivisible democratic and social state. Social care centers were also in the former state, and it is known why they were and they continued their work. They're very valuable people. They're people who work in the field with users. Everything I talked about today comes from outside the welfare center. These are persons, social workers, psychologists, defecologists, logos that process these users, who are with them on the ground, who know the situation on the ground best. And that's what all the Assembly MPs here can testify because they come from these environments. Of course, in this system that it has and I said in my presentation about 579 institutions, it means 80 welfare centres, 34 branches, about 130 homes for old, powerless, education centres, associations that work with it, is one big system. And certain anomalies may occur. It is possible that some people in that system do not carry out their obligations in the way they should, knowingly and professionally, but that is not the reason. Remember from a month ago, the way we attacked those people. We at the Ministry of Social Policy stand behind every man in the Ministry of Social Policy because we know that they are doing their job on the ground knowingly and professionally. Of course, it is possible because of the lack of certain and analysis or I don’t know everything that can happen can make the wrong decision but it can always be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10363	Thank you. We have a replica of the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10364	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, I thank you for the clarification and for this promise that you made once again for the 10th time as you say no one will be interrupted. I listened very well to you when you had the opening presentation, so I reacted as I reacted because you spoke in your opening presentation about what you were going to do with the reform and what you're actually doing right now. And that's why I'm saying it's not always good to reset and move from the beginning. Because this is what we've been listening to in 2014, we've been listening to 2015. So we're not talking about something new, we're not talking about reforming this government. For however some MPs flee from the assembly when they need to hear the answer remember, so does one of us. So you're saying we're going to, we're going to, so I'm going to react the way I reacted because in 2014 we were going to change the law because we said that we have 70 fees that are in the jurisdiction of 8 ministries that you're now talking about, of which 28 in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and 50 other programs are running local self-government units somewhere. And we said that this is exactly why we're going to try to make these amendments to the law of 460 implementing bodies that are necessary for the realization of all these fees and 8 applications, along with 127 implementing bodies and one application. So that was the rationalization we talked about in 2014, which we talked about when we changed the law in 2015 and today exactly to your presentations that I listened carefully to in my debate in a way that we don't repeat anything that we do when we already have it. Let's do what we got, and we shouldn't fix it in that part. That was my intention, I hope you understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10365	Thank you. The reply to the replica, dear Deputy Minister Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10366	I understood very well-respected colleagues of Tyrelli. I mean, so you don't get it wrong. All that's good in the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and that should be one continuity. I did not speak of authority or previous authority, meaning one continuity that should continue and build on and all with the purpose that those who need it most and get it. To get to that, of course, you need to improve the system. It is not only about centres, it is about information today, it is about a lot of other things, new education, new conditions in these circumstances in which we are present and you know that they are conditioned by the most common and economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. When the former government passed the Law on a single body of art, we welcomed it. I think it's a good thing today. I am convinced that we should have a uniform criteria for art. What happened? What happened to RH? So at that moment when we put together two laws regarding rehabilitation, the professional orientation of persons with disabilities and the Law on the Single Body of Art, we got the Institute who at one point, at this point seems to me there are 38 thousand unsolved items with growth tendencies. 38 thousand and that's why it happened with both down and that's why a lot of other things happened and the question is what else is going to happen. But I'm convinced, I'm convinced, if it could work with individual ministries and the Ministry of Education and Sports, the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, so it wouldn't be possible to function as a single body now? What's missing? The administrators. We'll get them. Archivers. We'll get them. Doctors, consultants. And it can be done. So we just need to improve the system because of the users, because of the ones he's meant for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10367	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the SDP Club, Parliament Vice-President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10368	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Just before someone here at the HDZ Club said you need to talk about the loan because otherwise you'll be talking about people not getting their rights because of the delay in the law, and the fact is that this law is late, so if you saw you don't get to make a reform, the law could go a week before and we wouldn't have this problem today that the centres don't actually have the authority to pay any social compensation. Secondly, this reform is a reform that was recorded in the former government's reform materials because it was seen that the unification of the first four social benefits introduced order, saves the money from which the social compensation increased twice, and those who are the most vulnerable and these are singles and one parent family. Therefore, these coins were not taken from the budget as additional funds but were redistributed from those who did not actually belong to the system through the application because of one unregulated system all these years they received money. Therefore, those who speak of people who are going through the system today are receiving money from those who do not have the right to do so are not telling the truth. So you can take some statistical numbers and pull a small number, but you can really talk about people driving cars. It happens in the city of Zagreb where there is no control in the soup kitchen but it has nothing to do with the state. This is the state. The unique cash centre was intended to be the centre where the first fee was now to be united, so the first fee was to go to zm because it was the only one arranged, because it had the application soc care. The application should have been transferred to the public administration offices and when you talk about the need for social workers to do something about it in all EU countries, there are offices that do so, administrative offices because it is a matter of administrative compensation. Other things are a matter of social work and social workers. However, this is an administrative fee. You have a census, you satisfy, you don't satisfy. You have the right or you have no right to social compensation. So, no big wetlands. Social care centres that unfortunately don't have time to go to the field, go only in extreme cases, don't know most of their users because they're dealing with writing administrative solutions, and that's why we wanted to unload it and transfer it to the offices of the state administration that have enough people and something else. In these offices, the state administration would have so-called back offices. In the back office would be people from the system from which benefits are paid, so pension, health, welfare system, and we tested that on the write-off of the debt. So, on the write-off of the debt to all the debt write-off centres that we had formed ad hoc, they were representatives of the social care center, FINE and tax administrations. Every problem that happened to a certain citizen at that time was not solved by a citizen so that he went to the tax administration of FIN, but those people immediately solved it because they had a connection with their home, FINA or tax administration. At this point, citizens no longer need to bring any paper, eight key data is withdrawn through the Soc care app, so everything is seen through the information system at the moment and there is no need for people to bring anything else. So, with this reform, we'll see what direction it's going to go in, but I still think that the burden of the social care centre with the new four benefits that have nothing to do with the welfare center, maternity benefits, parental benefits, the child's allowance will actually just burden the employees in the centres or you'll have to hire new people as a new cost in the state budget and the people in the state administration's offices were able to do it neatly with a good application that had to be done because it's completely different from the one that currently represents only for the welfare system. So the introduction of order in these 78 fees could save an extremely large amount of money. Only on these four are we calculated to save about 600 million kunas because of what for example. The pension system has no regulated system informatively, they still prepare things well with work on microfilms, they have nothing to do with other systems. So, there still people have to bring papers, and since income censorship is one of the conditions for getting a child's allowance, a lot of people in our assessment go under the radar because they have a higher income in a year and it can now be seen through this application of JOPPD forms, so now we need to also import it to get a complete blood count and in some ways do order and in that fee and save huge funds. Of course, that was the way to connect with local self-government. We've been doing some rehearsals with local self-government. The fact is that there are a lot of social benefits overlapping, however, there are also a lot of good examples where local self-government units have co-operated with welfare centres and where they go to see which user gets, therefore, that cumulation fee can be sometimes really de-stimulating for work and therefore we have limited our fee to 2900 kuna how much minimum wage for people who work in those industries where minimum wages are paid unfortunately they are very much. However, there has been a lot under the radar of an article which, in my opinion, opens up a major problem, which is the power of the direct minister to decide on the prices of services for a particular home of social care. Namely, as you said, Mr. Deputy, there are a lot of people in the Ministry who are extremely valuable and professional, you have done this well you know the complete preparation for a new price-setting methodology, for what has been in the law for many years now, and that is that prices will remain until a public call, so according to certain criteria. So, you just have to take a step forward and I'm afraid with this decision that the minister decides for herself what the prices of homes and services will be, that you actually took one step back. She took it upon herself to decide the prices of her home. And my question is does this mean that some prices will be increased? On the other hand, my question is does this mean that some of them will get users who at the moment have empty homes, who have no users and who pressured me as well as I was a minister, to let them in so-called. a network of homes and thus ensure to them users whether those who are mentally ill, whether children, whether older people of life could fill their empty spaces in which they invested an extremely large amount of money and raised loans. So this is a step back. When we came to the ministry, we found a lot of unbalanced prices. For example, the minister who was then at the head of the ‘Spring’ association had a thousand and a half kuna more per user than other associations had. We sat with her as well as with Caritas and some others and dropped prices on what they had and all the other social service providers. When you spoke in the opening statement, you said that you would encourage civil society, which is certainly in the welfare system, an extremely important lever. But I don't know how you're going to encourage them because you've reduced 70% of the funding to the National Foundation. Many alliances and associations at this time have no money to function. Associations in the social care system are extremely important because in places where there is no institution, therefore no institution, which will provide support, for example, for children with developmental difficulties. Associations that invest in experts are developing, and it is very important that they have continued funding, because unfortunately they cannot survive otherwise. And it's the only help that in some smaller environments both children and parents have, so through certain associations. As far as home transformation is concerned, I'm proud of that transformation. You need to go see, so each of you should go see how people live in institutions and how they live in residential communities. So I let Stancic leave the home of a person who lived in solitary for 22 years. I don't know if you heard me correctly, 22 years in a rubber room closed without sun, moon, air, nothing. He was a destructive car, he ripped everything off of himself. You know why? Because he doesn't speak, he doesn't hear, he doesn't see. And the only way he could protest a man who is 40 and a few years old today is to rip everything off of himself and tie it around his hand or around his neck. The moment we pulled him out into the residential community, this man is sitting at the table today, eating with help from his assistant, going on a therapeutic ride, going for a walk in Maksimir. If I hadn't done anything else, I'd have assured a man like that he'd finally have a normal life. I think that's enough. Whoever thinks otherwise and thinks it's bad, let them say it in public. All the homes that are shut up in Ozlja and Chepin are homes where some of you would not let a dog live because such conditions were. So, old buildings, oronulas where employees work very hard already. Those people who went out, you know how they went out? They told me some thanks for going out, and I'll finally be able to cheer for Marsonia, and finally I'll be able to go watch the game with my brother. They live with the help of assistants, they don't live alone. And it's a big procedure. And we just started off with the hardest to break up this one stereotype where people thought these people couldn't live in a residential community. I can. Some of them no longer spend nor therapy, some have reduced therapy because they are completely different conditions for life. Yeah, it's a lot harder to work that way, because you have to commit to them, you have to teach them. They cook again, clean again, wash their own laundry. But these people got a chance to live a new life and a different life than the one that's in the institution. And finally, something else that I think represents the image of humanity and a social sensitivity. The dog, that famous dog Mr. Boric, the dog that my concern was in the ministry, no one got paid for it. I took care of him, he went on a trip with me, he was in my office, and now he's at my house, and I'm taking care of him by the end of this year. On the first test he didn't pass for a guide dog, he passed for a treatment dog. At some point, it will be the help of a child who has developmental impairment, who often does not want to perform therapy with either a therapist or with the help of his parents but who wants to do it with the help of a dog. I'd like you to hear the blind person whose dog died, who's leaving for work now with a white stick. When he had a dog it took him 20 minutes, now with a stick it takes him 45 minutes. And the man who tells me my bug didn't take me under the truck like a white stick took me, never took me to some hole that was dug up, so there was a tape around it, because by the time he got the white stick to that hole, he was already inside. So, Mr. Boric, I'm proud of all the people who are socialists, who raise dogs to be guide dogs, to be therapeutic dogs, so someone who's disabled can be helpful. And you can still have a problem with me and any dog, and I'm sorry that in this House it should be the one that promotes some ideas and some tolerance is heard by such back-end ideas. And I'm sorry that unfortunately the entire government of over two ministries decided for the first time to ban a therapeutic dog with a child from getting to the door of kindergarten. It's not a stray dog, it's a dog who lives with a child and who cares more about that child than you might care about each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10369	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10370	Comrade Opačić, of course it is nice to help a man close to his own, and each of us who helped must have the opportunity to help be proud and emotional of it. But here we are talking about the Ministry of Social Welfare, about our endangered citizens. You had one plan that was a trend in Europe, that means a deinstitutionalisation plan. As a minister, you started with the most difficult cases and people with disabilities. Could it have been better because of the whole situation, means people's education, that transitional deadline for you to start, for example? With children's homes? What happened? You enabled certain associations to contract up to a million and 800 thousand kuna, accommodation for the user was 1603 dollars. The same association also trained leaders, which means it was a special salary. Yes, this is the Open Society project of Soros, but tell me what the ministry will do when this project means no longer being financed from that source, who will pay associations and other means to all associations, and especially this association? Do you know how much money this is if we do this? And once again to all volunteers mostly on the ground, a number of soup kitchens, a number of self-services should be given great recognition when we talk about these things. Mostly the most endangered citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10371	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10372	Of course, we've taken the funds that we've originally begun to transform homes and what we are now, it's now something that needs to be continued by this government, these are EU funds. Therefore, there can be considerable funding from EU funds for this because the EU is now supporting the closure of institutions and home transformation. So, life in living communities. As far as children are concerned, we have a relatively decent number of foster families, they go far more into foster families than they do in this form of the residential community. But it also seems to me that we just opened up a residential community in Solin, where one 4.5 children living from a home for children without parental care. So we went parallel with each other. But definitely this category of mentally ill people is the category of think that at the moment was the least, in fact the most neglected, and that's why we wanted to get them out. Here's just on this one example I told you I'd like you to go see it, I wish you'd seen it while he was in that solitary room believe me after that you'd do just as sure as I'd do anything to get him out and offer him a chance for a completely different I'd say human life.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10373	Next replica, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10374	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My esteemed colleague, perhaps in my replica, I'll say something about your discussion. In fact, this description of one user who was in one institution really took me by surprise, and if you did encounter such a thing, then it was not only necessary to move him, but it was necessary to take some other measures. I am extremely proud of what social care does for its users and I am proud of working in institutions. I know that we need to go to deinstitutionalisation, that deinstitutionalisation is one step in caring for our users on a higher level, but all these users have learned is in institutions. And you know very well, I believe you know that if you've been visiting our institutions for four years, how many domestic atmospheres, how many spirit and love and warm relationship to users, and also those with the most difficult developmental difficulties. However, what I would like to emphasise, which is the result of my 35-year experience that will always be users who will need an institution and will always be users who should not and will not need to be in institutions. And we need to fight for a network of different services, not a network of different institutions. And what I have personal objection to deinstitutionalization, and it's not my own, it's part of the profession and part of my parents and guardians, and as agents in this House, I've come to think of it a little too quickly, at all costs. I think it was supposed to be a gradual step, and what's not good is that now because of the dispersion, because of the large number of living communities, we lack professional workers. Here, it's mostly my remark in terms of real well-intentioned expertise.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10375	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10376	I fully agree with you because this home transformation couldn't have worked if it hadn't been for co-operation with the employees at home. So they're the ones who were actually the main bearers of the whole project, they're the ones who have to work with the users, deal with the guardians all, with their family members. Without them, there's no home transformation. So the bravest in the whole story are the users who were able to get out of the institution because they still feel the safest there and change their way of life but without employees in their homes that wouldn't work. So in several homes we really had the most agile employees who did their best, and that's where the process went the most. And as for the fact that in some situations it was necessary to close the home, yes, I will remind you that one of the first measures was the closure of a school home, a home where people were really trapped in basements, tied up. So, what we found there, criminal charges were filed and more than 70 people were reported and some people were evacuated in one morning or moved to certain institutions throughout Croatia. But I would really like you to continue the transformation process because these people, go if you haven't already gone, go visit them in living communities, and you'll see that these are people who are completely different from what is in institutions. It doesn't mean that people in institutions took bad care of them, you just can't live there with the life that you can live in a residential community.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10377	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Deputy Minister of Honor Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10378	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I have listened carefully to your presentations because of certain truths and because of people who are employed in the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and all those who work in social care, we need to say a few things. Namely, you referred to a unique compensation center and spoke of a technical fit. I'll tell you, they may not have been able to inform you then or have not done one analysis about it, the Office of the State Administration, here if you would ask colleagues in all counties here, and even in the City of Zagreb, you would see that on the second, third, fourth or fifth floor, they are no longer accessible to people with disabilities, more or less. People working in the offices of the state administration are certainly not particularly trained in the field of social policy, and they can do so very hard. The fact is that neither the people in the centre and we talked to the World Bank, of course, can do it or handle those fees that are related to other state bodies. It's just impossible, it's not in their job description. But that part will be technically resolved but purely for public information. When you spoke about civil society associations or the National Foundation of Civil Society and you particularly apostropheed it, so I'm going to tell you a few things that, and I'm sorry you didn't support it in public, because you know that's not the case. We have asked for a report for 2014 and you have received it as parliamentary representatives here, and you know very well that every year we adopt a regulation in the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning the distribution of funds from gambling and lottery funds. And among other things, you know that this division is also clear to you because you signed it for both technical culture and sport, this year it gave us more funding for the Olympic years and then we had a part that was related to the social part, or humanitarian activities of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. And the fact is that we have increased this amount to our insistence, i.e. to the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, to take away a part of the funds. In 2015, they had 14.3% in agreement with Ms. Svetana Plavša Matic, who received 6.88% with the fact that they did not use 11.8 million kuna in the previous year. What is not correct and is not right by Svetana Plavša Matic, what she is doing now at the Ministry of Social Policy, that I will actually say this openly to a group of people with disabilities that because of the lack of funds he will not be able to call the competition and those persons with disabilities or associations will be left without their regular resources and will not be able to implement certain projects. Of course, one of those associations that I received yesterday said we'd miss some 100,000 kunas and we wouldn't be able to get those funds and those funds are related to hali therapy, for news respiratory therapy, for people who are 24 hours actually on the bed as well as this neurofeedback therapy and they need about 100,000 kuna. We asked them if you were reporting to the Ministry of Finance's competitions, they said we did, but we were rejected. So it's about 207 kids. Now, when we were doing an analysis of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development in 2015 I'll tell you they spent somewhere between 8 and 10 million kunas on alliances of people with disabilities, and you know that people with disabilities are very sued for alliances. They spent 2 million kunas on associations from the Homeland War and 31 million kunas spent on civil activity, for civil society, means for the development of democracy, democracy, democratisation. You have one project of participatory democracy of intellectually and mentally damaged persons in the election process. And that's why we've been giving funds, and that's why it gives the national trust fund funds, and it doesn't give these people with disabilities who need it. You will agree that we need to change that and that we need to help them. And another lie at the end about the dogs. This dog stuff isn't true, these dogs can get to kindergarten and they can get to a dressing room, therapeutic dogs. I wish they were with those children all the time with the disabled in kindergarten, but you know they're being taken over by the staff and I don't think they should and shouldn't have any problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10379	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10380	Well, I'm very glad. There's a lot going on here today. So you've just told me what a thorn is in your eye, so some civil society that obviously gets on your nerves isn't your obviously electoral body, or at least that's how you estimate it, and that's that. But if you want to replace Mrs. Svetana Plavša Matić, don't finish up about her being a troublemaker, associations are those who rebel, associations are the ones who talk. Change a woman without a problem, it's your legitimate right, but don't say that she's making someone sick because a woman is actually someone I think has been at the head of that foundation for 15 years. So never, she's not connected to any political party, so she's someone who's been and during HDZ, she's left during us. Therefore, see if you want a free wife replaced. However, the fact is that you've reduced considerable resources, you're going to now you've said alliances are the same problem to you and they're going to reduce considerable resources. So it's a good day for this debate, that you've said some things very clearly here and confessed. And that's it, so it's your policy and you're ultimately saying, Mr. Karamarko said that he would destroy all the associations because that associations were completely unnecessary. ... Well, somewhere around here it was like that, to cut the funds. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you know that you can't actually use lottery funds anywhere else, but you can just deploy them within associations. It is obvious how you will assign them, to those who are closer to you, and they will get more, those who are not very glad to you because they are talking about some democracy and you don't really want to hear it, you won't give them anything. And it's all clear. You have a focus on several associations but don’t choke the rest of the associations because associations really do a very valuable job. And once again, I'm going to say where there's no institution that can help anyone do that work by associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10381	The reply to the replica, dear Deputy Minister Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10382	And now I have something to answer about deinstitutionalization when you mentioned this person, the self-destructive person, then you said it was inadmissible for 22 years. And I think that you as a minister were obliged to do administrative inspection, to shut down that institution because otherwise, disbanded employees who should certainly be processed are working at that center, and that's a sad story. On the other hand, you need to know that we have complaints and plays about deinstitutionalized persons coming every day because I don't want to talk about it because I'm going to hurt a lot of people. The deinstitutionalisation project should go, it should go with children's homes, prepare a local community, and I think it's a noble project. Not like this, not with the most disabled, I don't think that was wise. But then, you will see this and will be told in Osijek, both in Ozlje and in Sisak and Ludbreg, especially in Ludbreg and in Rijeka and Zagreb. And not to tell you that people like that are left alone in apartments. I'm not talking about things that actually happen to them. But civil society associations, or the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. After the chase that took place, we had to speak to the representatives of the diplomatic crust in the Republic of Croatia because of a series of truths that happened. And I've asked these people a neat question if there's some kind of association in your countries that gets funding from the state budget. They said it doesn't exist, it doesn't exist anywhere. Why would the National Foundation for Civil Development, watch out for the Foundation, the National Foundation for Civil Society, as a foundation be privileged to other associations, compared to the state budget. For what? If it is already and if it receives these funds, then it can legitimately call a tender for a person with disabilities. So associations that deal directly with persons, no alliances, I'll tell you openly, no sterile projects. And as for democratisation, listen, we're not some kind of... For 20 years, we've been talking about democratisation to make us 42, some say 45 thousand associations where the National Foundation for Civil Society Development doesn't speak at all, and it should because something's wrong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, 42,000 organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10383	The next debate is on behalf of the club HSU and Stipe Petrine, the distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10384	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The social care law has provided a minimum fee as a new compensation in the social care system that combines 4 fees, which we have heard today. Support for maintenance, 2 defense fees and extended remuneration for employees. Such unification of those fees opens up the possibility of simplifying the administration, guidance and control procedures. And the last amendments to the 2015 Social Care Act took the first step towards establishing a single centre for compensation. The establishment of a single compensation centre was primarily established by a project plan for the implementation of long-term reform measures for the period 2014-2016 and, inter alia, the Law on the implementation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project of modernisation of the social protection system on the basis of which the Government of the International Bank was granted 70m euros. And I don't see the reason and what's controversial is why this social-resor thing that's really important wouldn't take advantage of it. The unitary compensation centre would combine the process of recognition of cash compensation, thus guaranteeing minimum compensation, maternity and parental benefits for the unemployed and children's allowance. This would allow for supervision of all benefits based on social protection and prevent abuses in the system of non-reporting of individual changes by the users you believe there are many on the ground. It would simplify the process of exercise of rights, ensure standardisation of the process and control of payments and create a basis for public policy adoption in the field of social protection. The responsibility of conducting the procedure would shift to the offices of the state administration in the counties. Since no organisational and administrative conditions have been established so far to transfer the competence of the entire administration of the guaranteed minimum compensation from the Social Care Centre to the public administration offices in which a single compensation centre should be established. The deadline was as you know on June 1, 2016. For some reasons, however, not all the preparatory actions necessary for the transfer of competence to the public administration offices have been carried out. And that is why the need for redefining the proposal to form a single compensation centre for the development of the model has been established. In addition, the date referred to above shall be extended from 1.6 and 1 June of this year on 1 March 2017, respectively. But is there any guarantee that this will be the final date? And what is posed as a question of whether the offices will be able to do this job for a number of reasons, whether they are equipped for that purpose, whether the staff of the office is qualified, whether the employees of the office are educated to work with such a sensitive and very vulnerable group of citizens, how the employees of the office, how they will detect, I would say pathology in the family or to recognize the disorders and difficulties that make it impossible for one normal user to live in the social world. There are a number of questions that must certainly be developed once again and I appeal that all counties should be actively involved in this because what is most important is the important voice on the ground. In prolonging, we need to accept at the end of the second, because it is time to make quality changes that will make it easier for users to exercise more rights in one place with less documentation or bureaucracy. The second point is to further amend the law amending and supplementing the social care law, relating to the harmonisation of certain social services prices provided by social care homes and services centres in the community by the founder of the Republic of Croatia in the social services network and in Article 95. The Social Care Act shall be added to the paragraph of paragraph 3 of this Article that the Minister responsible for social care affairs under the Regulation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article will determine the price of social services for a particular home of social care or service centre within which the founder of the Republic of Croatia is. Now, don't you think, I would also ask as a question that this supplement of the article was given to the minister to determine at will the price, including the Institute in the system of social services. I am not quite inclined to believe that this is progress in improving the provision of social welfare but perhaps you can reassure me. I'm allowed to be wrong. The social services network determines the number and type of social services needed for the Republic of Croatia and is defined according to the real needs of users who are recognised by the social service decision of the social care centre. Since the creation of a basis for the implementation of the new negotiation process is ongoing and requires a significant number of sublegal regulations, we believe that decision-making to determine the prices of social services is defined by the end of 2016. I would, of course, like to point out that this is at least the deadline that must not be extended because it is important to improve the quality of social services in all social care homes and the most needed users should be our first priority. The most misunderstandings in the debate we had here and on the board are to encourage the reasons for the increase in expenditure for social services providers, the elimination of benefits related to energy prices, lower electricity and gas tariffs, and since 2011 homes for older persons have been subsidising energy costs as a commercial entity. It is necessary to prescribe by the Social Care Act the equalisation of social services providers with households in payment of the price under authorised conditions for the use of electricity, gas and other energy sources, as homes for older people do not carry out their activities in order to obtain profits. Equivalence of social services providers with households in paying the price of preferential conditions for the use of electricity, gas and other energy products is aimed at achieving business, I would say security for providing services to such service stability by ensuring the price of services which ultimately results in the availability of social services to the user. We are witnessing that the increase in energy prices affects the formation or increase of service prices, the high price of inaccessible paying power of citizens, these citizens, burdened with the long-term economic crisis, certainly affecting the unprofessional meeting of the needs for social services resulting from work, I would say sometimes on the black and work of social services without a licence and on service providers with license, providing services with insufficient numbers or unskilled, adequately unskilled perpetrators. It is therefore very important that the competent Ministry of Social Policy and Youth enter into negotiations with the Ministry of Economy as soon as possible by the end of 2016 to allow institutions to function normally and all for the benefit of the end-user. And what I wanted to add is I'm sorry that here's today's debate comes back on and that they're down to what you are and what you haven't done and what we can't, and why that's just the way it is. So, switching from one side to the other. If there is no Ustasha on the one hand, then other things are found on the other side of the Partisan, and we should focus the debate on those proposals to find the best solution for our socially endangered citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10385	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10386	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Ilic, I would almost completely agree with your replica. We're like the day is already slowly moving away all together on the trail that we need a single compensation center. You said yourself that money was provided. It doesn't matter now where, it's over time. So the means to form and set up a center needs. We also need reforms everywhere, in the social care system in terms of networking and the availability of information. And what you've been thinking about in your debate, and I've been looking at in replicas and debates all along, let's see, when we're not in the deadlines, in this prolonged time, what we're going to do and how we're going to establish this center, whether we're going to make some mistakes, and all with the goal of being really effective and for the benefit of our citizens. You've opened up issues of education, expertise, and you've raised the question of whether there are computers, or information equipment and a lot of things. So these are issues that are now standing before the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and I agree that the past time has passed. We must all turn to the future together so we don't repeat these failures, because this is the same debate and this is the same approach you've had. And I remember when it was debated in 2014 about the unique body of art and you were, that is, your club suggests that this law has not been completed and you suggested that it go into third reading. I wish we'd been as thinking back then as we are now. And I believe we're about to learn something from this experience. As regards the price, prices refer to institutions where the founder of the Republic of Croatia, therefore will not be touched in, for the time being, these prices relating to the users of deinstitutionalised homes Excuse me. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10387	Replica reply, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10388	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Well, there's nothing to answer. A colleague agreed with what I mainly stated in my debate, and what I wanted to hear was from the deputy minister to answer my question about setting the price in the domain given in the domain of the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10389	Thank you. Second replica, Honorable representative of Milivo Spik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10390	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'd just like to ask you a few simple questions about your exposure. It is nice that the Croatian Party of Retirement also appears in such debates. But notice that you've been keeping quiet here for four years, especially the part that you say the state should subsidize part of the energy, or above that price, or above 20% of household income. But, Madam, HSU has kept silent for 4 years throughout the previous term of office, and even when the "Retired Together" block announced that Croatia will report to the European Commission for non-compliance with the European Union directive, as Croatia was obliged to adopt such a regulation on the date of entry which will subsidise energy costs for all those households that are unable to pay for it in view of their revenues. But then again, it's a good thing you woke up a little bit from this hibernation. I've already told you a few times, and I'm glad you're on your way. But also, I'm taking the opportunity to warn you that next time you propose a Christmas card to take care of how many people you're going to help, and how many people you're going to help, given that you haven't thought of proposing that supplement, or a certain legislation that wouldn't go into income censorship, so now you have tens of thousands of people who, because of 12 or 15 or 20 kunas more than that income census, have to pay mandatory supplementary insurance. You should have taken care of that when it was your time. But well that after four or 12 years, and you were in your previous term, it is good that you now remember that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10391	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10392	Well, esteemed fellow Spika, I had a debate on behalf of the HSU Club, and that's our project, that's our opinion, that's our position. What happened yesterday and what we could do four years ago, and we did not leave it to the Croatian foreigners of the pensioners. I didn't have a debate here to replicate politically with you, nor does it have any need for that. All I ask is that in these amendments and the additions to the laws, things are better placed in the social sphere in which the highest number is threatened and the users are just retired. And if you can't do things with us as one of the representatives of the pension Corps, then don't go to this House with eternal regrets towards Croatia. If we can't find each other together, because it's of interest to me that the pensioners live well, and I suppose it's yours, too. So let us take a course that may eventually be possible for us to meet up with some things to solve all the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10393	Thank you. On behalf of the deputy minister's proposal, the esteemed Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10394	Dear fellow Ilic you expect certain answers but I will refer to your exposure in fact. You mentioned immediately in the beginning guaranteed minimum compensation, you know that these were 4 combined aid and care benefits, then for the work activation or two supplies. Here is Mr Matic, and he himself knows how much trouble he has with the supply that was transferred from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Social Policy, and in fact she, as such to the defenders, was bad because they themselves were invited to work for the general good or to register their own property. And it's actually caused a lot of those revolts and defenders themselves. But the fact is, she's existential, she's proven herself to be good and why she doesn't admit it. And that through there as well as through other fees an asset income censorship was introduced. What you are trying to do is to improve the services in the homes for older and powerless and this other part related to Article 95 of the Minister's decision on price harmonisation. Namely, not only about it, but you must admit, I'm glad you mentioned it, in decentralised means total expenditure of all decentralised homes is 449 million kuna, the state has secured some 350 million kuna, and the county is obliged to provide 153 million kuna. This is for staff expenditure, for material expenditure, financial, etc. And in one part if I'm not mistaken, you actually mentioned in these decentralised homes a big problem that they faced because of the EU Directive, which is that energy prices are also paid as industrial electricity, and not household electricity, and in fact, they have not been profited, but they are constrained with the room for manoeuvre in providing services because they are enormously high energy prices. The truth is, I suppose you get that as well as we do in the ministry, asking these decentralised homes to do something together with the economy minister to actually bridge that part, or to figure out a way for them to return to the price as for households. And we're working on it, if we're gonna make it, I don't know. Is that some kind of selectivity compared to others I don't know. But also because of homes owned by the Republic of Croatia, but also because of private homes, someone today said that perhaps by raising those prices, by raising prices would happen, let's say that some of the users went to private homes. Look, we can't stop the private initiative, but I'll tell you these prices are from 2001. They sure as hell haven't changed. It should also be noted that despite the harmonisation of certain prices, some will certainly increase users whose revenues are not sufficient in fact to settle the costs from the ministry's budget will be compensated for all. But the price, for example, that I don't tell you the names of those homes, is today a single room of 1837 kuna. I'm talking about homes owned by the Republic of Croatia, in the second home of 1600 kuna, third 1200 kuna, 1430. The price of a diet supplement is 5 kuna, 7 kuna, extra serving food in your room is 3 kuna. I think after 25 years, it's mature time to do that. On the other hand, you as a parliamentary representative and tomorrow perhaps a beneficiary of one of these homes may be able to find the means to obtain a home in which the owner of the Republic of Croatia will receive for this price of 1837 kuna. But my mom or mom from my colleague Jakovina will have to pay in the private home of 5,000 kuna. If she has a pension of $3,000, we'll have to pay an extra EUR 2000 for her accommodation, which means we're making an additional pension, and we'll reward you with the 1700 kuna payment that you have, let's say, I don't know the pension you'll have 5000 or 6,000 kuna will be left with 4000 kuna. I don't think that's fair. I don't think we can stop this initiative. We will amend the rules on minimum technical conditions, standards and price harmonisation. I think it's also a small mini reform that doesn't feel right now but certainly will. This will give us greater resources to provide better services to our users who will certainly be satisfied, but also to those who are engaged in such an initiative, a private initiative will allow them to in fact not to make some enormous difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10395	Thank you. This is what we end up with, and I declare the sequel at 15.00 hours. Party at 13.25pm. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The individual debate is the first respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10397	Thank you very much. Here's something I should say about amendments and additions to the Social Care Act. Today, we are talking about a law that has two articles on which it has been conducted today, and I would even say a heated debate at some point. I personally support this law because the welfare system must function and that those who really need a certain social compensation should receive it in time and there must be no reserves. That is why I say I support both the delay and that it is proposed through one article. So I say in a regulated state where order, work and a certain kind of discipline social policy must be conductable without obstacles and without impasse. The developing countries, which want to lead a successful policy, know that social policy must work and that such a policy must be beyond possible plantings, possible discontinuities, non-disclosures or perhaps unworked jobs in time. Why? I say all day we've been listening to stories about suspicions, about the lack of policies, the lack of reform in social care, and the guilty are being sought, on the other hand, we don't know who's responsible for the situation that we're currently in when we're talking about this law. From the former minister, we heard in the presentation on behalf of the SDP club two successful stories about one individual, how successful it is, how all is well, how everything works while we hear from a respected deputy that the system is currently not effective enough, that it is not enough work done and that we should simply change some of the laws that the ministry has been working on in the past few months. We know how much social policy costs in the Republic of Croatia, it's about 5 billion kuna a year. This is what we have in the state budget and I think the Government has one single task to schedule it justly, effectively and to give to those who really need it. One single task I say, all that other state does in other segments and should do everything in the field of economy and economy that the state as a whole works. What has been done so far over the past 25 years in this welfare system? We have seen that politics has been upgraded from government to government, procedures and procedures have been perfected, and in 2016 we conclude that we have a certain level of problem again. Where can such a problem be read? I personally say I read it in many of the laws that have been passed over the past period, which have led to the total reorganisation of the social care system where certain different goals have been set than those that were in force until then. We all agreed on the first goal that was then presented to a better social system, a social care system. The second goal was to reorganize the system, so we're going to have a single body this unique body, that is, we're going to reduce certain procedures, we're going to change sublegal acts, we're going to change the whole laws, we're going to have a part of it happening in the sphere because the policy wanted to set up some of its people, I'm talking about social care centres in particular, so when you change something, then you change procedures, both laws and people. That's what happened, too. The third objective was to pay off everything from one place, the single collection centre should have been something that should have already been done by their projections in the past year's work, however it did not happen. For this, a law should be passed which will implement all these objectives into one content and it has been adopted and eventually to make it all go faster and faster to borrow the World Bank's loan because in this way we will speed up the realization and make all that we have foreseen through all other objectives. What's the score? The fact is, we're obviously late, I say in the past tense, and today we conclude we're not able and we're not there. What are we hearing today from those who were ruling a few months ago? We're looking for the culprit, we're looking for the one who's incapacitated because why isn't everything that's been scheduled to happen in about a year or more in four months? Why aren't we better off today than we were a few months ago? A certain amount of impatience and then the creation of certain issues of chaos in the public, each problem especially in the social area is raised through the media to the highest level and everyone is looking for a certain culprit and no one is guilty but the current government in the past three, four months. What was going to happen? We are with a 1.6.6. instead of a social care centre recognising the right to a certain social compensation should have been taken over by the Offices of State Administration at County. This was envisaged, however, today we postpone this by 1.3.2017. When the single collection centre was to be operational according to the statements of the then Head of the Ministry of Social Care and Youth, it was to begin 1.9.2014 with the funds from the state budget. That's almost two years. What was I supposed to do? First, they were to be paid through such centres of social assistance and then the child's allowance and the family's benefits, and eventually the unemployment benefits, because all these benefits are paid for now from certain other centres. Certain other institutions. To go faster, I said, and today it was a rather broad debate, the loan was taken, the famous 70m euros, and at the time when the assistant at the time was asked, and what would 70m euros after the presentation of the reform did not know, nor did he answer himself when it was clear that the reform at its initial stage cost about 20m euros. Then I say, he asks the question, and what about the other 50, and he says we put it in the Treasury and let it stand there, and we'll see which policies we need it for, we'll pay, we'll pay back the loans, depending on what the welfare system needs us to do, or what we'll have to do with it. And we come to this day that we have not realized what we have promised both to this World Bank and to our government then and to what this unique compensation center should serve. What was foreseen in that 70 million. 12m euros for computers, consultants, construction works, certain applications. 4m euros for defining business processes, investments, office renovations, etc. 2.25m euros for IT equipment, process development, application upgrades. Deinstitutionalisation of 750 thousand euros for consultants. Work activation of the 400,000-euro unemployed for technical assistance, project management of 600,000 euros. That's where those 600,000-euro consultants who could have been secreted by choice came in. So if they agreed to publish their name, we could find out their name, if they didn't want to, and of course nobody wanted to, then there's no names. We have what we have today, some kind of debate between the current position and the opposition who's guilty. I claim that the current government, the current ministry, the minister, the deputy minister is indeed doing everything possible to put this system in place as soon as possible and to get this started because we also see it on that other unique body, which is a unique body of art that is happening to us. We're unprepared again. Currently, 38 thousand unsolved items tend to grow from day to day. We just weren't ready. And then we're politically accounting here, or in public, we're making mistakes to catch a point in the former government's own mistakes at the time. Here's the SDP I've been saying for two weeks trying, especially around some, around children who have difficulty in their development simply that man doesn't believe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10398	Thank you. The next debate is individual. Dear Representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10399	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It's afternoon after lunch, so I won't be long, I'll just say some things that are thorn in the eye. And I've said some things before in the replicas of a colleague who has experience in social work, so I won't repeat myself. With the reform of the social care system when it started, it started with the intensities to improve and become more fair social benefits, that administrative tools made the function of the social care system more effective and more targeted towards socially threatened categories that were wrongly bypassed because they could not come to realize their right. And it immediately went with the fact that these 72 fees are centralized to see exactly who has the right to an asset price, given the property censorship who has the right to that cash compensation. So it started to make this system more orderly and fairer. And every reform requires funds normally to be efficient and to bring that system together in one place, all that information needed to be networked. So you had to invest money in information to connect. We have already had one part of the e-citizens and we know how these reforms have gone and what are the difficulties. So by centralizing information on who gets all the right to compensation could have been more justly distributed that fee. And now the question arises whether the formation of these unique compensation centres has weakened the function of so far's social care centres. So did she weaken the function of the welfare center,... the part of the jurisdiction in that administrative procedure has been transferred to the national administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the key to the question. Whether or not, and that state administration wasn't capacitated enough to collect all that information from the device. That's the key question. So, on the one hand, we've unloaded the welfare centers from the free administration. And I'm only talking about the right to compensation, I'm not talking about that unique body of art, that you understand me better. So on the one hand, it was in the administrative process to relieve part of the social care center so that they would have more time to go out on the ground to see with their observations who really needed social assistance from those centers from that part - round work they were doing. And in this reform, the creation of a single compensation centre was a preparatory action so that a guaranteed minimum fee could be introduced later or guaranteed. Already in the 2014 Police Attorney's report and we listened to both the other day and 2015. He said the guaranteed minimum compensation has not been sufficiently revived and has not shown adequate results in improving the social status of workers and not employees. So she didn't show her effectiveness in those who weren't employed both incompetent and disabled. Another question we can discuss is the bone of this reform, so Boric said as a World Bank loan of 20 million kunas and another 50 million euros, and on the one hand you're talking about euros and you're talking about kunas and it's been spent for, say, that million and a half kuna spent on the study, for a million and a half kuna study. Now, if you count that the World Bank will never give you any credit if you don't have the visibility and profitability and feasibility of that project before that. So when you go into some kind of project you have to prove to that World Bank that this project is worth it to you and then it's going to be funded, it's not going to finance the compensation, but it's going to finance the process of determining those fees, meaning structural changes in the system, the social care system. This will be funded by the World Bank, but when it issue some loans, it requires, under these strict conditions, that you have an independent consultant who will tell you how cost-effective your project is and how normal it is when they give you the resources to set the rules and that's why these costs become. I think that this cost, given the value of the project and the savings that will come from a fairer schedule, will be much more efficient and better because we will save money on those who don't need it and we will give it to those who really need it. This is the point of social care and we are discussing today, we have spread the subject and in amendments to the law, we have only two points for prolonging the time course, adopting that law or reforming the system of care. Now I have said in the replica that we have had enough time to prepare ourselves and to see what the shortcomings are, the system, especially some reform is a long-term process that continues from one government to another and should never be stopped. It can only be a little bit given the possibilities of financial correction but should continue. Let's say that we're not talking about social care, let's say the Peljesk Bridge, it's a project of all projects, a generation project, it's a fundamental zero political issue that can't be done at one point by the government of the SDP and the HDZ government, and once again, the SDP must be linked to that reform, or here this project ends. So in this reform, the reform went well with one real social sensitivity to get support for those who really needed it, and in order for that reform to come back to life, the whole system had to be informed, so the information from various ministries had to be united to see how much property we had left to keep from what some colleagues were saying to come into the social house, to get some food for someone with a expensive car. It means that these deviations in the system would be eradicated so that better control or administrative tools is needed to be applied to make the system more efficient and ultimately social compensation or guaranteed minimum social compensation to those who really need it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10400	Thank you. Replicate reply, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10401	Well, here's a thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, and I might just say two sentences to my colleague Penic. First, the reform needs to be carried out, it started to be implemented, but the first attempt at a single expert body showed that it was not on the right track. I'm not sure if you're a doctor, and I don't understand that you don't have to say anything about the body of art. We're all talking about a unique compensation center that hasn't been formed at all. I don't know if you know that colleague, then you're going to answer her to me, I don't know if you know whether the unique compensation center, I didn't understand from your debate, whether you think he was established. You're talking about him like he's been set up and he's got some kind of flaw. He hasn't been established. There's no such thing as a unique compensation center. He doesn't exist. So, these two things I wanted, perhaps in response to explain to me what your position on the work of a unique body of art that doesn't master a year of objects and other whether you think that a unique centre for cash compensation has already been formed so you're talking about it as if it has its own shortcomings.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10402	Replica response, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10403	I thank the esteemed representative Murganic. You asked two questions, the first question is the art center. I've personally been an expert, and I'm still a 25-year-old authorised expert, so I know a lot about that. The establishment of that body makes it...../Intruder on the side, you can't hear it. Let me tell you something. When that body was formed, it formed into several ministries. So it wasn't just the Ministry of Social Security but it was included the Ministry of Labour and it was a unique body of art that trained disabled persons, pension rights, disability insurance rights and social benefits. So this unique body of art was suddenly buried with a large number of subjects, and the welfare centres literally realized that that documentation they had and every year or two depending on the solution that was written by those users were just going out on the ground and writing the record. But the single body of art because of the accumulated administrative matters couldn't solve it. And the other thing, in the centres of, say, the center of Split was supposed to solve the center of Dubrovnik. A small number of executors were in that unique body of art. There's a problem. Before you were in the old system, each center had its own body of art which consisted of a social worker, a doctor or I don't know any other school specialists or I don't know any medicine. Second question of yours, I've said strategic definitions, reforming the welfare system. I didn't say it was made, that these centers were established, but I said what was the intensity of the World Bank reform project to get the project to finance the project. You got me wrong. I know, I didn't say it brought it back to life and it was formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10404	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Maric. He's gone? He's losing his right. Final address, Deputy Minister Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10405	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. I thank all the representatives who, in one fruitful debate, took part in the Croatian Parliament in particular in those who have exhibited on behalf of the club and those who have exhibited individually, to all those who, all of us who are interested in this topic, should actually be interested on both the left and the right. It is clear to all of us that social care centres are the backbones of one social state system, one state of headquarters in the Republic of Croatia, and this is the way to stay. These amendments to the two laws are necessary, they are necessary because it had to be simply adopted in order to extend the deadline. And I think that the unique Centre for Compensation goes on its way, perhaps something slightly modified or in any case with the same goal and with the same purpose of uniting all fees in the Republic of Croatia due to greater control, transparency or possible abuses. We must not actually weaken trust in the existing social care system. However, it should be strengthened and your trust and vote of this, the amendment and addition of the legislation that should take place on Friday will actually contribute to the confidence of social workers who are self-discoverying a large, huge job in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in implementing social policies, a social state such as the Republic of Croatia. And we want this system to be an integrated system, that the Social Care Center recognizes an individual without anyone intervening. We'd say from birth to death. Thank you very much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10406	Thank you. Here's what we're closing this debate with. Tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports at 9.30 p.m. Thank you. Session adjourned in 15.20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10407	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.64. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted an amendment in accordance with Article 199. The rules of procedure of this amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendment? Who's in? 78 for four abstentions and 44 against. So we will approach most votes to discuss the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment. Dear Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10408	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Welfare, with the final proposal for a law, provides for a delay in the application of the provisions of the Social Care Act to determine the establishment of single funds from 1 June 2016. As no appropriate organisational or administrative conditions are provided for the establishment of a single Centre for Compensation. In order to redefine how to establish a single compensation centre and the complexity of the operational actions necessary for its establishment, that date of transfer of competence for the recognition of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee shall be extended on 1 March 2017. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Welfare, with the final proposal for a law, provides for the entry into force of this law on the eighth day of publication in the National Journal. In view of the short time and the fact that the law will not be published in the National Journal and enter into force by 1 June 2016 and in order to in fact prevent the violation and legal certainty of users of individual rights and services in the welfare system, it is proposed that the entry into force of this law be established on the first day of publication in the National Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-31-0.u10409	I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 82 for, 3 abstentions, 46 against. I find that most of the votes have been accepted by the government's amendment and it becomes an integral part of the final draft law. As Article 2 of the final proposal of the law has a feedback on the same, the Committee on Legislatives was manifested. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure will determine whether there are particularly legitimate reasons for the return to action of certain provisions. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: there is an estimated reason for the feedback of Article 2 of the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. Please, let's vote. Who's to conclude? I'm asking for a result. 79 for, 6 abstentions and 48 against. I find that most of the votes we have reached the proposed conclusion. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Social Care Act. Who's up for the bill? Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 80 for, 8 abstentions and 48 against. I find that most votes have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act.
