ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17877	President-in-Office of the Parliament, given that today is the City of Osijek's Day, I would like to request a break on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB to warn the Croatian public of the difficult state of demographic and economic conditions in Osijek-Baranja County and Slavonia and Baranja in general. I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17878	Representative Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17879	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a break on tomorrow's International Day of Persons with Disabilities to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17880	Thank you. Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17881	President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the club I am looking for a break to discuss the issue of the Immunological Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17882	Thank you. Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17883	Thank you, Mr. President. So on behalf of the club, I'm going to ask for a break to point out the consequences of this unkind event of little Mirko Vidovic's death that's been over 50 days and we haven't changed a single rule. I will talk about healthy and healthy proper food and what our children eat in kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17884	Anybody else have any agents? Representative Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17885	I am looking for a break on behalf of the club MOST Independent Lists to discuss the situation of young doctors in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17886	Thank you. Is there anyone else from the MPs or the club representatives who are looking for a break? No, I don't. I'm approving a 10-minute break. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m. We'll continue to work after the break. Representative Josip Salapic first reported on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB-A Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17888	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Today is the day of Osijek, and as a representative coming from this city, I need to congratulate my fellow citizens once more on the day of our city but also on the real situation in Osijek, Osijek-Baranja County and, frankly, in the entire area of Slavonia and Baranja and Eastern Croatia. The city of Osijek and our Slavonia and Baranja in the former state was one of the richest regions of the former Yugoslavia. After the Homeland War, unfortunately, and the war-defying economies fail, Osijek has become a free city. Today when I come home on weekends at 9, 10 o'clock in downtown Osijek, you have a few people walking in silence. As a city, Osijek became its strength before the fourth city in our country, and today something else entirely. I read the data in 2013 of 6 thousand people applied to leave Osijek, Osijek-Baranja County in Ireland, Germany, Sweden and other EU countries. It is true that we have fought for Croatia's entry into the EU but also our country pays for education to these people, we pay for their diplomas and then my fellow citizens leave Slavonia and Baranja, with their expertise as highly educated people go to work in other EU countries. Personally, there is nothing against these countries, but I believe and firmly believe that the new Croatian government will first of all be the Slavonia project and other projects for our country will finally correct the injustice and this is the even development of our entire country, especially Slavonia and Baranja, Srijema and Podravina. Dear colleagues and colleagues Slavonia and Baranja our country, the unprocessed soil could feed us not all of our country but also EU countries. We have so many unprocessed countries, so many destroyed agricultural holdings that we believe that our government under the leadership of Andrej Plenkovic will find a way to help us if we need and donate unprocessed land to young families, to help them purchase machines and to produce unlike that food that has been poisoned, which they can freely call trash people have to buy at shopping malls. Our people in the countryside have healthy food, unfortunately they have no conditions to produce it anymore. And this is the task of all of us respected colleagues and colleagues to help Slavonia and Baranja in this time, the new assembly of both the Croatian Parliament and the Government. It is necessary to amend several laws, the law in the field of agriculture, the OPGs. And I say and repeat, we need to find a way to help our neighborhood feed the whole country. Only for comparison when we talk about the even development of GDP per capita in the City of Zagreb is 140 thousand kuna, and in the Slavonian counties 40 thousand, in the Primorje-Gorski County in the area of Istria, it is about 100 to 120 thousand kuna. If we are to be honest and realistic, it is my duty and obligation to speak as a representative from Slavonia and Baranja in this High House on behalf of the club HDS, HSLS and HDSSB until the moment we really don't help our country. I'm one of those MPs who always argues we're out of pulsism. We are responsible people, everyone has come from their jobs and their homes and homelands in this High House and Croatian Parliament together with the Croatian Government needs to find ways to help our country. All the research has shown that every third Slavonac and Baranjac is a poor man. If we come home and look at the people who expect some changes from us, what's going on in the last few days we want to change tax laws, we bring the reform that is necessary and the MPs are calling us to work for ourselves and not for our own ends. I am convinced that this is not the case and I am sure that the tax reform we are going to vote today and the new state budget will be a change. Our new prime minister announced a profound change in behaviour in Croatian politics. I therefore call on all parties not only from the ruling majority but from the opposition party to finally find a common political consensus on the national interest, not to co-finance our people's tickets home from Dublin to Osijek, but to help them return home and stay in their homeland forever. There are many living days for our country, many graves on the Holy Worlds are dedicated, visited by families and children of the victims, and I believe our country will find ways to revive Slavonia and Baranja, not that the former country had a golden wheat and that the new Croatian homeland does not have it. Once again, I wish my fellow citizens a happy day of the city and I am colleagues and colleagues who have informed me of the situation in Slavonia and Baranja, and I firmly believe that the new Croatian government and we will all bring together the right state budget and will finally help the people who expect it from us in the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17889	I thank Representative Salapic. The next representative who called for a break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is MP Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17890	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs tomorrow is December 3rd International Day for Persons with Disabilities. This day, people with disabilities mark different ways throughout the Republic of Croatia. They usually warn about their problems, their difficulties they face. There are few situations where there are positive examples. Persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are not particularly satisfied with their status, so we have a strong responsibility and obligation to improve this status. I believe we'll do it. In the first days of this government, we had the opportunity to see how the Resorving Ministry quickly solved the problem of personal assistants. That's how we have to do it and that's how people with disabilities expect it. I would like to point out here that yesterday, on the occasion of the International Day, a person with disabilities, the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has received persons with disabilities, representatives of their roof organisations, alliances and defenders for persons with disabilities. Yesterday, the president and ministers present at the reception highlighted the problems they are facing at the moment. The problems that are at this point I'd say burning. The prime minister promised active partnership to persons with disabilities through their representatives present at the reception. That's what we've been expecting for years. Usually on International Day, people with disabilities, politicians and the media, I would say, hang out with people with disabilities and promise to deal with their problems. I believe that this will not be so from now on, and this shows us this example of yesterday's prime minister of the Republic of Croatia. He promised people with disabilities as I said a quality active partnership relationship and a one-year reunion to reduce what we did in a year on the next International Day of Persons with Disabilities in 2017. At this moment, respected colleagues and colleagues in the City of Zagreb City Assembly President Mr. Andrija Mikulić also called on people with disabilities to hear the problems of people with disabilities in the City of Zagreb on the occasion of the International Day of People with Disabilities. Let us not forget that people with disabilities living in the City of Zagreb have the privilege of living in a big city where problems are easier to solve. And I would like to conclude that in this House of Commons, we will in one appropriate way mark the International Day of Persons with Disabilities on December 13th the Committee on Health and Social Policy will hold a thematic session, a session on the 10th anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Marking of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17891	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives, the esteemed Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17892	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I called this break to discuss the issue of the Immunological Institute. This certainly isn't the first time you've asked for a break on this topic in this High House. As we know, the Immunological Institute was a technology company that the government forgot. The names of his undertakers have been forgotten. Soon the 2017 budget comes to us, so I appeal to the Government, I appeal to the ministers who are concerned about this, as regards the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of State Property and the Ministry of Economy, to include the Immunological Institute in the budget and projections in 2017. The Immunological Institute is a company that produces vaccines and blood products, and should primarily be a strategic firm for the Republic of Croatia. But this country's political elites have been acting quite the opposite for years. So one company founded back in 1890 is now on the verge of destruction. The authorities have destroyed Immunologically, and to this day no one, but none of their colleagues or colleagues, has answered. It's time for that to finally happen. Because if we don't find out the names of the undertaker of the Immunological Cemetery and no one answers this company can build their future and can't continue production. On the contrary, we're witnessing devastation and frames and some kind of cold drive that doesn't actually lead anywhere. Just one silent fall, and decades pass. He produced immunologically years ago for the world market in the 1990s and was a respectable company that was an important partner to the World Health Organization. Again, we return to corruption, negligence and ignorance as the causes of its collapse from the 1990s to today. '98. In the year, the Immunological Institute lost its right to place its viral vaccines on the world market and that's where the car went downhill, and we can go back to conversion from '93. Since then, the Immunological Institute has been systematically destroyed by those who have led it and those who have placed their political deputies on directorial functions and in the Supervisory Office. The responsibility is borne by all governments and HDZ and SDP, HNS. These gentlemen were not protecting the interests of the Immunological, not protecting the interests of the health of Croatian citizens but their private interests, it is time for the Croatian public to know the names and names of all former directors of the Immunological Institute from Beck Academyman Vlatko Silobrčić, Sabina Rabatić, Tatjana Sindik Milosevic, Gajski and others. Their responsibility should be questioned by the State's Attorney's Office but not only by the State's Attorney's Office, but also by the Parliamentary Investigation Commission. The responsibility of those who protected them from politics should be examined, and today some of them are sitting here in the HNS, SDP, HDZ and some other parties. We have extensive documentation on this topic, more about it at the press conference at 11:00. I repeat again, this is not the first time that this topic is open here, but the Living Wall will not stand on this, we will launch an initiative in accordance with the Law on Investigation Commissions to launch a parliamentary investigation commission to come to the truth in this case and finally punish the guilty and to launch production and to return to the world summit where it once was and where it deserves to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17893	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives Zeljko Lacković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17894	Thank you, Vice President. So first, I would like to join the congratulatory card to all Osječan and Osjecans on their day of the city and wish them all what their representative, Salapic, wished them. What I wanted to debate today and warn the Croatian public is the fact that not 50 days after the death of little Mirko Vidovic of Bregana who died of salmonella poisoning from food, our institutions are unable to run or bring any measures that should be taken from this case. So what we saw was the Minister of Agriculture's insistence to remove all the health-dealing goods from the malls, but what we didn't see, and what we had to see is the adoption of new regulations and the large engagement of Mr. Kujundzic's health minister, who according to the Food Safety Act, quoted in this first article 11 directives and the provisions contained in it, together with the Minister of Agriculture, is responsible for implementing all measures on food safety. So we've removed bad food from shopping malls, but we haven't removed it from kindergartens, from primary schools, from college cafeterias, from nursing homes, we still have the lowest price criterion to eat, and we as a nation can't be healthy unless we eat healthy food. There is a difference between healthy and healthy food and it needs to be regulated through regulations and to protect the health of our children and all of us right now by prescribing that in a basic diet we all eat healthy food because there are preconditions. We invest more and more every year in national incentives for agriculture, we produce less and more, and that has its reasons. The reasons lie in not adopting regulations to regulate what kind of food is coming to the Republic of Croatia, so you can, for example, introduce a braid outside of Croatia... you cannot take out for a simple reason because only bacteriological analysis is conducted, and no chemical analysis of food is provided. We do not exercise control of cell oxidation and fat hydrolysis and when it is missing you can do something that is fresh food, which you do not know, fresh meat later freeze, later turn it into a Jager, when the Jager's deadline goes out, turn it into a Tyrolean salami, all with a blessing and because of the fact that we did not prescribe a chemical analysis of food. I call on all competent institutions to make this child's death a driver to protect ourselves from having an increased obesity, to have no increased diabetes in young people, to have no reproductive problems and to avoid all those diseases that occur to us, and then, later on, we all have to heal through the health system. Of course that would mean benefits for our agriculture. It used to be '59. For almost a million cattle in Croatia, 760 thousand horses, today it's only 300 thousand. We have the capacity to produce two million cattle and a market of 500 million people and we can only balance the deficits we have in food on the production of cattle. Among other things, I would like to take this opportunity to look back on the truths that Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash, our colleague, placed in the media yesterday, is not here, but she spoke of me when I was not there that my entry into the Croatian Parliament was financed from the budget of the City of Zagreb. It's a pure lie and a lie. I didn't drink one coffee from the City of Zagreb budget. I've been funding my own campaigns, I've been staying in Zagreb for 30 years. I've got two companies here. I've been an entrepreneur my whole life. For the past seven years, I've only paid 911 thousand 188 kuna and 20 limes from a kind of tax in the city register. I haven't even used a fee for the child that belongs to me, and the CNS is exactly the party of nepotism that turned Croatia's electricity into an HNS electrical economy. I call on all institutions to see if there is a publicly owned company that is to this end politicised. All of the directors' jobs there have been set up and politically motivated. Mrs. Dark Taritash has personally proven herself capable of nepotism. In the city organization, the donated land for the sick children was resold and earned and held accountable for it. So it's a party that has a very express view of mass seizing citizens' hands in their pockets. They also constructed heat discharges, they constructed and legalized unnecessary stamping, the sea of paper based on which they entered the citizens' pockets, they sold 53 June more expensive gas than they had to get at dumped price from INA, they created a system of power plants and entered all citizens in their pockets, I guess from the ambition of Ms. Taritash to become mayor of Zagreb. Willa Zagrebski Holding Turn into a HNS holding company. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17895	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17896	And I'm gonna tell her this every time I see her here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17897	Here you go, colleagues of Puh, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17898	The respected article 238, because I don't see this last thing that had anything to do with salmonella and a boy who unfortunately died of salmonella, and there was also an insult to other representatives and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17899	As for the fact that it had nothing to do with salmonella, of course it had nothing to do with it, but unfortunately, the institution of these breaks, we turned this into actually a kind of press conference. And you all use that, and you use other uses, etc. So I don't mean to tell anyone when he's talking from this pay phone what's on his mind during those breaks. I don't think that's good, I don't think that institution is good and I will personally advocate that it changes a little bit in our Rules of Procedure because each of us, every party can call a press conference and say what they think about the Parliament's room but here it is, at this point it's what it is. Thank you very much. And the last will be, therefore, not the last, in any case, but during the break, the distinguished representative of Ines Strenja-Linić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17900	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs, respected citizens. Somehow, when you come behind everyone like this you see that the topics that are also interesting, colleague Lackovic, have been touched, he forgot to mention wind power plants. But I would also tell him that given this situation and indeed called the thematic session of the Committee on Agriculture and the Health Committee where we want to sit at the same table and the Minister of Health and Minister of Agriculture and see what, where we are now, what activities we actually expect to see in action in the next few months which will change the attitude towards food safety in Croatia which clearly needs a thorough change. I wanted to say something today about positions, about the position of young doctors in Croatia. Because reading the media depending on who writes, you can’t possibly and actually understand what the problem today is for young doctors but only in part depending on who represents his own attitude. I will present to you the doctor's position in Croatia which I represent but especially today I want to speak on behalf of young doctors in Croatia. So the public has been mentioned for a long time by specialists in specialization and generally in a negative context compared to doctors. Ignorance of the system specialization, not only in the general public but also in part of the media, citizens got a completely wrong impression and doctors were extremely negatively characterized. So allow me the freedom to get to know both this high home and the public quite clearly what these specializations are and who doctors are and why it's stegmatizing today. Specialization isn't just learning and education in benches. Specialization is not studying, we finished our colleges before then, nor is it organized through lectures and courses. One word specialization is gaining experience with work, checking acquired calling, experience and dedication to certain discipline in medicine. Doctors who hire institutions in these institutions really do. From the moment the ministry is registered to begin monitoring his work, checking what they did for 5 years in a particular discipline, neurosurgery for 7 years and then before the committee of the ministry for the exam show their knowledge. The key is the fact that they do. Dear citizens, these are doctors who are looking at you in the emergency services of all our hospitals, those who contact you first at hospital, ask about your illnesses and who are ready to show your condition and your needs to their elderly doctors, specialists. They're young doctors. They are doctors who wait for you at night in their duty to help you and provide you with so much medical care. They're working. Why would I mention that? To the lack of doctors, especially general family medicine but also more and more specialists in general and county hospitals, the professional public has warned for many years. Young doctors wait for a working relationship for a year and when they finally get a chance to work and the specialization starts, they are welcomed by a relationship that has not been remembered since slave time. The institutions give them contracts according to which, after working from 5 years of age, they still have to remain in institutions for 5, 10 or 15 years. However, working conditions and progress in general have been systematically disabled by a poor organisation, both caused by policy or better put into politics. Working hours are not respected and overtime hours are not paid. Standards are imposed which are almost impossible to meet in quality and which can ultimately endanger patients who are the most important, who are the main factor of our system. Young doctors who are eager for knowledge and professional progress find their future through a public system in major health institutions, clinics and KBCs. When, because of the great expertise shown, they get the opportunity to do so, the system appears. The parent institutions are burdening them with compensation requirements in which, when there are no other options, they show the potential costs because they worked, asking the doctor to pay back paid gross salaries for 5 years of specialization. And institutions are asking for doctors to pay you back not paid but gross wages, which means they've been working for free for five years and they still have to pay for what the state and the rest of the salaries they've taken from them. We're talking millions here. In one colleague, it went up to 5 million kunas and a practice unknown to him that he should work 35 years to get back. ... We are talking here about millions of amounts and the practice of the unknown and in totalitarian regimes in history today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Imagine, you've been working for five years and moving on and you're asked to return what you've been doing. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Can I just finish for a second?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17901	You're way out of time already. I think you gave the message, but here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17902	So by going to Austria, both Hungary and Slovenia, young doctors specialize and continue to work where there is a need for them without any restrictions. Therefore, the solution exists but it must be firmly binding and in the inability to avoid application and in harsh penalties. So in 2011, at the request of a colleague, the Supreme Court decided that the salary had been paid to specialise in salaries for certain work. And that is the basis by which doctors today want to make a rule according to which they should return only direct costs of their specialization and not entirely gross their salaries. Because doctors aren't the problem, doctors are the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17903	Representative of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17904	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDP representative club in accordance with Article 248. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are seeking a break on behalf of the club in order to meet once again about the vote on this full tax reform, since all the amendments we have proposed have been rejected. We have until the debate on the amendments still had the hope that this tax reform could be improved, but given your position, we pray for ten minutes to agree once again on behalf of the club what position we will take in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17905	Thank you, Agent Grbin. I'm determining a ten-minute break. In ten minutes, we'll be back to work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:22 A.M.]] The SDP representative club has requested a break. I'd like their representative to give an explanation. Representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17907	Dear Mr. President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We had a need to react to some half of the vote on these amendments simply because we think and these days we said that this is a deeply unfair reform, so the reform that redistributes both income and wealth in the Croatian state towards, of course, those who have more, according to richer layers. Here we tried to amend it in different segments to fix it but it seems not to fix it. We simply don't see the point of proposing amendments and that they all turn down the list. So I just want to mention that we have a problem with the fact that only 2% of people will profit from the change in income tax, that in the area of profit tax, total regional policy and incentives that have so far been made to entrepreneurs in less developed areas, that relief for the purchase of first real estate is lifted, mostly for young people, to go through this reform in a certain way, to make concessions to banks in terms of recognising their write-offs as tax reliefs and that at the same time we have no guarantee that these same banks will not sue the Croatian government and the state in the case of the Swiss franc, etc., etc., that I am not repeating everything we have been saying here for days. However, the highlight of the story is this relationship to a single sector that should pay for this reform over a billion kuna, which is the tourism and catering sector. Doesn't it sound absurd that at the moment we announce the growth rate for 3 quarters of 2016 which is the highest so far and which has to the greatest extent contributed to the tourism sector that this same sector is currently being punished by this reform. And that he alone should bear the cost of this reform. So we expected a lot more from you, we expected you to accept at least these compromise proposals because it is simply unacceptable that on the one hand, you plan as much as 5 billion growth in expenditure next year and that at the same time a billion kuna is taken to the sector that has invested most, most employed and contributed most to economic growth in the last year, two days. It is a message to both the Croatian public and here to us sitting, it is not a good approach. So, the particular problem is for those people who have invested these years, who are paying off loans and who simply can't plan clearly now on how these loans will be returned because they will be taken at least 12% of their income through increased VAT. So one new uncertainty, one unfavourable situation that will certainly take that sector back. So these investments that have doubled in a couple of years from 2 to 4 billion kuna and more than that will surely go down again. I can only say, I don't know when it will be, and it would really be irresponsible to predict it, but the moment that we will possibly be able to decide on it, we will surely return this rate to an old level, to a level of 13 or less. And what we're sure to do is to reduce VAT in the accommodation sector as well. It is a policy towards the winning sectors, according to sectors that are the key cornerstone of economic development policy in this country. And that's why I can only say on behalf of the SDP club here that we have concluded that it just doesn't make sense to participate in this story because we know that all the other amendments that follow will be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u17908	I thank the Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21508	Here, please. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to stick to the weather. Now we're finally going to get to the first point as we've imagined it in our program. The first point is: - Final proposal of the Law on measures to reduce the costs of high-speed electronic communications networks, emergency procedures, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.41. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. Contributions to the proposal are not multiplied but are located on the Croatian Assembly website. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and their reports were received at the session. The amendment was tabled by the Committee on Legislatives, would the applicant's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21509	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear parliamentary deputies and MPs are before you, as the Vice-President has said, a draft bill on measures to reduce the costs of high-speed electronic communications networks. This law transposes Directive 2014/61 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks as soon as Croatia's legislation is in line with the EU acquis in the field of high-speed electronic communications networks in order to remove obstacles to the deployment of these networks primarily relating to the high cost of construction works to the inefficient and insufficient use of existing infrastructures that are primarily not intended to set up electronic communications networks on the absence of a single database on existing physical infrastructure and on the non-coordinated occasion of construction work to set up high-speed electronic communications networks. Those obstacles are most affected by public communications network operators and by legal or natural persons who make use of physical infrastructure intended to provide services for the production, transmission or distribution of gas, electricity and heat, water and waste water, as well as natural infrastructure managers intended for the operation of rail, road, river, maritime and air transport, etc. Network operators. This law regulates the following fundamental issues: the introduction of an obligation to provide access to the physical infrastructure of network operators, it is appropriate to set up high-speed electronic communications networks on the basis of the requirements of public communications network operators, the introduction of accessibility and transparency of basic data on existing physical infrastructure through a unique information point, which will provide and provide State Geodetic Administration, the establishment of coordination of construction works by means of a single information point, the pooling of information on the conditions and procedures for issuing permits for construction works through a single information point, which will ensure the transparency of data on planned construction works, and the regulation of procedures for the settlement of disputes in relation to access and joint use of physical infrastructure, access to information on the terms and procedures for the issue of construction works through a single information point, which will provide the Ministry of Civil Engineering and regulation of disputes in relation to access and the common use of physical infrastructure, access, access to the physical infrastructure, access and access to the infrastructure of construction data in order to local data for the operation of construction of construction, as well as in relation to civil works. The adoption of this law achieves a fundamental objective of reducing costs and facilitating the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks, which further encourages and accelerates the achievement of the set objectives of the Digital Agenda for Europe. The specific objectives of the joint use of existing network operators' physical infrastructures are also achieved which will significantly reduce the need for construction work, reduce unnecessary multiplication of construction works, related costs and environmental impacts, increase data transparency, increase competitiveness and quality of electronic communications services provided in the market, and achieve the digitalisation of the public sector, while reducing public administration costs and providing more efficient digital services to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21510	Thank you very much. You probably didn't assume but there's a replica. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21511	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. What is most important to our citizens and what should be said here and perhaps something that is in your portfolio one of the most important things with of course road infrastructure is traffic infrastructure and this infrastructure. Croatia currently has the slowest Internet access in the European Union. The third slowest in all of Europe, only Albania seems to me and Kosovo has a slower Internet than we do. And on that side of information that Croatian citizens are interested in and it would be good to get it at this point, what is the speed of Internet access, and what will be in the coming years and what are the plans. I would honestly be most fortunate if Prime Minister Plenkovic put it as one of his government's priorities and would call a meeting with operators to see how to increase speed because we know that here you have also given information that Croatian citizens as EU citizens and that the EU plan by 2020 is that we have access to the internet of 30 megabits per second. And at least 50% of households have access to the Internet and a subscription with at least 100 megabits per second to tell you in Croatia that these speeds move around 5 and below 5. In the middle of Zagreb, infrastructure is not correct to support even higher speeds because we still have tens of thousands of our citizens in the city of Zagreb who are connected with copper wires. And here if the major traffic was released he's not stable. So that's what we're interested in, and that's the information that you should be telling us. How fast we have today, and what speed we're going to have in four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21512	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Oleg Butkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21513	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. You are right when you say that the speed of the internet in Croatia is not satisfactory and that we are here at the bottom of the EU. According to Croatian Network Activities Regulatory Agency for September 2015, only 52.09% of households in the Republic of Croatia use 2 megabit access rates where less than 1 and a half percent of households are used at high rates of access of 30 megabits per second and more. [[Intruder Reiner: Please be quiet so the minister can answer.]] So the current situation isn't good. In the sixth month, the government adopted a strategy and framework programme, and this law, which is before you today, is the aim of implementing this law, except for reducing the costs and facilitating the setting of high-speed networks to achieve the Digital Agenda's objectives by 2020, access to the Internet at least 30 megabits per second. That's the basic goal. And secondly, at least 50% of RS households use internet access at least 100 megabits per second. Now it may seem very optimistic at this point, but this passing of this law will also make it easier to refer to operators, but also to implement strategies and framework programmes. So here I believe that in the next period all of these goals will be achieved in the next four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21514	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21515	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. So I have one remark that might be dealt with in this emergency procedure through the amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. When setting prices, the Agency will take care of the uniformity of the prices of all network operators for the use of physical infrastructure and shall, for that purpose, be obliged to adopt a special Regulation within 60 days of the entry into force of this law. And the reason is that in order to avoid the unpredictability of the price of use of physical infrastructure from different network operators, it is necessary to adopt a Regulation that will cover all real costs of network operators, and based on that information to determine the uniformity of the price of use in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, taking into account the possibility of predicting the ultimate price of the service of the public communications network operator. Therefore, prices should be even because this ensures the basic intention of the Digital Agenda that equal service should be provided to all. And if prices are not even for example in Zagreb, Sinj, Metkovic, Petrinja may not be worth investing in the development of the network in those environments and then we haven't solved anything with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21516	Thank you. Dear Minister Oleg Butkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21517	As far as your proposal is concerned, he's gone too far and to say he's holding water under quotes. But we need to see if it is in line with the directive, because we cannot in any way question whether this law is in compliance with the directive. So here, I'm sorry that your proposal came at this point because the law is practically there. But here, if there's a possibility, we'll consider it until the vote to put it all together. But I'd like to ask you to deliver it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21518	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21519	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary. As the Vice-President of the Parliament said, you may not have expected replicas, but perhaps it was better that there was a replica when our Croatian telecommunications surrendered to the foreign hands of what the generations were creating. Unfortunately, very little was heard in Croatia at the time. Of course, it is necessary to improve telecommunications, that it should be possible to enable all those interested to set the cables on the same track. And my question to the Minister how much of the right of service from tele operator or those who provide services to citizens, how much of the right of service is Croatia's Republic to the state budget incomes and how much income in local self-government and has it been decided where the teleoperate communication routes are going at all, has property legal relations been resolved at all, and in what percentage have they been solved? Because the fact that by law and cities and legal persons and states in their possession has the right to claim the right to collect services in that area where it goes. Can you answer me if this is very important? And in the end, is this all going to be the end-user's cheaper service price, which is very important? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21520	The respected Minister Oleg Butkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21521	So the answer to your question about how much was paid to the Croatian budget according to HACOM, somewhere more than 900 per cent, about 900 million kuna, is paid. However, I agree with you that the issue of local self-government and the rights of service should be resolved because many cities and municipalities do not have these revenues yet, and we, together with HAK, and with operators who have been obliged to pay the service, have opened the talks and are looking for solutions to come to them as soon as possible, because many mayors and mayors have spoken to me about how they have lost their income due to the various blows they have experienced these years, this would be one significant income, and in that sense a solution is sought to find them as soon as possible, and there is a legal possibility or obligation legally to resolve this as soon as possible, so that I believe that in the coming months we will have an answer when the guards and municipalities can count on these revenues, although they already have the right to do so. Some of them are already making it happen. And as far as I'm concerned, the aim of this law is to make the end user pay as little as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21522	Thank you. We will now move on to the representatives' clubs and the first one is the HNS-HSU in the name of which the distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21523	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. HNS and HSU will support this bill. I will try very briefly to express our position on the proposed law. In addition to, of course, harmonizing with the EU directive, we must first of all support this law for ourselves and for the possibility of speeding up the process of building a broadband network in the Republic of Croatia because it is already highlighted in the comments of some colleagues. In fact, Croatia from that time where it was very much invested in this infrastructure before Croatian Telekom was sold, to this day, at some distance for more than a decade, there has been no significant investment in this infrastructure, above all, in this optical one. This also leads to the fact that we are lagging behind some EU average at this point. In order not to spread the topic too widely because, of course, the topic is broad and very interesting with different positions primarily from the position of our citizens, which is that in one good part of Croatia means in these bordered rural areas where there is unfortunately no commercial interest in investing in such a network, there must be urgent solutions that this network is easier, cheaper and with the support of both countries and local self-government, but, above all, the possibility of withdrawing funds from the EU to introduce such a network, so that in these rural areas, border areas can get a high-quality broadband network or broadband internet, and to allow those people in these areas to engage, and also in economic business processes that are very closely connected with the Internet today and the possibility that in those areas, border areas, they remain and do certain work where they are. These projects are already in some parts of Croatia at a very advanced stage. Some of the counties, some of the regions have already included strategies and projects through local and regional self-government. I know specifically in my region of coastal-goran and in Istria it is already at a very high stage and we are able to apply these projects for EU funds very nearly. But we are meeting precisely these problems or similar problems, so this is not just a problem that when another public network is being built, it means whether it's a gas pipeline, whether it's a water line, or a sewerage, that these works are not being done at the same time as setting up optical cabals. The problem is that we still can't coordinate in our units of local self-government or what I mentioned, so when you do water to do something else parallel if it means either a gas network or something else, it means we're doing jobs at the same time. Well, then what our citizens are most often exposed to in the area of local self-government is that we build a new road and first we lay down a pipeline, then half a year after the pipeline, then the power, the phone, and I don't know what, so we dig three, four, five times, and then after five years we don't have a road, but we have a caldrum. But that's a minor problem, a bigger problem is that it's a huge cost and we're wasting our time. So, in any case, everything that goes into practice to bring it into line, but not only about laying down this optical network, but about the whole infrastructure, to bring it together, and to speed it up, and to make it as simple as possible, because knowing what the situations are like when any infrastructure network is being done, I'm afraid that this supplement now and this legislative proposal will bring in further confusion, or to complicate things again, means we need to make implementing instructions on how to do it as high-quality as possible in order not to cause problems on the ground or to stop certain projects for the sake of this law. So it could happen that they're stopping. I specifically had a recent example because and now there is an obligation to seek the consent of HACOM when any infrastructure is laid in the hull of the road. Well, here we have recently had this particular problem of whether or not a telecommunications network is drawn in the project and stopping actually building permits for something else entirely. So this coordination is defined with some instructions within the Ministry and the Construction Department, but other competent ministries need to be better defined to speed up the whole thing. The lower price, we hope all the lower prices but what, that is, the cost of costing, of course ultimately and the lower price. However, my colleague, I think he's already stressed here in the replica, this relationship between the state's constitution, the state's policies relative to our operators, may not have a very clear, clear view. In fact, I think all these operators are obliged to invest in infrastructure as far as the commercial part is concerned. This law will surely try to make it easier for them. However, the part where they avoid it, where the whole system is already so burdened with multiple operators on the same network and with each other's blackmails, so our citizens per month and two days wait when they need to move from one operator to another operator, when the quality of services is unequal, when operators, all operators don't have the same position, I think it's something that's really urgent to resolve from the position of the ministry's competence. However, I wouldn't go further, I don't think it's a small step, but a step towards speeding up these processes and finally making faster investments, because often right now operators say we don't have the support of the state, we don't have the support of the system, so we're not able to do the investments we've committed to. Here's one small step where let's say such arguments come out of their hands. However, there is still a whole series of things to do to raise the entire network in Croatia to one higher level, or to one of the standards that the EU has on average. I'm particularly saying, I'm stressing at the moment when actually public investments happen, that is, these projects, some of these regional projects that are already being prepared, so to speak. E-counties where in these rural areas, border areas that are not commercially set up that network should be. In all of this, I think that the state must have a proactive position, the possibilities are high, the funds are in some way already reserved in EU funds. So I think the last one is even to simplify the story and make it possible for the public sector, so local self-government units to invest in that network. Even by simplifying the use of copying licenses, i.e. setting up the network itself. Here's a colleague of Taritash, she may be a little different from me, but these infrastructure procedures are really relatively small, so they're not large in terms of digging big channels. And if these units of local self-government are investors with the help of European funds, I think it must be made possible in these areas as easily as possible to carry out these works and obtain permits for these works because what they say is 5 behind 12 and not 5 to 12 as far as these infrastructures are concerned in such areas. Here, support for this and thinking towards supplementing the new legislative proposals as soon as possible, not only from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs but also from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, so that such transactions and such investments are accelerated especially when the investor is a de facto public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21524	Thank you. And we have a few replicas for your exposure. He is the first to represent Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21525	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Turina-Đurić, here I see it and here I am from the debate yesterday when we talked about real estate tax and today when we talk about this law and this law should certainly be supported, it seems to me that it is worth the saying, there are no urgent things, there are only people who are late. We are a nation that is small but is, we are successful in sport, we are successful in science, maybe you don't know that. 30 years ago, the factory of Jugoturbin, watch out 30 years ago, introduced optical cables for the transmission of digital data, and that this kind of transmission was not sensitive to welding, so those interferences that occurred during welding. And this law when we speak in principle he's good. However, in a technical sense, it will be difficult to implement. My colleagues Turina-Đuric, you say that local self-government units need to be busy because it is not difficult to dig a trench, but I assure you, it is very difficult to dig a trench, regardless of what you put into it, you must respect a certain procedure. And what's the biggest problem, I see it so I see the problem of public procurement so someone gets a job and then takes a co-op, and then one of the cooperatives goes into bankruptcy, and then another cooperative comes in, and then this other cooperative works for a while, so he bypasses the project because it's a little harder to dig up the road, so he's gonna go up there a little bit along the creek. We're getting to the point where we don't know where the waters are going anymore. It's a big problem in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if in all the middles, in Slavonia I know that. And in that sense, there will be a bit of a difficult situation for this law, but the law should certainly be supported. And finally, let me just say, you see, we're a country of everything specific, I say in a lot of things we're behind, the only thing that we're advanced in the world with us managers get bigger bonuses than the ones that deserve the Nobel Prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21526	Thank you. Here will be answered by distinguished representative Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21527	Of course, dear fellow I think that in my debate I have also pointed out possible problems, I mean possible problems, namely, as we often do in many resolutions, excellent laws, but unfortunately either inconsistencies or sometimes with a desire to do good, we do not implement them in the way that we should. That's why I warned that other than the law means in the act itself, so it's always a question of how the law will go on. And that's when you get to that stage that some kind of project is being done on the ground, that there's some other network that doesn't matter. And today you have this situation that means you have to ask for some consent. If this is going to speed up the whole story and of course the suggestion is that it will, then it should be supported. However, law enforcement should also go on to mean that the last literal reference working on it is clear what makes it possible to do this process as quickly and as efficiently as possible, and that the purpose of the law is precisely to implement the project as quickly as possible. Of course it will be safe at the beginning of the problem, but here we must always be optimistic. We are passing laws here the EU is forcing us to do this, I stressed in my debate that we are still not often in line between our utility companies that perform certain works on the network, so here may be the incentive to arrange some things in this work even though there is, I know that there is a obligation to coordinate with each other. However, what is in the field is that we see that unfortunately or hard to coordinate and sometimes not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21528	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21529	My colleagues Turina Đurić agree with you mainly for these rural areas i.e. Undeveloped ends that are...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21530	Comrade Bull, you are not the only Miro. I asked my colleague Mira Totgergelai and you're behind him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21531	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, fellow Bull. Dear colleagues, with most of what you said, I agree. At one point you said that this law could introduce confusion or something like that, now through this reply to the replica you've been a little bit corrected. I think the law is actually very good and it gives opportunity. And whether there's going to be confusion or not depends on good governance is sometimes a unit of local self-government. Those who have well run the projects that are already under way have also predicted and invited all operators to participate in these projects along with them. Well, then there won't be any problem when these, when this law comes into force because they're part of the majority that's been prescribed to do their own work here. For example, I know that in some cities ten years ago, the problem was to generally persuade local self-government to get all the operators into some road reconstruction together and reduce the total costs. Today, I think that in these same cities over ten years they've already come to the fact that they're actually inviting operators before they start to invest so that they all work together on a particular section of the road or road. And by doing so, you've all cut each other's costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21532	Thank you. The distinguished representative Turina-Djuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21533	Yes, you're a respected colleague of yours. It is precisely the activity and proactiveness of local self-government that perhaps there is a key moment that first of all is preparing, it is planned to prepare for such investments that will take place in their field but also in some way insist on what we have talked about, and some colleagues have mentioned before, and that is that when it comes to certain units of local self-government trying to cover the entire space of these units of local self-government because unfortunately this infrastructure network that we are talking about here is currently being done and most often being done in me would say to the central parts, and very rarely or less often on these edges. Well then, in this law it won't be so much covered but with projects offered to us or the possibilities of applying the projects offered precisely for those border areas. I think the local self-government units have great importance together with the counties to plan quality, invite operators if there is any interest. Unfortunately, in one good work there is no but prepared projects and then applied these projects towards the EU and the funds, together with the ministry, to do the big job in order to significantly increase the quality and infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia over the next 4.5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21534	Thank you. Here's a word for the distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues would agree with you that in areas mainly rural or border areas absolutely and there is no possibility of the Internet if it has a very weak Internet, the Internet that simply falls and slows is so much that it is simply unusable and mainly for very important things like a fast Internet important for the development of the economy, and for every citizen. The fact is that in Croatia and all cities you have also said the same thing, every two months we see the streets being dug up. It's just amazing! I don't think that's happening anywhere else and everyone, so they always look like neat streets because they're paved by what shouldn't be paved. Then everyone complains there's no funds in the budget. That's why this law-intention is good. But we need to know that this segment is very important for local self-government, and that's what I mentioned for the first time and that's the right of service. Very little we take from those who got from our tycoon who later became even employers' bosses,... For free they got a set of telecommunications infrastructures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And simple urban, municipal, local self-government simply doesn't have enough resources for certain things, let alone some new investments. But paying the right of service according to regulations and laws would certainly have the means and communal businesses to engage with various different jobs that would be difficult to unite to dig only once, not to dig every two months mainly in the tourist season, which is most interesting when we see that it is most active in the tourist season along the coast. There, I agree with most of it, but until the right to service is brought to that level that it is financially used by local self-government and while we have cases of base stations, especially in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21536	Thank you. The distinguished representative Turina Đuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21537	Buddy Bull, you know it's not always the blame those others used to be the first ones. Oh, no? So local self-government units definitely have tools to determine the position of the telecommunications network in their area. Any administration of the city or municipality may address or should even contact HACOM for assistance. HACOM has the right to ask the operator for what we don't have directly, but HACOM has. Ask the operator for all information on their network in their area. Once these data have been extracted, negotiations with naturally price operators, i.e. the right of service, will then begin. One good part of me thinks the local self-government unit at least in my region as far as I know they did the job. It's not exactly that big of an asset and the kind of compensation that you could build a new network with. But at least facts have been established for the beginning, and certain revenues are coming and they are continuous. So here they are not just guilty. Of course, these negotiations are not easy with them, they always try to save or earn whatever you want because they are on the market. However, if you have enough perseverance and knowledge, you can certainly do so. So all units of local self-government that haven't done it yet have that option. It lasts about half a year as far as I know, depending on the size, but one half a year. And in the end, arrangements are made if there is reason and will on the one hand and on the other. And without that, without that basic data, it's too bad that it's going to go into some kind of development if it hasn't already been done. So here, from this place and the appeal to local self-government that those who are not that do it in some future period.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21538	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the HDZ advocates' club, the distinguished representative, Miro Totgergeli, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21539	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So today, we have before us a proposal for a law on measures to reduce the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks with the final of course of the bill. The modern economy is increasingly relying on business based on electronic communications services that are unimaginable without developed broadband, or without a well-developed broadband network. What is the situation with us in Croatia? Well, here's something to talk about today. So, according to HACOM data for September 2015, only 52.09% of households in the Republic use Internet speeds 2 megabits per second and more. And of those 52.09%, only 1.5% of households use the Internet speeds of 30 megabits and more. This stated fact is, in fact, the result of an unsatisfactory progress towards the introduction of next-generation access networks or high-speed electronic communications networks where that speed is currently defined by some 30 megabits per second. According to the European Commission's December 2014 data, the Republic of Croatia was at the bottom where we had representation from 47.5% of areas that have access to the fast internet while, for example, in the EU 68%. However, what is particularly worrying is the fact that most of it is mainly in urban areas while rural areas have access to the fast internet for only 10.19% and there is a certain so-called. a digital gap between rural and urban areas. What's our goal? Well, there's been a little talk about it, the minister mentioned it, our goal by 2020 is that all of our residents, all of our citizens, have access to the internet of 30 mg/s, and what our second goal is that 50% of the households are connected to the Internet with a minimum speed of 100 mg/s. So what are we doing with this law? We are, in fact, taking over the provisions of Directive 2014/61 of the European Parliament and of the Council from 15 May 2014, in this law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and it was our obligation to take over this by 1 January 2016. If we'd done it by then, maybe this data that I was talking about today would have been significantly better, maybe. According to the electronic communications network operator, when building new networks, the costs that they have about 80% of these waste costs on construction works, the complex process of harmonising the building of electronic communications networks with spatial plans, the resolution of property relations and the acquisition of authorisations by competent authorities. This law regulates some of the most important issues, and they are now going towards reducing these 80% costs. Therefore, the introduction of an obligation to give access to the physical infrastructure of network operators suitable for setting up electronic communications networks of high speeds, and a clear and tax-based indication of the reasons for refusing access to existing physical infrastructure, the introduction of accessibility and transparency of basic data on existing physical infrastructure, the establishment of coordination of construction works and the introduction of the obligation to coordinate the opportunities of construction works fully or partially funded by public means, the introduction of obligations for transparency of data, construction works, the acceleration of the process of issuing permits necessary for the setting up of high-speed electronic communications networks, the pooling of all relevant information in the process of issuing permits for construction works through a single information point, the regulation of specific procedures for the settlement of access disputes and common use of physical infrastructure, access to data on physical infrastructure and data on the provision of building works, as well as the requirement for the coordination of construction works by the construction body and the disputed body of construction of constructions, and the resolution of those bodies of the systems of constructions, and the dispute of construction of constructions, and the systems for the systems of constructions of constructions, and of constructions, and the systems of constructions, and the systems, and the systems of the systems, and the systems of the systems for the systems of the systems of constructions of construction of constructions of constructions, and of constructions, and of constructions, and of constructions, the systems, and the systems, and the systems, and the systems, and the systems for the systems for the systems of the systems, and the systems for the constructions of constructions, the constructions, and the systems of the systems of the systems of the systems, the systems of the systems of the systems of the systems of the systems, the construction of the construction of the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems, and the systems of the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems and the construction of the constructions and the systems and the constructions of the constructions of the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems and the systems, the systems and the systems and the systems, the systems, the systems and the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems, the systems and the systems and the constructions and the systems and the By regulating the mentioned issues, we expect an increase in the use of existing network operators' physical infrastructures such as gas transmission and distribution infrastructure, electricity and thermal energy, water transfer and distribution, and the release and purification of waste water, sewage systems and disposal systems, as well as infrastructure intended for the operation of rail, road, river, maritime and air transport. I purposely state all this because all these network operators already have built infrastructure that can also be used by an operator to build new devices on these networks and thus by achieving and building a broadband network in certain areas. On the other hand, the coordination of construction works, there has already been little talk here, is encouraged but also gives the possibility and intensity of this law, and it is above all that in the construction of new electronic communications networks of high speeds, these works take place together with other network operators who perform their work, but this law, when fully revives and when it starts to apply, also allows other network operators to use this data and to comply with other network operators or local self-government units and thus reduce their costs in building networks in those areas. It is also important to stress here that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget, nor in the budget of the units of local (regional) and regional self-government. Of course, the HDZ Club will fully support this law and we hope that the operators of electronic communications networks will recognize everything this law gives them, take advantage of it, but also that local communities, local self-government and all other operators, network operators will take advantage of all the advantages of this law and reduce prices in the construction of new infrastructures on our premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21540	Thank you very much. And we have a few replicas for your exposure. She's the first respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21541	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Totgergeli, you have been through all the elements of the law quite in detail in your presentation, so I need to perhaps once again emphasize the transparency or conditions prescribed for transparency, these are the provisions of Article 7, 8, 9. What exactly am I talking about? I would like to say that for the first time in one draft of the law, in accordance with the directives, the bodies that have to provide information are listed. We had opportunities to pass when it came to operators one quite painful way because we weren't ready for the setting options, I speak first and basic about antennas, so when the teleoperators came, everyone naturally wants to have everything on their mobile phone in real time and then around setting the antenna were different interpretations of the receptions both on the house and on their own, and it introduced a big mess, which in the space, which in the way you set up, which in all the other elements. So it's actually commendable and I'm taking this opportunity to point out again. This law has three provisions that state where any investor who comes gets the information you need, what you need and what you agree to, is the provision of Article 9. The provision of Article 8 refers to works to be linked together with the law which is behind this coming and related to the cadastre and the notice. And what has to be said, so the law has set things right, well detected what needs and right, but there remains always a problem of implementation in nature. So what we need to insist on, we need to insist that this law is really respected by everyone. But there are several bodies, so the competent authorities for issuing licences are important, and the cadastre is also competent and, of course, the Agency responsible for that. And everyone needs to put very quickly and very spotlessly all the information on their websites so that it can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21542	Thank you. The Honorable Agent Totgergeli will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21543	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with you, dear colleague. What may be even more in this law than what the directive is asking us to do, and that is that, apart from a common information point where everything you've been talking about, we're supposed to sit in one place in the law and keep the obligation and everyone else on their websites to publish all the information on the existing physical network and on planned construction works and on everything they think they're going to do over a certain period of time. So in some ways, we are also introducing an additional one in relation to what the directive itself is looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21544	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21545	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague watching us start talking about this law sometime around 10:00 a.m. and probably given the reports we'll be done for the next half hour. So for this law, it took the Parliament an hour and 45 let's be broad-handed and say two hours to adopt it. And why you encouraged me to the replica because you said the law was supposed to be passed on January 1, 2016, which was supposed to be adopted but that this is how we missed the chance to do it together. We didn't miss our chance. You missed your chance. As far as I'm aware, your party is from January to today exercising power or managing the state, today is December 2nd, if I'm not mistaken, so exactly 11 months and two days ahead of us to separate 2 hours in this House and adopt this law. This law, as already said, is a property of the EU and, as such, is automatically transposed into our legislation by certain amendments. So here's the pure truth for my sake I had to react to ask you not to transfer that sin to the entire Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21546	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Totgergeli will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21547	Your Honor, I can't agree with you. Namely, as we know, the European Parliament adopted the directive in May 2014 and we had until 1 January 2016 a time of a year and a half when it was precisely your government that could have started making this law. And I also have to mention the truth for the sake of the fact that the public debate was held only in February 2016. So that part wasn't prepared either, so he found the HDZ government, HDZ and the Most government so they could do what you're talking about right now. Therefore, I cannot agree with you and I think there is much of your responsibility in that we could adopt this law with 1 January 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21548	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21549	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You spoke to your colleague as much as anyone has a fast internet in the EU and as much in Croatia. The fact that we teleopers who are mostly foreign-owned serve as... The field and biggest profit per capita is in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact that we don't have the Internet fast doesn't matter at all because if they cared about their profits, they could have invested themselves by now, but simply all the policies had so far been favourable to them, they were slow, and they absolutely didn't care. However, as far as this law is concerned, I would also ask the question if the minister heard and how, in general, the question of what will be truly guaranteed by this law to speed up digitisation should be clarified. It is also a question for HACOM, which is a deadline for amending the laws on electronic communications relating to this law and Directive and in which they have determined the level of penalties imposed by the inspector for non-compliance with the provisions and obligations. So this law will be if this is not put in place a dead letter on paper and Croatian consumers will be their only exploitation field where they will create large profits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21550	The Honorable Representative Totgergeli will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21551	An esteemed colleague of yours may be right in part, but as far as this law is concerned, if we talk about him, then he's in charge of conducting in terms of the inspection of this law, HACOM. By reading this law, I was wondering, when we talk about the infrastructure of a physical that has already been built by other network operators such as gas, electricity, water, etc., that at some point there may be a problem for example for HACOM inspectors who are actually connected exclusively to telecommunications, radio communications are not sufficient to assess whether someone has really denied the reason or for no reason to implement this law. However, by reading the comments during the public debate, I noticed that in fact none of the other network operators had made any such comments, so I then concluded that they consider that through the basic laws that cover their activities, which of course this law respects can protect themselves enough at some point if some of the operators want to implement something at all costs on a subjugation that actually bothers basic activity. So there are provisions in this law how this law is implemented. But what I'm going to point out one more time, this law, first of all, is that it gives it a chance for everyone who participates to build networks more easily. This law will not make anyone build networks faster in some areas, it allows for the construction of these networks to be cheaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21552	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Darko Paric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues from the profession, colleagues and colleagues, I will first and foremost say that the SDP Club will support this law because this is definitely one of the positive laws and steps in the legislation and ultimately the organisational functioning of our country in this matter of building optical networks. I have to say that what used to be electrification or the introduction of electricity, what used to be gasification or gas introduction, is today fiberisation or optification, or the introduction of optical cables. It's our present, it's our absolute future and it's something without which we can neither, nor can we escape, simply something we have to go to. This law directly affects the future representation of broadband in the Republic of Croatia, which we have already heard is not good at all, and the representation of broadband is definitely directly affecting both economic development, quality of life, and economy and everything that is happening in this country. When we naked this law is clear a few things, this law is actually designed to build future optical networks along with the traditional DTK infrastructure so far, giving everything that is suitable and in what is possible to put, suffer, or whatever you want to say optical cables from sewers, from gas networks, water lines and all others. Because today there are technologies that can be done. On the other hand, this law for the first time introduces this, so let's say public databases and coordinate all construction works that happen be careful throughout the Republic, in all local environments, all local administrations, self-government, whatever. For the first time, this law introduces unique databases available to all network operators, all optical and similar cables located somewhere. Now, that's a huge thing, organizationally this is terrible, for something like this to do takes an extremely long time to organize in the whole of our country. This is what I fear most because it was never in our nature to organize ourselves so easily and easily. So he thinks the problem with this law is his implementation. And I have to admit and I would also like to hear from the minister an explanation that the assessment of the necessary means of law enforcement where it says that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of funds in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia or in the budget of units of local and regional self-government. I don't fully understand that part because everything that needs to be done in this direction to ensure that access points are written here, to ensure the coordination of construction works and everything, they're really huge organisational works. To coordinate construction works in only one type of Split city requires a lot of organisations between them and funds for some information infrastructures that will enable it. And this law, if I read it correctly, actually requires it to be done in the entire Republic of Croatia. What I definitely said was great that for the first time in this law, all network operators can show interest in the optical cables and in the pipelines, and electrical installations, heat, water transmission systems, sewers and everything else. It's never been possible until now. Furthermore, the most important things that we will get tomorrow by implementing this law that I think the act of writing the law is much simpler than the law itself, in my opinion only the implementation of this law will be difficult but I definitely think that the ministry must insist on that because if we succeed in fully doing so, the benefits for this country will be multiple in any case. What has always been most expensive in any form of laying optical cables are construction works. They even say that 9/10 is the very cost of building something are construction works. With this law, if we really manage to coordinate all these construction works, if we succeed in taking advantage of all this, this is a huge step and this is something that will in any case bring about everything that is written in this law, which is to increase the competitiveness of the electronic communications market, and consequently the quality of services provided to the satisfaction of end-users. If this law is implemented properly, end-users will be even more satisfied with the fact that their services will be greater, more diverse and cheaper. Because it's the consequence of a law like this. And then another thing is the digitalisation of the public sector, new electronic services and everything else. Because as already mentioned by the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the representation of broadband is a totally heterogeneous environment, even I remember the poor 90s there was a political graphite that spoke, or a political parol, a panflette that you want "Good life for everyone and not just them." When it comes to the Internet, if we exclude several major urban environments, the rest of Croatia literally can speak to the good Internet to everyone and not just them. Because in our 26 years in Zagreb today in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and larger cities you can get any form of the Internet in any way through optics, wires, air, whatever comes to mind is cheap, affordable or relatively cheap. You can get any favors from television, phone or anything. However, as soon as you move very little from the city of Zagreb or from the city of Split or God forbid you go to the islands or go to Lika, the question of the Internet becomes a matter of privilege or the question of the Internet becomes something that is definitely not available there or near in such aspects as it is here. And definitely something has to be done about that. This law goes that way. I will also mention that somewhere in 2014 then the government made one decision, one major project that had just gone to solve and help resolve this issue. In fact, when you look at optical networks and the whole story there are some kind of networks called aggregates, there are networks called access networks. These aggregates connect cities, and these access cities bring users together. What the then-Government of the Republic of Croatia did and this step that was made we are then and today we have a lot of state-owned companies with very many optical infrastructures, optical cables owned by HAC, ARZ, JANAF, PLINACRO, HEP, HZ and some smaller ones. It's done about 8500 km of different optical cables, optical infrastructures, canals and everything else that's been scattered all over Croatia, somewhere and quite redundancy, which these companies have been doing so to ensure themselves that they can function and that they can work. What the government then did united it with one government decision, and I must also admit that the previous governments also intended to do so, so that the then government de facto continued one process or one project that was under way, so I must say that this project was even one political consensus in the whole story that has been going on over the years as such. The entire optical infrastructure has been put in place, the state-run government in a state-owned company, as well as transmitters and connections. Both their goal and their task was to make it possible for other cities, environments, places and villages in Croatia to have an adequate Internet service as citizens of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka or some other cities. Here's my buddy Bulj looking at me. Basically, all you stand for was the idea and the goal and this project. The company's transmitters and connections got run by all of it together. Both the idea and the intensity was that through EU funds, means all those funds by 2020, what will be further, that is exactly what is going to be done. Because what all governments in the Republic of Croatia had decided unanimously by then that the situation was not satisfactory and that the investment in telecom infrastructure was simply partial and heterogeneous, i.e. the telecoms invested where they were being paid and where their money would be returned. Because if they have to invest a huge amount of money to bring optical infrastructure to an island, and that's where 5,000 inhabitants live, it's a simple calculation that it's going to pay off in the next 50 years. For something to be paid in the next 50 years, no one on some business principle is going to invest. Therefore, the state, in this respect, does not need to look at the extent of the return on investment and not to see how much the return on investment is. The state is obliged to provide all its citizens with the same standard of living communal and any one. In this aspect today, the Internet and Internet access in some countries have become constitutional law. Very likely over time, we will open such a topic and access to the Internet has indeed become something that is understood. And that's why the then government, and as I said before, the government went that way. And I'd like to do it today during your closing speech or whatever it is that you tell us clearly in the Parliament what in which direction and where this project has come today and how it all looks today because I think the infrastructure that the state has already invested through all these state-owned companies is very expensively paid. It was built for a reason, a natural thing, but I think it would be a sin and it would be a huge failure of this country not to use it for the benefit of our citizens because all the money we can get through structural funds to build this infrastructure is in that case much bigger if we're already starting from some starting point. And if we ignore all of this at zero, and with this we're at some starting point, on a scale of 0 to 10, let's say we're at 5. So that our step in the development of broadband infrastructure, in the representation of broadband Internet, can be much bigger and much faster. And by 2020, which is ultimately our plan and plan of the EU Digital Agenda, we can really jump a lot more than we planned. So I'd be done with this. I say once again on behalf of the SDP Club, I welcome this law. We will support this law and hope to adopt it today at the session. But I would like to warn you once again that this law was much, much easier to write than to implement because this law is organisational for the exercise itself. This means that all local administrations and self-government must have access to this kind of database where they will coordinate all construction works. This means that all possible DTK infrastructures including sewage and everything else must also be in some database of complete Croatia. It's a really huge thing. We have definitely the DGO and the Department of Construction and all those who can do such a thing, so I'm also interested in what stage we're preparing these things. And secondly, I'd like to hear what's going on today with the project of uniting optical infrastructure, as far as we've come and what's going on between the ministry and the government in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21554	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21555	Thank you, Vice President. You said in your presentation that implementing this law could be one of the brakes and local self-government and its inertness. I don't think so, it's clear to me that this law is also a tool for further economic development and for attracting investment, but also for preserving lives in rural areas because we today have settlements, villages, villages that are the only link to the world or TV signal or the Internet. And that's why we should certainly work to pass this law, bring it today, it's not good that two, two and a half years we should have brought it. And on the other hand, we have to do everything possible to get to that last end-user that fast internet connection because we want every house to have the Internet because it's our only connection, and HTV hasn't built the towers to have a signal in every neighborhood, the mail has closed its outposts in those villages, Vjesnik and Tisak have closed their kiosks the only link they have in the future is that Internet and therefore, of course, we support us from HSS and me passing this law. And that local self-government, I don't think there's gonna be any brakes. We have bright examples of the town of Nova Gradiška, the Municipality of Nova Kapela, the Old Petrovo village to Okučana, so ten municipalities are united in one project, they have been in these activities for six months, they have an idea project and close to the location permit. It means that local self-government is waiting for such laws to be a tool for faster adoption and application of such projects to EU funds and national funding sources. There are still such examples in the Republic of Croatia only we must finally understand that we are helping, not making it difficult for them because of the slowness of lawmaking and frequent changes in laws, adoption and implementation of such projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21556	Thank you. The respected Darko Paric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21557	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I apologize if that's how you understood me, it wasn't my intensity at all in that way to set things up. I wanted to make it clear that the real problem of implementing this law is complete local administration and self-government. Not only less, the problem may be even, the problem is Zagreb, but some less local administrations and self-government. Maybe the bigger problem is Split than some less local administrations and self-government because the forest here is huge. But really in order for this law to be properly implemented, then the whole state, all units of local administration and self-government need a single slap in that story, and that's very difficult to do. If we do something like that that I really hope we do, it would be a fantastic example for all the other things, it would really be the first time that at some level of organisational, informational, however you want to synchronise everyone in the same way for the first time. That would be a great thing. In that case other possibilities for other things are truly then incredible. There's only that much. I mean, I didn't have a negative connotation of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21558	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Parić, I have no objections to your debate, she was really concrete, correct and professional in the extreme case. I only answered for a replica for one little maybe once again apostrophe of the problem you've located yourself, and that's the problem with these rural areas. Here I was the other day talking to entrepreneurs and craftsmen, he was also the principal of the primary school in a small Municipality of Gornja Rijeka there, and the man tells me like this, you give us help we can't bring our school into this e-school program because we don't have a network, our children are discriminated against. And now watch what happens to us mostly in Croatia, we do some advances that later create problems. So we went to do something that I agree to do, and we didn't allow all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to consume it. This particular thing at the schools, this really is an ugly situation that happened, it went into that program, and we've made another discrimination between rural areas and urban areas. And that's one terrible problem, so I absolutely support it. Today I have been consulting a little bit, and we have already set out in this programme in the town of Križevci and the surrounding municipalities, and I hope that it will start to develop further, and that it will come to this, but somehow we would have to be careful as we pass some laws and when we start with some programs that we well check out whether these programs are feasible for all inhabitants of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21560	Thank you. The respected Darko Paric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is exactly this coordination, as you said, namely one wonderful and huge project of the Ministry of Science or the Croatian academic research network of e-school introduction, that in some perspective until 2023 all primary, secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia are connected to a wide-ranging very fast gigabital Internet, that all schools have pills, information and everything else. And today we're asking a question like you said, a question of schools that don't even have basic internets, let alone big advanced things like this. But that's the question where we actually need coordination, when exactly the state should be put into a situation to coordinate one, another, third project and this story let's say push a little more towards building optical infrastructure and other technologies... today there is no. Not to build them again around Split, about Rijeka or about Zagreb because there is too much. And you'd also add to this law what's not mentioned here, it's only about building the real basics into the country or the channels of whatever optics and optical infrastructures. To connect to the Internet there are wireless technologies, there are mobile technologies, all today we surf very quickly and very well through cell phones from many parts of this country, so that all of this can be used as extension as a sequel to this whole story. And I think that we as a country have really good assumptions and predispositions that in terms of five, six to seven years we can do wonders in this area, definitely. Build a new one, use what we have, and I already mentioned that we have a lot to do, a lot of things built by private telecom operators, a lot of our own, and add these other few things we can really get away with. You're absolutely right. We need to coordinate better in all aspects, definitely to do things right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21562	Thank you very much. And now the individual debate will be held by a distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21563	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about an extremely important topic, it is about something that will allow the infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia in particular one of the key infrastructures in increasing economic growth, increasing employment, the possibility I would say openings and some new markets to simply come to know, to advance, or to try to do something unfortunately for Croatia today in the European Union is at its beginning. What I would expect from every Croatian prime minister is that after the election the first day he calls teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia and tells them people to sit down, let's see how in 4 years we can increase the internet access of Croatian citizens, so that we can increase the speed of the average internet access of Croatian citizens, how all this can help the Croatian economy. That's what I expect from the one most responsible in the Republic. This is essentially the right reform, and about this reform I would like some who have conditioned HDZ support in the Croatian Parliament that they have spoken about it, that let's say the MOST came up with this story to help expand the broadband Internet in Croatia, how, that we don't have only 22.86 to a hundred people who have access to a broadband internet or over a fixed network, how to increase speed, it's a reform, so how to increase the speed of Internet access is not speed, it's not a reform of how to do a one-day show in the Assembly and discuss certain things that will entertain the public rather than the problem of whether our citizens have the infrastructure to access the Internet or not. Unfortunately, they don't have it, but the speed is low. When we look at the EU, Croatia is at the very beginning. In Europe, among all the countries of Europe, it means that when we include those who have not joined the EU, only two countries have slow average internet access but Croatia. It's about Albania and Montenegro. And that's the problem we need to talk about here, and that's the reforms we need to start. It is not a reform to transfer a party colleague from one institution to the ministry in 20 days. It's not a reform. It means we find him and hire him and transfer him to the secretary of the cabinet of the minister in 20 days. So these are not things that representatives and parties in the Croatian Parliament should deal with. Unfortunately, we see that these are exactly the topics that dominate. Transferring from HAMAG to the Ministry of Administration, the "Godfather" affair, these are things that unfortunately dominate the Croatian Parliament today. Let's talk, let's talk about how to give people a quality Internet, how people have the opportunity to get to know, get to work, help to get some of the people in Croatia who are poor, who don't have a job tomorrow and give them perspectives. I said, apart from Albania and Montenegro, Croatia has the slowest Internet in Europe at the moment and in the European Union the slowest. As far as the price goes, I agree with my colleague Bull, who talked about foreign operators taking more care of profits. And this sector sometimes reminds me of the banking sector because foreigners privatised or created some companies in Croatia, it has provided infrastructure for which Croatian citizens have fought and singled out for years. And now we have a 30% higher price for internet access or services, internet services and connections, 30% higher prices than in the EU, for example. Interestingly, the average price of megabits in Romania is only 0.71 dollars, i.e. some 3.5 to 4 kuna, while it is 4 times higher in Croatia. For example, if our average speed of internet connection were to be passed into the price we would pay 30 kuna in Croatia for the monthly account is that price, unfortunately 100 and more kuna. For that same price, people in Romania have 180 times the speed. So they have a thousand megabits for 122 kunas a month. Now you tell me if you think there's a connection between economic growth and that infrastructure. I absolutely think that there is, I don't think it's for no reason and that Romania has moved ahead of us, you see that, by certain movements and GDP, that Romania has more positive trends than we do, it is now even at the head of the EU. So this is also one component that allowed the Romanian economy to recover much better than the Croatian economy, for example. It is necessary without delay to support the adoption of such a law, it is necessary for operators to set clear deadlines with pens if you want to charge from Croatian citizens a certain service, if you want to have the opportunity to earn 30% more in Croatia than in their countries you have to make infrastructure to make that service better than it is today. And we don't need to have any exceptions here, and we need to set high standards, and set certain standards, I'd say pens if it didn't happen over the next few years. It is unacceptable that we still have an Internet connection in the centre of Zagreb based on copper steam that cannot handle more speed than 2.3 megabits per second. And on the other hand, relationships fall, they're insolent, people can't use the service that they should normally use. On this side, I would ask the minister to pay particular attention in the future to how and what quality services are delivered to Croatian citizens. And another thing that's interesting is that we're something above the EU average basically means part of it, connected by cell phone to the Internet, and that most young people in Croatia use a smartphone to get information. Many of them can no longer imagine life for a single day practically without using a smartphone. And on that side, I think we need to pay particular attention to the infrastructure in that part. We had a lot of problems, and here I remember and Representative Bulj was loud about the base stations in the last term, so I'm wondering what stage we're in with that. A lot of people in Croatia complain about setting up base stations. I remember last year it seemed to me that it was somewhere in April, May when it was required to tighten the criteria in the rulebook that it had to consult with local self-government units, etc. I absolutely agree with that, people must not have fear for their health, but they must have I would say the possibility of getting a quality service. Here's what I'm wondering if the minister can answer. Maybe he's got information about the construction minister's situation, or whether the conditions for setting up antenna pillars and antennas or base stations have been tightened, whether the announcements requested by Representative Bulj have been fulfilled, because in this work, I absolutely support him to consult with local self-government units, or what the situation is about. In the end, without any delay, I will give my support to this law. I hope that in the future you will be more determined that people looking for quality infrastructure in Croatia, or better access to the Internet, would actually have that. I also want your city's success to be measured by whether we are still at the start of the EU within 4 years or whether the average internet access in the Republic of Croatia is more high-quality or double-speed, three times faster than it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21564	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21565	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Maras said it is inadmissible that there are Internet users in the City of Zagreb at a speed of 2 to 3 Mb. I will say it is acceptable for the rest of Croatia to come to at least this one small segment of the Internet or what one part of Zagreb must feel for and see what some things look like in the rest of Croatia. And I'll tell you why. In this part of Zagreb it is because there are not many users who would pay for investing in the introduction of the optical cable. In this part of Zagreb, the same situation as in the Croatians near Sinj or Panj near Sinj or on the island of Brač, in some place or whatever you want. It's a situation, it's a matter of everything. So it's literally a question of anyone who's worth doing something to private operators. That part doesn't pay off, and that's why we have what we have. How do you solve that? With the state. And ask questions about the connectivity and representation of broadband and economic development. All studies directly link the higher representation of broadband internet with higher economic growth in the country. And the question of how do we get to it? We, like I said, have everything we need. We have a highly developed infrastructure for private telecom operators. And he had developed the infrastructure of the optical state and state telecom operators and those that didn't. We also have a lot of money planned for this very issue from EU funds and we have, among other things, this law that goes, whose intensity to go in that direction and to do something about it. And if we use this law, if we use projects to unite optical infrastructure and all that we have and if the ministry together with HAK and its agencies stands at the head of all these, whole stories. I mean, like I said, in the next five, six to seven years, we can really do a lot of things. So here's why I appeal to the Minister once again, Government, I ask you to do something about it because this is really a question, a national question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21566	Thank you. Here will be answered by the distinguished Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21567	Thank you very much. Mr Paric, although you yourself have noticed that it may not be worth it in some parts of Croatia to make a connection such as in the part of Zagreb where 5 hundred people live in a skyscraper. But then the state can set standards, if you make 30, 40, 50% more, you have to build infrastructure in the Croats as well. And that's what I insist on, so I want the operators to squeeze because I see what deadlines they have under certain laws but I'm not optimistic that they will meet them not only in Zagreb, but throughout Croatia. If you make a living in Zagreb, if you make a living in Split or in Rijeka, and it's really good and it's 30% more than in the EU in Italy, Spain, Germany, England, then you have to build infrastructure in Croatia. And that's what I asked for, that's what I asked the minister to do, and that's what I need to insist on. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21568	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21569	Thank you, Chairman. So here I was listening to my colleague Maras, and really everything he said is basically standing. But one key question arises that no one has considered during this debate, and that is that all we do, all regulatory, let's say positive measures, for example. This one that speeds up the Internet exists because of people and for people. But people in this country are getting smaller every day and we have negative, demographic and migration trends and we're in a situation like we're doing something and we're actually not actually working for our own people, but for someone else who's obviously coming here after us because the plan of this government is a plan that's in the interest of global elites, and we obviously bother them in this space.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21570	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Maras will arrange.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21571	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, I am absolutely sure that if the infrastructure improves, and even in this part of the government's tax reform, it would stimulate producers in the ICT sector, that at any time you would sign an agreement to avoid double taxation with the United States, I am absolutely certain that fewer people would move out, that fewer people would open companies in countries that can normally operate in these large markets like the United States. So, unfortunately, our government is doing very little or almost no effort here. And on that side, we need to change that, and then less people will move out. Today young people need several hundred kunas, need Internet connection and need an idea and should be able to work. And I am convinced that there is a great perspective in front of our young people especially in the ICT sector since we have a very high-quality university or Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Zagreb that produces quality experts who, unfortunately, must then leave Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21572	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Mar Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21573	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Maras, you had an objection about employment, or how we moved one person from the ministry to the ministry, and you did it with shovels. Now I'm going to give you a list. So, Tomislav Sheric, president of the HEP administration of HNS, and friend of Minister Vrdoljak. Before he arrived in HEP for five years, he ran a pizza shop in Osijek. Krunoslava Grgic Bjeljic, a member of the administration, is the only member of the SDP quota. Ljiljana Chule, director of HEP distribution system operator d.o.o. member of the HNS from Zagreb. In HEP, she has been employed for 32 years, but has progressed with the arrival of the Kukurik coalition. Damir Kovacevic, director of Elektra Pozega, president of the HNS branch of Požega. Branko Mohoric, director of Elektra Karlovac, president of the HNS of Karlovac County. Ozren Nadovez, director of Elektra Sibenik, HNS's from Sibenik. Daniel Ivić, director of Elektro Slavonia, came to the term of office of this government from Osijek's Milky Way. They're calling him Megle. He's a member of the HNS General Committee. Osijek Jadran Šundić, director... Dubrovnik, which has only lasted a few months in that position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also former president of the County HNS Željeir Piberčnik, one of the 5 directors of the Information and Telecommunications Sector, which has been removed in the meantime but has remained in the system in Elektra Varazdin, a member of the HNS. Lidija Gašparovic, came to HEP from HRT where she competed for the director but lost, after calling her a graduate veterinarian, became director of the Human Potentials Sector in HEP. He is not a member of the HNS but was brought to HEP by Radimir Cacic today by one of the company's most powerful people. Karolina Juzbašić, director of the company HEP Oodmor and recreation. It comes from Chakovec where she had a wedding dress salon. She was employed in 2012 and graduated on 5 April 2013. She is a member of the Regional Alliance of the HNS County Assembly. Natalia Žeko, a reference officer at HEP Rest and recreation. HNS from Varazdin and a close friend of Cacic's. Mladen Ruzman, Director of the Integrated Security Sector. A HNS man who used to be a member of the party's narrow leadership. Dubravko midnight at the head of the HEP company Sava, a member of the HNS in the city of St. Ivan Zelena. Damir Pečušak, comes from HEP with new authority and becomes director after three months. The president is the HNS city's fourth industrial district in Osijek. Sonja Ivos moved to HEP after Vrdoljak cleaned up Cacic's staff, a member of the Međimurski HNS. Alenka Dučić, HNS came to HEP at the position of spokeswoman even though the work was done in practice by Mirela Klanac. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21574	Thank you. I think we've all figured out what you're trying to say. Thank you. [[Intruder Kristic: If I could on behalf of the club I couldn't finish.]] Here will be answered by Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21575	Mr. Kristic, thank you very much for this suggestion. By the quality of the article I see that from some portal a la Direct or DNEVNO.hr. You are usually very reliable and accurate. On the other hand, you acted as we in Zagreb say a lot... But now I have to say I'm a little worried about you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if you realize I'm not with the CNS. Oh, no? I could call these people MOST's men more than mine. Well, they worked hard and hard for your Minister Panenic for a year. Well, they're your people. Let me read it again so I can remember them being Most's people. And they're still working there. These are the people of Minister Panenic who are very successful with them. Did you cooperate with Sheric? Was that your closest associate? You were in charge of him as a congregation. Right? One of your best associates was Mr. Sheric. Since these are the people who worked with the Most and for the Most, I'm really surprised to you why you're bringing them up to me. I don't have anything to do with these people, although I am truly sorry that you call people here, and maybe they're really quality people. They're more MOST's men than they're connected to me. So your colleague Panenic is directly responsible for these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21576	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21577	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, I'm glad you'll support this bill. In your debate, you have detected that this law is one of the prospects for a faster growth of the economy, entrepreneurs, etc. You've made certain suggestions to the Prime Minister today, and I really want to believe that you're honest with those proposals. What I'm really interested in is when you were a minister, why didn't you give those suggestions to the Prime Minister at the time? Does that mean you didn't have good communication or he wouldn't listen to you? What's the catch, anyway? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner: Please be quiet so that colleague Maras can answer the question.]] It's always awkward to answer when it's 12:00. Oh, no? Friday because then everyone gathers, the vote and starts the marble, but I'll tell you I've been giving these suggestions not only me but also Mr. Paric who was, I don't know if he's still a digital champion. So here is how effective the government of MOST and HDZ is still Mr. Darko Paric, who has been here for a year in charge of digitising the Republic of Croatia. It's the HDZ and the Most. And then they tell me about the people from HEP. Well, they're your people. Here's Mr. Paric, the digital champion, still on behalf of MOST and HDZ. I know he's embarrassed, but unfortunately the man is responsible doesn't want to resign. So for a year, let's get some people moving. So don't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21578	Please be quiet. My colleagues and colleagues, we can shut up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21579	Let the replica be completed no matter what many of them come to vote now and then leave. I apologize to Mr Milosevic for taking it from him. I don't know if he's had lunch or lunch all morning, and now he's nervous, so he's throwing it at me because I'm disturbing him to vote and leave. Well, Mr. Milosevic, you'll have to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21580	Comrade Maras, please, that's not the way to communicate and you know it. I'm asking you nicely. The final review will now be given by the respected Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21581	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Today's debate over this law has been very useful. I thank all the clubs that supported it, all of them supported this bill, but also for the debate that was very educational and very useful to us who prepared this law. I'm obliged to answer a few questions. First, as regards the amendment of the Law on Electronic Communications, it goes in the first quarter of 2017. Secondly, the guarantee that the construction of digital networks will be possible is precisely this law following the National Strategy of the Framework Plan and the proposal of this law with three basic definitions, which is to enable access and joint use of infrastructure and basic information on this infrastructure. The second is the coordination of construction works carried out in order to build networks of high speeds and thirds, to speed up and facilitate the procedures for issuing building permits. Costs. The aim of this law was not even to move costs to local self-government to municipalities and cities, but rather to bear the costs of network operators on the one hand, and on the other hand investors so-called. Telecom operators. I am obliged to say something about the project, my colleague Paric said to unify the light-water infrastructure whose carriers are Transmitters and Connections. He's in the stage of implementation, he's not stopping and he's going his own way. The companies that have the infrastructure of them are more precisely eight, they have a contract with Transmitters and have signed a contract to send transmitters and links where, according to the income-sharing model, the Transmitters and the links will manage the surpluses of their municipal infrastructure, and we will give in writing what stage this current project is. And here's another thank you to everyone for the debate and I wish you successful work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21582	I thank Minister Butkovic. This concludes the debate. The next item is the Final Proposal for a Act on measures to reduce the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks, emergency procedures, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 41. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. I would like the representative of the motion of Minister of the Sea of Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic to be shown about the amendments submitted. The first amendment was submitted by the Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21584	The amendment is not accepted by reason. The amendment of the Legislative Committee to delete the term as soon as possible within the provisions on the conduct of the competent authority referred to in Articles 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the final proposal of the law cannot be accepted for the reason that we consider that it is not only a nomotechnical matter but it is a matter of explicit provisions of Directive 2014/61 of the EU which is transposed by this law and, by abandoning that part of the provision, the correct transposition of the contents of the directive into the relevant provisions of the final draft law could be called into question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21585	A representative of the board? The amendment has been withdrawn. [[I'm not asking for a vote.]] The second amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21586	The amendment shall be accepted in part. The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, which proposes, in Article 5 of the final draft of the Law, the addition of a new sentence which would oblige the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities to adopt a Regulation on the uniformisation of the prices of all network operators for the use of physical infrastructure is partially accepted in the amended text, which reads: in Article 5(9), the second sentence shall be added, on the occasion of the determination and the price of the Agency, to the greatest extent possible, to take account of the uniformity of the price of access and common use of the physical infrastructure of all network operators.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-12-02-0.u21587	Does the amendment's representative want to be made manifest? Here you go. Do you accept the amended amendment? [[Intruder Kristic: We are not looking for a vote.]] Yeah. Thank you. In that case, the second amendment was accepted in the amended form. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on measures to reduce the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 122 votes in favour, 1 abstention and no vote against the Law on measures to reduce the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks together with the amendments adopted.
