ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1479	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament in the first reading. As you can see, this amendment and the supplement has two basic proposals. The introduction of three preferred votes and the extension of the catalogue of criminal acts that prevents convicted individuals from running for MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The first proposal aims to introduce three preferred votes to boost citizens' influence on the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. On the other hand, this proposal to a certain extent reduces the influence of party bodies and party leaders on which of the proposed candidates will eventually be elected. Although a 10% threshold has been left, this proposal allows more candidates the opportunity to reach the target 10%, as most of the preferred votes will not concentrate on one of the most recognizable people today most often. We think this is one maybe not big, but still a step forward in democratisation of the electoral system. There have been suggestions that we choose all candidates with preferred votes. That proposal, of course, has its own arguments. However, these proposals are faced with very strong counter arguments that in this way, especially in large parties, we make it very difficult for quality individuals to be selected which their parties and party colleagues recognise and want to give them the opportunity to become quality representatives, who are not so publicly known or come from smaller places because this system still gives priority to candidates who are more media-recognizable and who come from larger places. Also in one of the committee discussions, it is very well pointed out that the appearance of today's electoral units is not entirely suitable for the wider application of preferred votes, for example, the candidates from Zagreb are fighting for votes all the way to Rijeka and vice versa. For these reasons, we believe that the introduction of three preferred votes affected the right measures. The aim of the second proposal is to prevent individuals convicted of committing certain crimes from running and, consequently, to be elected to the Croatian Parliament. The legislator has applied this to a certain extent in the law, but in a very narrow form. We think it is, however, too narrow the area of criminal offences that we are covering today, and we want to extend this proposed amendment and supplementation. The Croatian Parliament had the same intention before, but unfortunately such a provision fell in the Constitutional Court. As far as these facts and this law are concerned, we have tried to follow the principles of proportionality and determination that the Constitutional Court has warned of. As regards the determination of the catalogue, it contains precisely certain criminal acts, all parts of each head and the particular parts mentioned in one chapter. As regards proportionality, the catalogue covers offences whose nature is such that it is incompatible with the behaviour of public office especially in the highest branches of state authorities. In addition, the European Court of Human Rights states that the Court accepts that stricter conditions can be laid down when it comes to the legal possibility to run for office in elections where the European Court of Justice says that an infringement of the Convention would only occur if any person convicted of any criminal offence would be prevented from active voting law. Such a proposal is also on the trail of what the Venice Commission prescribes in terms of proportionality. Finally, the Constitutional Court has just said in its decision in general that it is in the public interest to avoid the active role of perpetrators in political decision-making. Also when the Constitutional Court last abolished a provision that extended the catalogue of criminal offences that undermined the active electoral law for the Croatian Parliament, it stated that it considered that the acceptable constitutional frameworks had not been crossed, but that there was room for improvement in accordance with the guidelines of the European Court of Human Rights and the Venice Commission. This is exactly the legal solution that the catalogue of criminal offences referred to by the Constitutional Court in its decision is more detailed. We have also prepared for the Law on Local Elections, which we will discuss in one of the next days or perhaps today after the conclusion of this debate. In previous discussions, there has been a lack of consistency between the weight of the penalties prescribed in such a way that the proposed Law on Local Elections towards Candidates is more stringent than the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, so I would like to announce in advance that we will apply the same provisions contained in this law to the Law on Local Elections, or to harmonise them. In the debate over these amendments and additions, we are faced with the view that this law needs an even more comprehensive amendment. We fully agree with that. We hold these changes to be agreed on by broad expert debates in order to ultimately have a more quality law that we will be able to apply for many years. Our political decision is to show the changes that are on the table today in what direction we want to go in the future, which is the direction of further democratisation of the system, strengthening the role of citizens and protecting the dignity of candidates of elected deputies. Also, these are changes where we believe it will not be a problem to create a consensus of all major political actors, which may be for some other change. So I won't get involved in the debate as a representative of the board of directors. I would like to stress that we unanimously adopted the conclusion that the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system will hold a thematic session on amending the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament and conduct consultations with the interested public. We adopted the conclusion on the proposal of opposition representatives and Pupovac. I think the opposition were colleagues of the coat of arms and colleagues of Bauk. I believe that this thematic session will draw high-quality conclusions on the proposed changes but also be a quality basis for the start of more comprehensive amendments to the electoral legislation that we need. Then why are we going to change these two amendments to this election law? I have already stated that it is our political decision that we want to show by this change in which direction we want the future Election Law. In addition, we understand that the future debate on the new Electoral Law will not be at all simple, there will be many disputes. If it were so simple to change, I suppose they would have done it by colleagues already in their previous mandates. We think we can agree on this and after the debates have been held. And that is why we invite you to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1480	Thank you, counsel. The first representative to report for the replica is the respected representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1481	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Simic, therefore, I have no doubt that these two goals that you have set here, hence strengthening the influence of citizens on the electoral process and reducing the influence of party bodies, is not what is recognised in this law. However, I would like to warn you of one other thing, it seems to me that once again it is becoming the current debate between the two philosophers Trazimah and Socrates in which this first claims that justice is a greater benefit. As long as we have such constituencies, such a set-up election unit, I'm going to say quite specifically... Excuse me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Can I do it now? Here's this opportunity I want to tell you you're making this law in favor of your Osijek-Baranja County. It's an accusation, but that's how I see it. Because you called for a hearing. It is mathematically evident that in that ratio in which the two counties per population is almost impossible and even to the Mayor of Virovitsk-Podravski if they get 100% votes on such a list almost impossible to enter the Parliament because if the Osijek-Baranja County rewards its candidates with only 50% of the votes, their candidates will enter the Parliament. I'm not telling you this right now in the sense that because I realize it's hard to make a special quality law but I'm telling you this, let's think about it, let's see if for this law to experience the right purpose can make some more advances. And until the next parliamentary elections, there is enough time to think about ending the electoral units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1482	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1483	Dear colleague Žagar I agree with you about the problem of election units in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I think that's what most colleagues in this assembly agree with. It is something that will be and must be the subject of a debate waiting for us to change electoral legislation. Honestly, I wish we had two readings right now, we're gonna have a thematic session, we're gonna have a chance to hear different attitudes. I would like to personally agree at these sessions and on the procedures that await us even about election units because then it would help to introduce three preferential votes, in fact, to the best extent used to say so. Nevertheless, I think the introduction of three preferential votes is still a step forward. I said already big parties would have to keep an eye on their lists of more candidates to then give candidates who come from smaller places more high-quality positions on the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1484	Thanks for the reply to the replica. The next representative to be contacted is Pedja Grbin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1485	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm going to refer two questions to you as my representative, and the rest of the objections to this law, of course, I'm going to give it to you in my individual debate. So, the first question, and it is quite problematic with your opening presentation, is how we plan to amend the Election Law in this term of the Croatian Parliament. Yesterday we formed a government, it's not to believe, unless you have more information than I do, that this government will be as short a century as it was. That is why I am asking you when you are already announcing that the election law requires more changes, when we are talking about that if we adopt this proposal of the Election Law, we will go further, I am asking you, and I ask you to answer us why we are doing this in a few steps. And on the board we asked you that, on the board we showed you, we agreed to a thematic session and everything else and now here's the simple answer you didn't give. Another question that also arises from our session of committees, which is this law we bring obviously in the package with amendments to the Law on Local Elections. It's visible from a number of aspects and from the fact that you've proposed them at the same time, from the fact that they touch similar matter. But then I ask you, why didn't you bring these two proposals together? And in two ways, the first way is why the conditions for running have not been harmonised so it will be more complicated and difficult and stricter to be a candidate for the municipal council than for the Croatian Parliament. And secondly, why in the second law modelled this one, you also did not propose a preferential vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1486	Thank you, counsel. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1487	Dear colleague Grbin, I've kind of answered some of your questions in my presentation, but here I'm going to try to be more specific. As far as the amendments that I think are necessary for this more comprehensive law are concerned, they have been necessary for a long time. However, previous parliamentary majority have failed to agree on what direction the changes should go. We don't know if it'll be possible for this council majority. We believe that these changes will be adopted because we have communicated them and agreed with our political partners and therefore, at this point, so to speak, we are going to safety. And we leave an opportunity to discuss, and even this debate that we will have, we may find some other quality solutions that we will immediately agree with and which we will immediately enter into the amendments to the law. As for local elections and the Law on Local Elections, you are right, and I have already answered that, I said we will comply with the proposed provisions of the amendment of the Law on Local Elections with what we are discussing today. And as for the preferential votes in the local elections, we represent the view that they should be introduced at local levels and we agreed on that, we were not on the same committee when I later gave that answer and we agreed with our partners. The only thing that is very difficult for us so far is that we find it too demanding at local levels where you have 500 lists and some names to introduce a preferential vote, I think. elections for the county assembly and only 10 lists to have. And we're going to accept every well-intentioned suggestion, we're going to accept every model that's justified, and it's enforceable to put it into law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1488	Thank you, Representative Simic. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1489	Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we were to discuss here today if I understood correctly the guarantee that Croatia would go in a better direction in the next four years. And we now hear from the legislator that it is a small step that is safe and feasible. So, we see one giving up in rhetoric from what was promised in the pre-election campaign, and even after the elections themselves, and we actually need to argue that it is not about any guarantee, but that it is about a little cosmetic change that applies to me one three words that will change in a catastrophic electoral law that is one of the generators of injustice in Croatian political life. If the proposer had already wanted to talk about some of the criminal acts that should be proposed to amend this law, it would be a good idea to propose a ban on recruiting members of other parties and to amend the electoral will of voters, so that we have a situation in which someone enters a list in the Assembly, and then after a few days becomes a member of the other party and more such MPs are sought. Political trade is not something that could require Croatian political life, so there could be a change in the quality of the electoral law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1490	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1491	As for giving up in rhetoric compared to elections here, I would just like to ask you to look at what MOST was saying in the campaign and you will see that we have just represented what we have presented today in the amendments and additions to this law. We talked to our partners when we talked about the future government about all the points that we presented in the campaign and for which we announced adoption in the Croatian Parliament and really did compromises on some points, as compromises are done in every co-operation, as compromises work at every beginning of any partnership. However, in this particular situation, there was no reason for compromises because we both agreed that preferential votes are that extending the catalogue of criminal offences is a good and useful measure. I said here that it was a small step comparing it to all those steps that we need in this law. However, it is not such a small step, and I think the introduction of three preferential votes will change the Croatian political scene and the composition of this assembly, if only that remains in force. I agree with you that we should introduce some other changes that may not be part of this law, but also other laws so as to disable the things that you said before, but to prevent the establishment of parties five days before the constitution of the Parliament just to take some money that doesn't belong to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1492	Thank you, counsel. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1493	Your Honor, my colleagues. I welcome this proposal of humane and, as our colleagues, some know whose mentor was what he said in the 20th century, in fact in the 20th century, he said the essence of politics is humane politics. Maybe we should include some clauses here, for example. were candidates not only in politics but in other places in society whether they were run by state-owned companies that were thoroughly robbed in the 1980s and 1990s. Are there people here who faked their biographies, wiped out their haird biographies, etc. who have fake academic titles? Is there people here who are, for example, Worked for secret services on the former system, and their files are in Belgrade because they are a threat to national security. That should have been discussed a long time ago. In the serious states that we're not yet in some position more or less the military takes six months to a year of security clearance and where we are today, we know how much money has been taken out of here, not just in the '90s, but before that, who has bank accounts outside, etc. Only those clauses might have added, and let's see maybe some of them in academic circles that haven't published any scientific papers, sold sex for exams, etc., and the file is down there in Santa's, and I don't know where. And you need to check it all a little bit more thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1494	Thank you. The honourable representative Miroslav Simic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1495	Dear fellow Glasovic, as far as your proposals are concerned, I don't know how much they are specifically enforceable, but I will use this response to the replica to say that we already had on committees when we were sitting some idea that we should and ask why some crimes are not included in this law. We don't mind putting some of the others we can agree on together. And here we are as a proposer also open to all suggestions and reasoned proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1496	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1497	Thank you, Vice President. Here, dear fellow Simic, the basis of your opening statement shows that the position of the promoter of you MOST has changed as I consider it to be good. Good because the proposed laws and amendments to the existing laws need to be approached above all and responsible, professionally and professionally. It is commendable that not only you, but also the committee meetings concluded that consultation with the interested public should be conducted here in order to come to a quality, final proposal of a law which will be both unequivocal and which will be enforceable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1498	The next replica is the esteemed representative God Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1499	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. I support the intensities of the legislators of this law to achieve greater public influence, the electoral process. However, we should also be aware of the risk it carries with it, so the risk of party deposing. In the first row, when it comes to the regional representation of MPs, because the larger environments have the advantage of having sexual representation because the parties also need to keep more account. On the other hand, the smaller impact of the parties carries with it the greater impact of different stakeholders, which can then affect both the media and the financial and economic resources more the choice of some of the representatives who will represent them than the parties themselves. I also feel that here I would like to reiterate what I was saying yesterday when I presented the Government programme that amendments to the Electoral Law concerning the exercise of the right to vote of Croats outside Croatia should be made. I know that this is the primary constitutional matter, however, and the Electoral Law also has the opportunity to allow for a greater right of that vote, the intention through a letter vote, through the introduction of an electronic vote, etc. Of course, like other colleagues who have applied for the replica, I believe that this electoral law needs to be seen one and a broader reconstruction and I believe that both after the public debate and after the contributions and parliamentary majority and opposition will come at that time when we will get a consistent Electoral Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1500	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1501	Dear fellow Ljubic, I would just like to look back on this finding regarding the minor influence of parties and the greater influence of stakeholders. In one part, I agree with you that this is possible in preferred or preferential votes. However, I think that with three preferred votes we have found the right measure as I have said before. The right measure, however, will allow prominent individuals to perhaps skip individual party favorites. And that's why I think it's a good thing that we have less influence from the parties here, but it's only slightly smaller, unfortunately, increasing citizens' influence. However, party leaders and party bodies will certainly push ahead and make it easier for them to enter parliament by putting their favorites at the top of the list. However, three preferential votes still guarantee that people who are exceptional, who are good enough to enter regardless of the will of their presidents and we have also witnessed this in these parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1502	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1503	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1504	Thank you. Next then, the replica of the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague in the list of differences between this solution and the solution that is now in force you have missed out on perhaps the biggest difference and this is not within the party relationship and the influence of citizens but by introducing three preferential votes makes it extremely difficult to agree on pre-election coalitions of different political parties in terms of participation of each of them in the overall result. It's the biggest change of laws. Because if we're going to be Sauch or me, I mean, it's important, but it's not that important for citizens, and as far as inter-party relations are concerned, it's going to be very difficult to put together pre-election coalitions and lists in that way. Thus, this is not as small a change as it wants to be shown. I would ask you to keep an eye on how it applies in the final draft of the law, if it goes to pre-election coalitions, it wouldn't be too disrupting by preferential votes. And on the other hand, if that's not possible, then take care to increase the number of so-called. failed votes, i.e. the parties' votes below the threshold. So that's what you didn't emphasize and what I mean is the biggest change in this law. And I will answer my colleague Ljubici by law, it is not possible to prescribe a letter vote, but by the Constitution because it says in the Constitution that the citizens to whom this article refers...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1506	You can't answer your colleague, Ljubic, you know that, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1507	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1508	Regardless of your good intensity. The honourable representative Miroslav Simic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1509	Dear colleague Bauk, I agree with you that this will make it difficult for a coalition settlement and I don't hide that it was one of our intentions, and we don't think it's as significant an intention as you're giving it meaning. But we don't think that's a bad thing. That's a good thing. And you've had the end of bad experiences with these pre-election coalitions and breach of agreements later.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1510	Thank you very much. And it's the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The democratisation of a system with three votes on the list is basically a voter who consumes his right more than just to round up the list. The rounding of the list alone gives power that in the election of parliamentary representatives, only one vote essentially gives great authority to the great leaders where they can mean, they cannot influence as much as the people can by choosing a preferential vote. The most ideal thing would be if the lists were open and that if we had 14 candidates in one constituency to elect 14 of their parliamentary deputies. From 1 to 14 but if all 14 could, that would be the greatest expression of the voters' democracy. That would be an open list. As a result, we must not forget that 380 thousand were collected to amend the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament. 380 thousand signatures were not a small number, and we know what were resistances from major political options precisely because the great leaders i.e. who decided who would be who had a much greater influence on the list than this way. In this way, the voter gets the right to choose his representatives in the Parliament. And there is, otherwise, a whole law needs to be changed and this is a good intensity. There's a lot of illogicality in the law that's going to be needed means changing all the changes, for example. In the 9th and 10th constituency we have 393 thousand voters while at 4 we have hundreds of thousands less voters. So at 4:00, it takes 13,000 to be in the Parliament, and in these, it takes 15,000 votes or 17. So not every term is equally appreciated. So redecorating election units, more logical, fairer would be much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1512	Thank you. A colleague of Sach's raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1513	Dear Mr. President, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, Mr. Bulj means Article 235, so the replica. Who's the replica point to? Mr. Simic or Mr. Bauk? So from Mr. Bulj's speech, I realized that he's replicating Mr. Bauk, not Mr. Simic. Well, it wasn't Mr. Bauk who had the exposure, it was Mr. Simic. So, I'm asking you nicely. I mean, the replica has to go to whoever had the exposure, not the one who replicated the exposure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1514	I agree with you but I've realized that the replica of fellow Simic is going, but obviously we're not... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1515	I'd just say Mr. President that a parliamentary representative has the right to watch where he wants either to his colleague, Bauk, or to his colleague... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1516	Comrade Bulj, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure either, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1517	Once upon a time it might have been possible to order someone to watch and what they would say, this time I have the right to watch... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1518	Comrade Bulj, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure either. You haven't even mentioned the article. Don't people please abuse the injuries of the Rules of Procedure in such a way. I'm asking you nicely. It doesn't lead anywhere, and it doesn't help anyone. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS... I didn't know he expressed his wish to the board president. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] By the way, here's the chairman of the board, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1519	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished fellow Bulj, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on the Justice of the Croatian Parliament at the 1st session held on 18 October 2016 discussed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Association of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists by Act of 14 October 2016. The Committee discussed the draft law as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the basic objectives of the proposed legislative novel. It is proposed to extend the catalogue of criminal offences set out in Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament is prescribed as an obstacle to running for legally convicted persons for whom rehabilitation has not occurred. The second goal of the novel is to expand the choice of voters preferentially in the elections for MPs in the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed to allow voters 3 preferred votes instead of the one so far. The proposed amendment shall also be subject to other legal provisions related to the preferred vote. During the debate, the committee members expressed their skepticism according to the proposed form of preferential voting, with the possibility that the application of 3 preferential votes in this election model would favour candidates coming from higher backgrounds in individual constituencies. This would result in an uneven territorial representation within the electoral units in favour of larger populated areas. It is also proposed to significantly extend the period of law vacuuming so that it can enter into force within 1 year of its publication in the National Journal, thus guaranteeing a standard by which this novel could not affect the elections that could hypothetically be held within the specified deadline. After the debate, the Justice Committee decided to propose a majority vote with 8 votes in favour and 3 abstentions to the Croatian Assembly of Conclusions. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on election of MPs to the Croatian Parliament is hereby adopted. And one. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate shall be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1520	Thank you very much. And the chairman of the Legislative Committee, Honorary Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, expressed his desire to state the position of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1521	... At its third session held on 18 October 2016, the Parliament and the Committee on Legislatives also discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] The Committee, by a majority of votes, therefore 7 votes in favour and 4 votes, are abstentions to the adoption of this law, and the text of the proposal states that it is necessary to draw up, express and level the text of the final proposal in a legal and nomotechnical sense. In particular, we would like to stress here that the debate concerning Article 1 of that law where it is said that it is necessary to level it with the Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government Elections, where we should not actually come into the situation to be stricter conditions for running for local self-government elections than for the Croatian Parliament, which is, in fact, what the Proposer has already mentioned in the second reading. The debate also highlighted the need to even the catalogue of criminal acts that restrict the possibility of running in local elections with elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 24 September 2015, so as not to reopen the space for possible assessments of constitutionality and legality. As I have already stated, the Committee supports the law for second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1522	Thank you very much. With this, we seem to have exhausted the committee's rapporteurs, so we could go to representatives' clubs and the first club of representatives is that of the SDSS, the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1523	Dear Mr Vice-President, honourable colleagues and colleagues when legislative initiatives come into the parliamentary debate to which MPs or parliament are bound by restrictive rights and when, on the other hand, giving more rights or opportunities to the voters themselves are generally popular and, as a rule, the public welcomes it. On the other hand, if these are the same MPs and the Assembly marked as bad and even criminal, then it makes it more popular. I will take these two things as a reason for us to be careful here, not to protect ourselves or to restrict the right of voters and the right to the public, but to not make a mistake that can be done in these circumstances. And for that reason, I think it is good that this initiative exists, but this initiative must also be taken and considered with extreme, extremely high caution. Election law is active or passive, and this is a passive voter's right to universal human rights, one of the universal human rights that rare countries restrict by a general ban as does some 8 or 9 countries in Europe, not only the EU, but Europe from Great Britain through Luxembourg, Bulgaria, Romania, Armenia to Russia. Some countries like Germany and France hand it over to the courts. If the judge considers that someone should be limited to any active, any passive right as a penalty measure that will do good for him or her and good for the overall legal order then he does so. We have reached out here to limit passive voting rights even though that restriction is already contained in our law. So it's not about running, it's about running for office. It's about acting as a parliamentary representative. If a person is punished by a powerful verdict of six or more months by the law of that law or by that person, the mandate of attorney shall cease and he shall not be able to carry out it. It is similar with councilors in municipal, city and county councils, and even more restrictive in the case of mayors, mayors and mayors. So in this existing law, there is a restrictive provision, so as not to get the impression that this is something new that so far does not exist in the law. There is. The second question is how courts work, the second question is how courts do their jobs, how investigative authorities do their jobs, the second question is, so there is a potential impact on investigative authorities or any influence on judicial authorities, but it already exists. There are also restrictions when it comes to running. What we got on the benches and what was proposed has been extended to a whole series of crimes. From criminal offences sanctioned under international law to criminal offences involving abuse of position and authority, and between them sexual equality and the rights of a child or the rights of women or the like. All I'm going to do is take the case of Chapter X of the Penal Code, which speaks of endangering life and health. In the earlier version, it was a serious murder. If someone committed a serious murder, then they were deprived of that right. With this now, if you commit a car accident or participate in a car accident and commit murder out of trouble, or serious physical injury, you can't be a candidate for political parties if you have a final verdict until then. Political parties generally avoided doing so, in a large proportion. Even if we had someone under investigation, let alone someone who was convicted. I think we need to consult on this matter with people who are professional in order not to endanger some of the fundamental rights that we have as citizens. So, in terms of the scale of the actions we want to sanction. The second question is whether any punishment, so I'm talking about the length of the sentence, is enough for the decision we're proposing in this bill? Or should you see the length of the punishment, fellow Shimic? As some colleagues who especially insist on it will probably explain this better than I do, as a colleague of Sacha. And the third thing is the question of the rehabilitation period. It's not in the current legal solution, and we're introducing it now. But we're introducing him for a whole series of pieces. For the most difficult things, it's understandable. The question of course is I repeat once again for a certain kind of action is whether it is necessary, necessary and fair. Is that for example? violates one of the fundamental constitutional values, which is the principle of proportionality in the exercise of rights or justice. That has to be said by someone who's more directional than we are. Our goodwill, our interest in making our work more responsible, more moral, less protected under the influence of privilege is commendable. But we need to see that we don't make a mistake. I want to say one more thing, there is not a whole series of works that should be involved by nature when, in the face of people who speak publicly and who act publicly, act on behalf of the general interest or on behalf of specific interests, therefore as representatives of political parties, which is a question of violation of the Law on Discrimination or a question of violation of fundamental constitutional values such as the issue of national equality. We have been often witnesses and have still witnessed that some of us unconsciously sometimes, sometimes knowingly violate the provisions of the Law on Discrimination, violate fundamental constitutional values such as national equality. What are we gonna do with that? As far as all these open questions are concerned, it deserves a thematic debate and a public debate. So, it's good that this came, it's good that we started with this, but it deserves a serious thematic public debate and a serious public debate before the second reading for at least two or three more reasons. The government programme states that the government will comply with the electoral law with the provisions and opinion of the Constitutional Court on citizens' equality in the exercise of electoral law. So we here want citizens to have the opportunity to have three preferential votes. And we are skipping something the Constitutional Court has long adopted as an opinion, which is that given the differences in the number of voters in the election units, the weight of the mandate, and therefore the voting law is uneven and uneven. And it's necessary to solve that thing. Likewise, since I speak as a representative of one of the national minorities, the electoral right of members of national minorities should be regulated, especially when it comes to violations of the constitutional right of secrecy of the electoral procedure. In the current procedure, it's not a secret. People hear who they're turning themselves for, whether for a general list or a minority list, whether you're a Serb or not. Why should we hear it in the polls? And not only that, if there is someone behind you who is a member of your party, and there have been such cases, and you are not voting for a minority list but you are voting for a general list, it is again a violation of the secrecy of the electoral procedure and causing huge discomfort in people, with voters of members of the national minority and a solution needs to be found. As for this issue of three preferential votes, it has proved to be good that there is one preferential mandate and that the general principle of preferentiality is present in our electoral right, but the question is whether it will be good if we do so for three mandates. I'm not saying that pro domo sua, to say that because of my party's interest. We all get three mandates based on preferential votes because we have a clean majority system like that, so I could tell us that doesn't bother, but I speak as one of the actors of the democratic process. Indeed, the question is, are we actually going to limit the democratic opportunities that the parties of the Constitution guarantee, as is the case. pre-election coalition. We've all been focused on saying that we're going to limit the influence of the party heads who deploy people on the lists, but it's not just that. The thing is, if we go to three, we can seriously disrupt the possibility that political parties are collating and creating pre-election coalitions, which is the constitutional right of political parties because any pre-election coalition would be risky, very risky and would break coalitions or simply discourage political parties from entering pre-election coalitions. For this reason, too, this matter should be considered and people who are experts in fine and nuanced conflict decisions should be consulted on this matter when it comes to the electoral right of action, which are simulated under the given circumstances. For these reasons, I will return to that sentence from the beginning, so it is good that MPs show moral responsibility and moral sense when it comes to its own role in contributing to legality, contributing to respect for the legal order, and also that the legislative body reaches for the penalization mechanism more strongly than it has been so far. But you need to be careful. How, in what cases, to what extent? The same applies to the extension of the voter's right or influence on the outcome of the elections when the list of individual parties is followed. So we need to see if it's three or it's two, and we can't see it from a small finger or a good will. This has to be the result of serious work, serious professional evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1524	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused more replicas, so let's take it in a row. First, she's the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1525	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm especially glad to hear from you on the line from a respected colleague. Soon you will be here when you will lift my immunity in the House, when they will vote and I will be glad that you will all vote yes, as I am glad to see it so, since I have one trial. But I am not important in this trial, but those who live in Vukovar, especially my friends Tomislav Josic, Mr. Zivkovic, who gave two sons to Vukovar, who had one hearing yesterday again. What's this about? By proposing this law, those who fought for the freedom of Vukovar, who suffered were prosecuted, trampled, killed, those who because of their activities in their city of Vukovar, protecting the interests of the Croatian people, the dignity of the Homeland War and other things, will be convicted because many have already been prosecuted and punished for more than a few days or months. They will thus be prevented from continuing fighting in local elections for their city not like the one from '91. But in some form, you must fight for your survival as well as anyone who has fought in his life. I'm coming to someone else in that city who's been appalled for armed rebellion, as well as those who are suspected of war crimes, for the most serious forms of war crimes that have been released in the absence of evidence these days, although there are still living witnesses to their crimes. And since in the Croatian judiciary, a good colleague Pupovac notices, there are certain judges, certain processes, investigative actions that can't even prove that what the living witnesses say is true, we have witnessed that Vojislav Stanimirovic, who freed Vukovar from Croats and his Lovas from the Reverend Burik and 80 of his locals, sat in this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1526	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Milorad Pupoac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1527	Mr. Vice President. A false accusation is something that's also punishable. The imposition of charges contrary to the findings of institutions in charge of this, investigative, judicial, has also been punished. The party I belong to has been stigmatized for years, and today it is. And if this Stigmatisation will continue here in the Croatian Parliament towards people who have no proof that they have participated in anything that is unfair, or that is illegal, then it is not only a matter of a relationship with an individual but also a matter of relationship with those organised in one political party representing one community. That's exactly what I was thinking when I was talking about the need to talk about things that need to be sanctioned in this law, that is, those who encourage intolerance to discrimination should also be covered by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1528	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1529	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation, you have troubled this proposed solution because of the right to run. And I must say, in the good part, I share your skepticism of regularity. But I also have a dilemma about the constitutionality of this proposal. Because I would read Article 30 of the Constitution that no one has yet quoted in this debate and he is saying, a criminal conviction for serious and particularly unfair crimes may, in accordance with the law, result in losses acquired or a ban on acquiring certain rights to perform certain tasks if it requires protection of the legal order. I am not sure that the conditions that have been said here, and in particular that this refers to a probationary sentence, meets the criteria that it is a serious and particularly unfair crime which would then result in the loss of such a great right as the right to run for office and, consequently, the right to exercise office. In fact, there are indeed recommendations to go very restrictively to restrict passive voting rights and especially to run for office. And in that sense, I'd just say that I don't think it's even a problem what someone with a conviction is and even a little harder can run, but the problem is what the experience shows is that it's not an obstacle to being chosen, but that sometimes it's the reward they choose. That's a bigger problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1530	Thank you for having responded to the honourable representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk, what you have said and the provision of the Constitution you have quoted shows to what extent it is necessary to discuss this matter initiated by colleagues from the Most. And how many of us sitting here in this house discussing what our job is can actually know more than what an initiative or one group can know. And for that reason, I can't agree with what you've said, and that means that we're also in the risk zone, that this initiative, if it went further in this form, could actually run into a constitutional court and fall in the Constitutional Court. So something that's basically a good initiative, in good interest of mine would actually end up with some kind of collapse in the Constitutional Court. For this reason, there is no other way than to discuss, together with experts, including experts on constitutional law, criminal law and, of course, other experts on this matter and then to see what is realistically possible and what is proposed is not realistic and not sustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1532	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1533	Your Honor, my colleagues. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, is there any word of betrayal and high treason here? The Croatian Ethics Court has met several times and you have dozens of people from which some of me sit right here are already convicted of treason which may be the worst charge. Of course there was no media. Recently launched, the Ministry of Labour, in fact work and the pension system has now launched an indictment against the former DORH government for treason, high treason, a total media blockade. Now I don't know, it doesn't exist in the law, you should throw it in maybe. The second question is for election units that God gives Croats in the 11th constituency have the same rights as others in the 12th constituency. And it is obvious to every man who has two strokes of the brain that Croats from the diaspora are deliberately excluded from economic and social development. That's why some have to fly there and Vancouver there has 40 grand, 6 hours to vote in Toronto, Ottawa. We saw with the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are the constituent people to... Open consulates in northwestern Herzegovina, for example Livno, Central Bosnia and other places would not have those crowds down there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who are they afraid of? They're afraid that people will come here to edit the legal system, which will create a functioning state, and that they'll kidnap the fronts of some people who did this to this country, where we have parallel systems, legal, banking, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1534	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1535	If a colleague of Glasnović was referring to the so-called. the judgment of the so-called An ethical court where I am one of the Croatian traitors along with former President Stipe Mesic, former SDP president and former Prime Minister Ivica Racan, former Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Foreign Affairs and recently vice president of this house. I can only say I'm proud to be in that society and be such a traitor. I'd be ashamed to be among those who call upon an ethical court like you do. I'd be ashamed to hide in a black country for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1536	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauche.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1537	Dear colleague, I agree with you in principle in the part where you said you should be very careful when limiting passive voting rights. So passive voting law is one of the fundamental civil rights and when limiting something that is the foundation of democracy needs to be very careful. It's my personal belief, which is why I'm saying it now and not on behalf of the club that citizens as sovereign must have the right to choose everyone. If someone was convicted of some crime... It's a very public matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The citizens, however, decide to choose that person, that is their decision, that decision is sovereign. And I think we're on very thin and moral and constitutional ice when we give ourselves the right to exclude some people from political life no matter how disgusted they are. The people have, they must have the right to choose the worst of the worst if they want to. So these people represent them. But here's what I was going to say that here in this law they found their place some crimes that really did. Which really isn't the place. And that's where I kind of even agree with my colleague Culei, who I'm seeing, he found himself quite this well-known and threatened because it's a physical injury. And I believe that for a bodily injury which, especially which is being sued for, is being prosecuted in a private lawsuit, which has been prescribed for up to three years. I mean, it's about something that's on the level of slapping to some kind of push, as long as there's no bone fracture. We're talking about something that's relatively common, and it's possible to get a prison sentence of up to 3 years. You get 3 months of rehab or 3 years. So that's one relatively benign act. No crime is benign to understand, but the deadline is terribly long there is no proportion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1538	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1539	Thank you. You actually elaborated some parts of the questions I asked in my speech better than I did. Therefore, I can only thank you for what you've done. And I believe that in your debate you will do it even more extensively. It is, therefore, that this effort seriously violates not only that of the Constitution quoted by counterpart Bauk, but one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution, which is the principle of proportionality when it comes to the adoption of judgment and the exercise of rights and the restriction of rights. Here, the right to be disproportionate to what is a work and at the same time endangers, restricts one of the fundamental universal rights, such as the right to be chosen and the right to choose. And in that sense, it's extremely important that we don't fall into that trap. I'm not among those who think there shouldn't be any restrictions, I think because of the circumstances, because of not only public perception but also because of the fact that we've been going through over the past 25 years that there has to be some form of penalization in order to strengthen the responsibility of those who are acting in public responsibilities. However, this should be done very, very selectively and cautiously. We had recently in Slovenia a former prime minister who came from prison to meet at his national parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1540	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1541	Dear colleague Pupovac, I agree with most of your debate, especially in this section where you said we were actually considering a very sensitive matter. And I absolutely agree that when we talk about the catalogue of criminal offences listed in this bill, we cannot consider all criminal offences equally in terms of the ban on running. And that is why we have before us this procedure in which we will also have a thematic session and we will include in one particular way and the public who can make some suggestions. Some of the crimes mentioned by Mr. Culey and the other gentlemen of the council and in this assembly may not deserve to be about the ban on running, to have such a restrictive approach. However, the offences of corruption, taking, receiving and giving bribes, crimes of abuse of position and authority should be criminal offences that have a zero degree of tolerance, according to which there must be a zero degree of tolerance and which, whether there is unconditional or conditional condemnation to a prison sentence, should certainly be subject to a ban on running. Both with regard to the execution of fines and with regard to the course of the rehabilitation deadlines. And I disagree with those who speak in the direction that citizens must have the ability to choose all persons regardless of whether they are convicted or not. We've just been elected by citizens to prevent the kidnapping and corruption and robbery of this country that's been going on for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1542	The reply to the replica will be given by the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1543	Given the time we live in and given the knowledge we possess, I agree with you that the issue of abuse of power and position is an extremely serious problem for all of us who perform public duties either at the national level. And that it is necessary to strengthen the sense of responsibility and awareness of the criminality of such acts and that politics cannot be a refuge for those who would like to be inaccessible for criminal offences, I agree. But we need to see how.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1544	The next replica of the esteemed representative Furi Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1545	Thank you very much. Two things concerning this second part of the bill and these are preferential votes. As you know the provision on quotas for women, on mandatory quotas, the mandatory quota for women is delayed from election to election, and it amounts to 40%. The parties are constantly avoiding it, and the parties have led to a situation which at this point results in us being at the beginning of Europe as regards the number of women in Parliament. Even now, after artificially correcting the average, we'll be among the last. Therefore, the preferential voice that has turned one into three votes gives us the opportunity to introduce that quota and that one preferential vote, and perhaps two, should be calculated well because there is also a part that belongs to the party belongs to women. That way we'll become sexually distributed to say a little more civilized. The other thing is psychological nature and I'll be very brief there. One reason why Article 15 was not respected The constitution that speaks of minorities, that minority members can vote to shorten politically and ethnically, was also psychological. Why should the majority people vote once and minorities twice? Now, the majority people will vote three times, so maybe the minorities will be able to vote twice if we apply Article 15 in this way. The Constitution finally and after so much effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1546	Thank you. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1547	Dear colleague Radin, first of all, regarding the representation of the number of women or percentage of women on the list for the Croatian Parliament, you are right and I support it with full awareness and equal responsibility when it comes to my political party. The parties must simply increase the proportion of women on the lists for representative bodies from local to national and when the election law is amended it is certainly one of the things that should be installed and clearly determine the percentage you speak of. As for the fact that this could be done through a preferential model, I'm not sure that's possible. So, I'm not sure it's possible that of the three preferential votes that one must be reserved for a woman. I don't know if the legislator could handle such a solution without going through a constitutional check. But if the number of women is bigger than they are now, then the probability of some of them getting preferential votes should increase significantly, so it could be the way it seems. As for this Article 15. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia is quite in place, but as we know, there is the opinion of the Constitutional Court and it is our responsibility to turn that opinion of the Constitutional Court into legislative practice, which we have not yet done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1548	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1549	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Pupovac. So, in your debate, you have touched the issues of the size of the electoral units and so to express the weight of the mandate of one. I agree here that these electoral units as they are now, now there are many who agree that they are not the best tailored ones. However, I am a supporter of those statements especially in the context of this if we once again emphasise that the basis of democracy or the main premise is that we are all politically equal. I'm a member of those people who think all politics is actually local. That's my understanding. There was a debate here whether or not the mayors of the municipalities should sit in the Parliament. We have to decide whether we want to either have an escalator and a salon policy or we want to have a real policy. Like one of our colleagues said yesterday because you live with people, you know how people live. We live with people, we know how people live, and that's why I think any law that introduces political inequality is not good. And why do I think that? So our political action, either through municipalities, cities and ultimately the county is limited by that local space. We act at best in the county assembly and that's what we do. And as I said before in the previous replica of my colleague Simic, if my county is three times smaller than the county that is in the same constituency, then my chances are simply three times less and it can be mathematically proven. When it comes to women, here's a colleague, Radin, mentioned, we can also mathematically show in the experiment that a woman will not have the same chance. And a member of minorities who won't be in the 12th constituency, who will be in any of these 10 constituencys. It's also less likely. If the law is in any part of it, even if it's in an experiment, even if it's unfair in that premise, then we need to think carefully about fixing it and see what we can actually do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1550	The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1551	My dear colleague, you're right. So the issue of regional equality of citizens that is being violated by the configuration of electoral units is a serious problem for us. This can be resolved exactly this way if fair is done, it can be resolved by addressing the issue of disproportionateity of the weight of parliamentary mandates per constituency. If you take for example. 4th constituency or 5th constituency and compare it with some other constituency units you will see that the ratio is bare. This too needs to be changed, and it is especially necessary to change the inequality of citizens when life is in one region or another, one environment or another. And when you say that all politics is local, and if you think that full equality can be achieved among citizens by transferring at local level and accomplishing on a local level, I agree with you, of course. But the assumption that this would be done is to gain power at a national level and that those who hold the keys can be privileged or that they can reflect that kind of interest of people on a local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1552	And the last replica is those respected MPs Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1553	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, the esteemed fellow Pupovac, even though the debate has just begun, is already in the process of measuring. And you mentioned him in your presentation. So, should we change the Electoral Law? Well, of course you should. And about that there's been an entire chronology since the '90s on here, I think eight times it's been changed or more, let me correct the lawyers. But how is it supposed to be changed? It should be changed exclusively with a professional and reasoned discussion, a professional and reasoned approach. And that's where you'd pull the parallel with the previous point when we talked about the HRT Act. The literature experts say that when the election law changes, there are always two fundamental issues. The first question is whether he is changing because of the dissatisfaction of the people sitting in politics or because of his real intention to change and then these demands, then these changes are structural and comprehensive. I believe, and say that the symbiosis of one and the other actually gives the right result of the amendment to the Electoral Law, I believe that the intention of a colleague and all of us here is to make these changes a symbiosis of both and each other and that our citizens are satisfied and so that we get a truly quality Electoral Law. And all of these chronological changes that we've been following since the '90s have just been going in this direction that every time the changes were more significant and significant that we would come up with preferential votes, to come up with all of these facts that we're talking about today. But your mention of Article 10. The Penal Code only contributes to the fact that the catalogue of criminal offences, despite being complemented, is still not likely to be adequate and in that sense I call once again to approach this subject with caution, delicately. And what you indicated in your discussion, therefore professionally and comprehensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1554	And the answer of the esteemed representative Milorad Popovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1555	Dear colleagues with your invitation to respect expertise and include expertise in this sensitive issue. There are so many models of electoral legislation that most of us have no idea about three elements. On the other hand, there are really different experiences of people’s penalization in public affairs. And it is very important that we hear experts what they think is one model, which brings another and which is suitable for countries like Croatia. And we can't miss it. And colleagues from the Most after the debate on the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure agreed, and that is one of the two conclusions that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure adopted. And that means that the thing comes back among those who can help make the best decisions in this matter. As for the questions that await a colleague has mentioned, he rightly mentioned, we have the boundaries of the electoral units I don't know since. They're older than my presence in the Parliament. We have the county borders, too. Are they the expression of trust in the citizens? No, they're not. Are they an expression of recognition of local and regional interests of citizens? No, they're not. There is one region that speaks its own language but many Croatian regions do not. Why? Well, because their tongue has long been cut off or limited. There are, of course, political parties who are trying to speak beyond that language, such as the Slavon-Baranja Party and others who have tried. But it really takes something to change that. And that's basic questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1556	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to the next club of MPs, that's that Most Independent Lists in the name of which the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1557	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Since the elections for the Croatian Parliament in 2015, MOST Independent Lists has been pushing for a significant reform of the electoral system, to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament. In this sense, we have advocated and will continue to push for the democratisation of the electoral system, which will allow the voters to have maximum influence on the election of MPs, a reform of election units that will implement the principle of equality of the vote of all voters in Croatia, and here are many colleagues here in this debate and mentioned. To enable the introduction of a letter vote in perspective, which should ultimately contribute to the greater participation of Croatian citizens in the elections and especially the greater responsibility of MPs towards their voters. We must not interfere with this debate, and we must be very concerned that the voter's response in the previous elections for the Croatian Parliament was only about 52% and so far represents the smallest response of citizens to parliamentary elections, not counting naturally on the European Parliament elections. The reason why nearly half of Croatian citizens do not go to the most important state elections is certainly a lot, but among them there is certainly electoral legislation that gives little influence to citizens on the choice of their representatives. Of course, the overall electoral reform will require a broad public debate and the greatest consensus in the Croatian Parliament to be implemented and these are also those who spoke before me and mentioned it. The beginning of such a debate is expected very quickly and we will try to speed it up ourselves. However, we have singled out two important aspects of electoral legislation which we would like to legally standard more quality now at the beginning of the mandate that we have highlighted as our condition for forming a government. The first aspect refers to the legal restrictions of running for office of MPs who have been convicted of certain criminal offences that make it impossible for individual candidates, we believe that it is of exceptional importance that the conviction for certain offences be an elimination factor for any person when running for the Croatian Parliament. We believe that persons convicted of certain criminal offences, there is no place in the highest representative body and should not carry out responsible public duties. Of course, in the parliamentary debate, we will seek to reach a consensus that all crimes should be normised as difficult and especially unhonorable for the performance of a representative's duty. And these are also special representatives of Pupovac and others who participated mentioned that all of course the legal acts that we have now listed here in the catalogue do not have the same weight. The second aspect concerns the introduction of three preferential votes that each voter will be able to assign to candidates on a particular candidate list instead of a single vote so far. The preferential vote was put first in the elections for the European Parliament and only then for the elections for the Croatian Parliament. And we must remember how much only the legislative initiatives were in the previous parliamentary mandate of the various parties and individual representatives who wanted to issue a preferential vote for the elections for the Croatian Parliament and only after the citizens' initiative signed by more than 380 thousand citizens in October 2014 and who, among other things, requested the introduction of a preferential vote, the Parliament strengthened the right of each vote to assign one vote to each candidate on the list, provided that the preferential votes for each candidate are counted in case they account for at least 10% of the total vote for the list. Such a modest model of preferential voting has been tested twice in the elections for the Croatian Parliament and its effects are limited in the sense that these preferential votes have very little impact on the election of MPs. This means that the order of candidates set out in the establishment of the candidate list is still the most important one for the selection of a large majority of MPs. An analysis of the 2015 and 2016 parliamentary elections shows that in the 2015 elections, only 6 out of 143 MPs were elected in 11 electoral units without representatives of national minorities, thanks to the number of preferential votes. Because of the order on the list, they would be selected regardless of the number of preferential votes. In the 2016 elections recently held, 11 MPs were elected thanks to preferential votes, and according to the order on the list would otherwise not be selected. This means that a preferential vote with one vote and a 10% threshold affects only a very small number of candidates. The election is still crucial in order on the list they set out as party leaders. With the introduction of three preferential votes, and the number advocated in all the proposals and initiatives so far, we expect that, at the 10% threshold we would also like to reduce or remove, the effect of the preferential vote on the election of MPs will be significantly higher, especially on the candidate lists of parties or coalitions on which a larger number of candidates will be elected. With the introduction of three preferential votes, it will give each voter a much greater opportunity to influence the election of representatives on the list to be voted on. So in future, when this law is passed, the voter will be able to vote not only for example for the first candidate on the list, which was the most common case so far, but will be able to give a preferential vote for two more candidates, allowing a significantly higher number of candidates than so far to exceed the 10% vote threshold compared to the total number of votes on the list. The candidates themselves will more address the electoral body for preferential votes and encourage voters to vote. The candidates will feel more responsible for the electoral body than has been the case so far. It is clear that by strengthening the preferential voting model, there will be other consequences, a minor influence of party leadership on the election of MPs, within the party's competition for preferential votes, an impact on the pre-arranged allocation of seats in pre-election coalitions, etc. But at the end of what is most important, by adopting this law and by introducing three preferential votes, we will finally, after a full two-year period, implement at least one of the requirements, although perhaps not the most important one signed by 380 thousand citizens asking to elect MPs, means their representatives by name and last name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1558	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused several replicas. The first one is those distinguished representatives of Martha Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1559	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. This amendment to the Law on Elections by a representative in the Croatian Parliament is a small amendment to the law. With this amendment, the applicant for the Most states that he is testing his large political partner. The point of purpose and seriousness of such behaviour of the applicant is raised. In fact, any amending the law is a serious and responsible job and it is not a good thing to do to test someone. Furthermore, MP Simic, on behalf of the promoter, says and acknowledges that this law needs a more comprehensive amendment but that it is now going with a small change to begin with. Dear gentlemen of the MOST, this attitude is unacceptable and it is a matter of one legal uncertainty and endangers the legal order. Amendments to the law should be comprehensive, systematic, should take place in a regular procedure and should be given the opportunity to consult an interested professional public. As for the number of preferential votes, the increase in the number of preferential votes sounds good and anyone would accept such a proposal. However, that question needs to be considered. Let us be honest that preferential votes lead partly to the estradisation of policy and political action. Politicians are raising voters to win preferential votes. The question is whether we want it and to what extent. Furthermore, we make it impossible for new and young politicians to affirm themselves and who have proven themselves in their political parties and in their small electoral units. We also make it impossible for women to affirm themselves in political parties and in political action. Therefore, the preferred votes yes, but how complex a matter is to be considered more seriously and not to change it like this ad hoc just to test someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1560	Thanks will be answered by the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1561	Dear colleagues, I don't know if it was written before, what you've read now because it's clear and it's said here in the debate to go into regular procedure and counseling so I don't know when it was prepared for what you've just read. So we'll respect all the comments, the suggestions, that's what we've already said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1562	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1563	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague, you have stated that the introduction of three preferred votes gives voters a greater choice and that it is therefore a minor influence means... parties to the selection of their representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course I agree with that. Among other things, you listed the data that only 11 MPs selected with preferences and everyone else entered the Parliament thanks to the place on the list. Of course everything you've stated is true. However, I would just like to point out here that this is a good start but should continue, it means to do the part about promotional activities, campaigning and funding. For example, Article 29 of the Law states that HTV and the radio are obliged to monitor electoral promotion and during the election period all participants in the elections are obliged to make their electoral programmes available under the same conditions. For example, in the third constituency there were 17 lists, 14 candidates, it is 238 candidates or persons, times 10 electoral ones it is already 2380 plus national minorities plus diaspora that is about 2500 participants in the election process. And how do we now provide everyone with the same opportunities? So this is a good start, and I agree that maybe three preferred votes should have been introduced before, but that these aspects should still be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1564	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. My colleague Bauk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1565	My colleague Maras gave me advice, so... The esteemed colleagues of Grmoya are two things that this, two articles are important in this law, one with three preferential votes. And I said, from the point of view of the ban, I'm sorry for making it harder for the pre-election coalitions. This is a big change. In another article, too, it must be analised to be, in order to be a small change, that fact must be actuated. So let the political parties agree on their pre-election agreements beyond the results of the preferential vote. Also when you spoke about the number of MPs who entered on the basis of the preferential vote, you said too little. Because the MPs at the top of the list got over 10%. The parties agreed and coalitions lied for tactical reasons to put some individuals in a lower place to further encourage citizens to vote for those individuals and that list. The most obvious example was an example in the 10th election unit of the Most list in the previous elections when Bozo Petrov was 14. You did it to get more votes that way. We had Mr. Brkic's case in 2nd constituency. So you didn't quite read it, and you didn't get the two numbers together, and the political parties did make sure that at the top, the order was more or less logical, so it implies some kind of popularity in the public. As far as Article 1 is concerned, and this is a ban on running, my impression is that you have imposed a conditional ruling on a reason for not running outside the scope of Article 30. The Constitution, the team, more so in Article 56. The Penal Code speaks of when the sentence of probation will be passed taking into account the person of the perpetrator, the former life, etc. So, I apologize, Mr. President, for 15 seconds. My impression is that you've made a parolee for one person only.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1566	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoi will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1567	Dear counterpart Bauk, I agree with you that the parties in most of their lists draw together so that the most popular people who can bring them the most votes put in the top of their lists, but there are some different cases where some want to be punished, or when some combinations are done to eliminate someone, then voters are those with this one preferential voice that can change but not to a large extent, or not more than that, as will be the case with these three preferential votes. And as for this to apply to one man, I have no problem saying that the problem is that one party for one of the mayors is essentially the mayor of the city, who is most famous in the world public running for a man who is legally convicted. What that party did, and now you're telling us to go with that law, that precisely because we have such cases and that certain parties do it, we're going with this law. If that party hadn't done it, it wouldn't have been necessary. So that the parties act as they should, means that they have some moral responsibility towards Croatian voters we wouldn't go with such a law, we shouldn't limit something legally if some parties do such things. I think that's clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1568	Thank you. The distinguished representative Giovanni Sponza will be next, giving the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1569	Thank you. Here I said in the replica to Mr. Simic, I will repeat here and on this occasion to Mr. Grumoja that it is good, really very good that MOST as a promoter has changed its attitude and accepted that consultation with the interested public should be conducted. You said Mr. Grumoja today in your address and you used the term consensus and that as promoters you want to listen carefully and try to achieve as much consent as possible which is not good again, but very good. And it is indeed a political standard for all to strive for because of the attitude and approach of responsibility to each subject and especially to the law. I believe that you and I will also agree between, in the next between good intentions, which is one thing but also a responsible and professional unequivocal and enforceable law that it is quite another dimension and another. So I would like to underline what Mr. Pupovac has pointed out and what the Rules of Procedure himself has made possible for you in the work of the parent bodies so that the profession can be used, included and extended the composition of the board and I hold that we can all make a significant contribution together. Because the topic of electoral legislation is an important topic. This is only one part of the segments of the overall electoral legislation and I believe that we should really all approach together very and responsibly and at a high level of consciousness. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1570	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1571	Thank you, Vice President. I listened very carefully to your debate, and I will not refer to much of what you have spoken of but to your introduction. Hearing that you have an intention, because we all agreed that we should expand and further develop this law, that you intend to introduce a letter vote in the elections when choosing. To me, the first association of what is happening in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think a letter vote would be a step back in democracy for one single reason, because I know that in these local elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, hundreds of voters living in Croatia did not get a chance to vote in writing because the simple materials did not come to them even though they asked for them. Also, remember what happened in Srebrenica where votes are counted for a week and the result is expected. Among other things, they send materials to Sarajevo to count. I think that certainly a letter vote would slow the whole process, we need to think more about the future and what was announced in so-called. digitization. So maybe we're going to go to voice online instead of mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1572	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1573	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear comrade Grmoya, here I am going to be persistent, so I'm going to re-publish what makes me want to put it that way. You said that, I agree, that the motivation for a preferential vote in a particular politician's work is probably working during a previous period where he proved himself and proved himself worthy, a good politician representing their interests. However, let me put it this way, I'm going to ask you a specific question, which you think would be the motivation of a Nasic voter whose mayor is doing very badly, to vote for the list for the mayor of Slatina who is doing an excellent job. What kind of motivation would that be, and does this guy in Nasice even know what's going on in Slatina, and does he even care? Let me get back to the beginning. Those who are worthy, who proved themselves to be ministers, who have proven themselves already as MPs will have a chance and that's good, let people have a chance. But as someone new, how someone who hasn't been affirmed at the state level will have the chance to get a preferential vote. That's where I see it as a danger. How many women today are mayors, the mayor of the municipalities, how many of them are in representative bodies, in local self-government units. That information I don't know now, but I'd probably be defeated if we found out. And again I say if the law, the bill of any measure discriminates against anyone then he's no good. But your desire and your desire to fix it is certainly welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1574	Thank you. The distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoi will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1575	Dear colleague, I agree with all these problems that exist. But I don't think the introduction of three preferential votes will harm or cause any more problems. Here I come from the city, or I'm the deputy mayor. So, I have a mayor I'm the deputy and I'm proud of. So when we were putting together a list for Metkovic, and even when we were putting together all the lists, we tried to respect the quota in the Republic of Croatia, but we also tried to give professional women that we have on our team an appropriate role. I am not ashamed to say that my mayor is a much better candidate for Mayor Metkovic, i.e. that she will perform that function much better than I am and that is why she was our candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1576	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1577	Dear comrade Grmoya, this law is one of the famous Most 7 guarantees. Right? The more I get to know them, don't be mad at me, the more they look at me like seven dwarfs. I don't think you've invested more time in preparing this bill than I've invested in preparing this replica. Here's why. So far, there has been a ban on running for persons who have not passed that period of rehabilitation for criminal offences and have committed crimes in Chapter IX. And the X. Penal Code. You're extending it to the heads of XVI, XVII. and XVIII. But I'm asking you why you didn't spread it and say it to chapter 32. These are acts against the Republic of Croatia. That's where your high treason belongs. Or you might think that a man who committed high treason can run to be a representative in the Parliament. Then acts of chapter 33 against a foreign state or an international organisation. For example, this includes the murder of a person under international protection. Or chapter 31 against the election law. The one who faked the election procedure. You think these people are similar to being in the Croatian Parliament? So if you'd put a little more effort into it, here's how much I've invested in preparing this replica, you'd probably have put this into law, but you didn't have time for it obviously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1578	Thank you. The distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoi will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1579	Dear colleague, I thank you for your suggestions. In my presentation, I said that in the debate that follows, we would come up with a catalogue, meaning those works that we would put into the law itself. We also want to respect your suggestions. And as for this, if our guarantees were dwarves, I'd like you to make a deal. He claims it's a big change. Then HNS colleagues obviously got very upset and even left the assembly because of these dwarves of ours, so I'd like you to agree whether they're dwarves or if they're big changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1580	And the last replica is the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1581	Thank you very much. The main thing for me is three preferential votes that give all candidates an equal position and, of course, the most important thing is that the majority of candidates will cross 10% of the border. But I think it would be much better if there was no 10% limit. But if we have votes, people get the votes of their voters, and I don't see the reason why they exist. Surely when there are three votes, three candidates can be rounded by a voter. Surely more candidates will have more votes. That's... So I don't see this 10% limit at all that it should be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You should think about what I'm saying or shrinking or not if there are three preferential votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1582	Thank you. The distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoi will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1583	Well, I thank my colleague Bull. I absolutely agree with you, but that provision requires consensus, so we have 14 hands in the Croatian Parliament. There's our colleagues. We'll come to the debate and I'm convinced of the best solutions, so if we have a consensus on that, we'll go that way. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1584	Now we'll interrupt the session and take a break until two o'clock and continue at two o'clock. The next one is the club of MPs, the first one will be HDS, HSLS's distinguished representative Branko Hrg. There he is, thank you. It's 1:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1585	Good afternoon, everyone! We're continuing the club debate. Next up is the HDS and HSLS Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1586	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's everyone, of course, wants to say something about electoral legislation, which is very important, and in the end, based on this electoral legislation, and we are sitting here in this assembly. And when we open a topic like this, it certainly opens a whole series of other topics related to the elections, from what has already been said here and said election units, to the number of voters per election unit, and I would even like to point out that it might be convenient to open the subject of the Croatian Parliament itself, the Croatian Parliament, that we should consider whether the introduction of that former County home, even as a volunteer, might be good for Croatia. I personally think so. So there's a whole series of questions. It is good to give up the rapid adoption of amendments to this law and to move into a regular procedure, to allow, as the promoter has announced, a broad public debate that will certainly bring out a lot of good proposals and probably a lot of controversy. Each party, of course, is trying to protect itself and its interests in amendments to electoral legislation and to see how it will go best in some future elections and all this is legitimate and normal, so such laws are relatively difficult to pass. But, as already said here on several occasions, this is not really any newspaper, these amendments to the law in particular regarding three preferential votes are something that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have already given their opinion in the good part. Let us remember those 385 949 signatures that have been collected and when a referendum on the introduction of a preferential vote for the Croatian Parliament is requested. I must remember myself and all of you together that at that time, with a strange mathematical maneuver, then Minister Bauk somehow manipulated the Croatian public and Croatian citizens and suddenly explained that 10% of the total number of voters had 410 thousand signatures, and that only a few months after that was published a list of voters with 3 million and 700 voters who went to the polls. Which means that 385 nearly 386 thousand voters were in fact quite enough numbers and more than needed to carry out the referendum. Of course, the ruling majority were afraid of the referendum at the time because the referendum would certainly produce what the majority did not agree with, as happened in the referendum on the marriage of a man and woman as a community of men and women, so you know it again and again and that referendum part has been manipulated and manipulated by the will of the citizens because after that it was passed that strange law that actually reequaled what the citizens wanted with what they did not want. But let everyone go to his honor and to his soul. I personally and myself participated in the collection of these signatures and it is clear that both our own club supports the introduction of a trio preferential voice. We think that it is certainly good for democracy, for the development of democracy, that it certainly allows many of our citizens to get involved and that they can run and I believe that the introduction of these three preferential votes would even motivate a larger number of citizens who may have so far refused to enter the electoral lists to motivate them to activate and run for the Croatian Parliament. What bothers me a little bit like that in that part is that 10% threshold. Do three preferential votes ever need that threshold after the introduction? Would it not be more normal if people were already allowed to choose three candidates on the list to simply remove the threshold and make the final list of selected ones by the number of votes won in the order that goes. It's an even fairer way. This is what lawyers need, of course, to see as much as possible and not as much as possible. But in any case, I think it could still contribute to one better system of human selection. Is, as you can hear here in these discussions today, it's good or not, can it be controlled in some way? I think so. Because anyway, the parties are proposing people to the lists, and I believe that every candidate or candidate on the list is in principle valid and that every candidate or candidate is a good member of that party or candidate on that list and that now only depends on what environment the more candidates support. Surely this can bring out better candidates or candidates who have better support for their constituents, their fellow citizens, people who therefore are in that constituency. But it really doesn't need to be distracted from the mind that this section is considering a slightly larger package of changes and that it really is considering very closely this problem that arises about the number of voters per election unit and the appearance of the election units themselves. It is good that this initiative was launched literally at the very beginning of this mandate. There is no rush, we have time, there can be a good debate, we can discuss it and then we can pass a better quality law that will allow Croatian citizens to make a better choice. What makes me kind of happy, but I don't think that's what it's supposed to be is an extension of the running ban. When there was a debate on the last amendments to the law, I said the same thing then as an opposition representative, and I asked that some parts of the law be banned from running for certain people who wanted to run for office. And I'm going to say this, it's not the same thing that's already been said here, when someone makes an accident, not even by their guilt or by some car accident where unfortunately people get hurt, like someone knowingly steals something. Well, that's not the same thing. Politicians and politicians are people who are under a special public increase, and what you don't do for it is often your fault, let alone if you do. And you can't take a stain off of yourself if you're convicted of stealing anything. That stain stays. It's said that people still choose, so he has a choice that they can choose or not, yes, but we as people who should take care of themselves and their status, who should worry about what we want, send a message to the public, we have the opportunity to disable groups of those who didn't deserve to be publicly exposed somewhere that they can't be exposed at all. I believe the citizens would welcome it. It doesn't go on anybody's name or name right now, it could be listed, but either way, if you ever steal anything, you're a thief whether you're serving time or not, that's what's left for you. And if it's a politician, then that's the problem because of that politician, all of us who deal with it are wearing that stain. We all have a politician's denominator, we all carry that burden because we're all in this business, it's our team, it's the assembly where we all act and work. I think you should see the possibilities that for such types of misdemeanors are practically impossible to run regardless of what the deadline of trials has expired or the sentence has expired. I don't know if it's possible or not, if it gets into some other freedoms, that's what the lawyers will know, but the message should be sent. I want to point out here that this job and the process of amending this law are also one process in which we will send a message to the citizens and that it is very, very important and important what message we send because the citizens are watching this assembly and we are all here when we are often having a rough debate, when we often compete outside the topic, we send an ugly picture and we all suffer it. With election legislation amending the election law, by introducing a peripheral vote with three candidates, I believe that even that part can be reduced by a certain percentage. I must say here that I congratulate the promoter on this proposal. I thank you in my personal, and on behalf of those who have been collecting signatures to introduce this to you for putting it on the agenda and I believe that we will all succeed together in bringing where and where better law and that we will begin to restore the reputation of politicians to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1587	Thank you very much, colleagues. We have five replicas. The first came to the line, the distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1588	Dear colleague Hrg, I agree with you. At first, you pointed out that it was good to give up the emergency procedure, that this was the way the debate on the law itself and as well as any law, and in particular this one opens up a whole series of issues so that these three preferential votes should be seen in the context of what it means in the framework of party bargaining and coalition agreements. We remember all previous elections that there were coalition agreements. In theory, it can happen and it has often occurred that three candidates enter the list, a coalition agreement predicts that one of those candidates who will join the Assembly will be from another party, and the citizens have decided to make it preferentially the three. This raises the issue and division of equality within the electoral units. For example, Primorje-goranska, Split-Dalmatia are divided into several electoral units. 8th electoral unit Rijeka, Istria, islands, 7th constituency only one small part of the coast, Gorski kotar with very small numbers of voters, the whole of Karlovočka County and part of the City of Zagreb, and now the question of the amount of these votes that candidates from a particular constituency will be able to obtain from a particular area for their own preferential exit and entry into the Parliament. And there is another question of the visibility of the candidates themselves and their quality and media exposure in view of the place where they live, in the area where they act and the possibility of being recognizable to voters. So all of this needs to be discussed, one quality law that will not only apply to these three preferential votes, but will consider a little broader only this issue and in any case it is good and I agree with you to enter into this way of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1589	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1590	Thank you very much, dear colleague Klaric. We're longtime local officials, so then we can say that we always look at it that way and on that side and on that level. That's why I said in my presentation it might be time to discuss whether it takes a little bit stronger to hold onto all of this and simply to see if it's time to introduce this second home that would be the local character where it would be possible to acquire that visibility especially for people from local levels who would be volunteering and where they would practically be local officials and represent local interests. This is what happens to us now when a law is passed, of course, that we all who come from what environments, especially if we're mayors and mayors, we fight each and every one of us for our own territory, each one of our own space. And in this way, only national policies would be put in parliament and in this second home would go to the local one where it would be discussed more strongly, it would be more strongly represented, of course, more recognizable. So in that part, and what you said about election units absolutely right, so look at only the second constituency, it's terrible how it's torn up, and there's no way you can figure out the story of someone being completely recognizable because you can't act in the entire area of the electoral unit because it's about 4 local, or regional units. So that's one big problem. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1591	Thank you, colleagues. Another replica, Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1592	Thank you very much, Vice President. I think the values of the preferential vote are somewhat overrated, and I talked a lot about it when we introduced it here and discussed it in the Croatian Parliament because I think and showed the elections that above the will of preferential choice there is also the will of the individual chosen and afterwards there is a disappointment of the voters in those who have chosen. Because the Croatian Parliament is still only the first step in forming a full power, it is formed in a way directly by the vote of individuals and then the executive power as the second pillar is again formed by parliamentary representatives based on the majority. Citizens select their candidates who become MPs but after that, the will of the individual chosen becomes above the will of the voters, i.e. above the value of that preferential vote. And now you have an example in the Croatian Parliament that the man who received the most preferential votes in the Croatian Parliament, Mr Zoran Milanovic 42 thousand 265 was in the assembly only 2 minutes and probably as far as I hear he does not want to be perhaps more parliamentary representative, I hear he will advise the Albanian government but that is his right he has risen above the value of that preferential vote. If he had won 100,000, he would likely have been even more disappointed by the number of voters because they primarily wanted him to be in the Parliament eventually in the executive power. So we're coming up with a situation where now the preferential voice is interpreted as the part that needs to work in forming an executive power. I think it may then be incorrect and the voters have been led by me in error by such reflections and perceptions. I think the first step for each one is achieved when it enters the Croatian Parliament and it should satisfy its ambitions and then go to different political rules. And that's why this is a subject that needs to be debated very well so that we don't get into something, and then I say to all sorts of jokes that made different wishes than what voters really want to achieve through a preferential voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1593	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1594	Thank you, dear fellow Boric. Unfortunately, voters are often disappointed by the many they choose at both local and national levels, in the Croatian Parliament. Just if there were more preferential voices, I think there'd be fewer cases like this that you're talking about because you know how it goes in some party hierarchy and still have a little time and then you plan on voting for someone somewhere rather than for those who want to. If there were more preferential votes, it would be harder to achieve the effect that would happen there. And if it wasn't for that 10% threshold, it would've made it even more possible for something like that to happen. And this responsibility that you're talking about is absolutely unfair and incorrect, that you don't respect what you're running for, that you're not in your workplace and that you don't come to that workplace, so you don't participate in that job especially if you have such a large number of voters, even if you're not a star anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1595	The next call came from a distinguished colleague named Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1596	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So my colleague, speaking of this law, referred to a referendum procedure, which was that of the “In the Name of the Family” Association called “Let’s Choose Representatives by Name and Last Name” and said of it a whole series of lies, not to say a harsh word concerning Minister Bauk. Dear counterpart, the decision on what number of signatures are needed to call a referendum in the Republic of Croatia has not been made either by me or by Minister Bauk, nor by anyone sitting in this Chamber, but has already been decided by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia after this House asked him what number of signatures needed to call a referendum in the Republic of Croatia. You, at the time, I checked, you weren't in the Parliament, you didn't vote on it, I don't know what you were saying in public then, but the fact is that you would remove any doubt, to define what number of signatures are needed to call a referendum? That's what we asked the Constitutional Court about. And do you know what the Constitutional Court's decision was? The decision was rejected by the proposal for the exercise of supervision of constitutionality and the legality of the implementation of the State referendum because no sufficient number of signatures were collected. The Constitutional Court then made it clear, not Minister Bauk or any of us, which is the number of signatures and on the basis of which the census is done. I'm extremely sorry that you chose this debate to present such harsh lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1597	The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1598	Dear Grbin, it is true that 385 949 signatures have been collected, it is true that the election list of voters 3 791 341, is true that it then gives the information that it takes 10% to list the voters 452 613 signatures. I don't go into constitutional court decisions, I respect them. There's nothing you can say. I'm just saying that a certain maneuver was made and that there was a political will to make something so sure that it could be done. It is you, then, as the ruling majority under public pressure, have, however, caved in so that the law has been amended and one preferential vote has been introduced. I'm assessing it even on your part with a certain positive shift. But the fact is that these figures are very strange and that they were discussed very much at the time and I also don't know what I said then, I certainly wasn't against that preferential vote since I was very active with the entire infrastructure involved in collecting signatures and asked for a preferential vote to be put in place. You could then suggest that in the end, seeing 386 almost thousands of Croatian citizens introduce this, to put it into the Election Law. Because you know yourself that the referendum would have passed if it had been called and that a preferential vote with three mandates would certainly have been put in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1599	The next replica is distinguished counterpart Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1600	Dear colleague Hrg, I have listened to yours and I agree and would therefore confirm that the new Election Law is a necessity for Croatia if it wants to finally come out of this crisis. This is the biggest obstacle both to the development of democracy and economic development in Croatia. The current Electoral Law promotes negative selection, gives party heads huge space and encourages clientelism. I'm not going to repeat here, this is a good intention of MOST and it's one of as they say guarantees, but it would be good to bring it to an end and it's a good thing that they gave up breaking it over their knees, but that one public debate goes, and another reading. So we'll see what's appreciated. I won't repeat what's been said. There are good suggestions here. We can do anything, anything, but if it's still 50% of the citizens who can choose to go to the polls, we didn't do anything. Now, as an economist, I'm thinking how do you encourage citizens to go out more in this election? In some countries they are punished, so a man is punished, a citizen, a voter for not coming out. I don't think that's popular because our citizens are already fined by the poor state of unemployment in this country, underprivileged incomes, etc. I would like to hear your opinion do you agree that certain tax incentives would be acceptable to voters and do you think they would increase turnout to the elections and do you agree with me and the party I belong to We change Croatia to change the election law dramatically change the political scene in Croatia? If this law was introduced tomorrow with these changes to me here, this would dramatically change here. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1601	Thank you very much. A reply to the replica of my colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1602	Well, I agree. Personally, I think that only the introduction of three preferential votes would motivate a larger number of voters and that would already be a greater turnout because in some ways it would be a refreshment that would appear on the political scene. Look, parties as parties must, of course, function within their own frameworks and certainly operate according to their own rules unless they are broken inside. But it is now the thing that the same requirement may require a little more consideration from the legislator within the violation of the regulations between individual parties. Well, if it was done, maybe it would be a little different. Do you give people stimulant to go to elections, do you make it a commitment to have to go to elections? They're things that are always disputable like that and they're always somewhere on a scale. I think we should do everything we can to amend electoral legislation to motivate people without any financial stimuli or any punishment. So, changes to electoral legislation, changes to election units, putting people's choices within a framework that already exists, so surely it would motivate voters more and they would come out more. Also this part of the preferential vote itself. But in any case, refreshment is necessary. I repeat, it is good that it has started the process, it is good that it started at the beginning of the mandate and that a peaceful public debate can be done in peace, hear both people and opinions and profession, and all this together to make something better for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1603	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Hrgo. The next replica is the esteemed representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1604	Dear counterpart Hrg, I would like to thank you on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists for supporting our proposal, especially commending the way in which the debate leads towards a constructive dialogue. Personally, I think it's unfortunate that we are here today at all and that the debate is by individuals who are already announcing constitutional lawsuits when it comes to this law. It's sad because it's actually going to protect those individuals who are legally convicted and whose politics are the only real refuge that keeps them safe so that further convictions don't happen. In that sense, thank you very much. I call on everyone to, as we have opened this process through a broad debate, come up with a consensus proposal of this law that will ultimately protect the maximum electoral legislation and legitimacy of all of us here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1605	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1606	In fact, I don't have an answer, but I can only say that I'm glad that we agree in that part, and I think that we have this absolute support and the public in such a view of the matter and that I repeat what I said earlier. It's a message to the public. What are we, like people who are going to press some of these buttons to the public? Do we feel that we want something cleaner or do we want it to be as anyone wants it to be? So that's our message. That's our picture. We now decide who we are, who we are, how we look at things and, of course, those who will be chosen by this new law tomorrow. So we introduce one purity into the electoral system, introduce a certain purity into the election process itself, but also in this Parliament in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1607	No more replicas. We're moving on to further discussion. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing one of the most important laws for the democratic political system of the Republic of Croatia The Law on selecting MPs in this rainy afternoon in front of a half-empty parliamentary representative, God of the Assembly, God of God. Excuse me, Hall. So this is one of the reasons why we were warning that this is a very important topic to go so quickly into the process and to go over the knee. Because I'm going to distract you even though he's a colleague, and now my colleague Grumoja is going to be replicating me, and I'm ready to do it, and he's going to tell us all that this debate is going to be going on, that is. that this point goes into two readings. However, the basic intensity of MOST colleagues was that these amendments to the law on selecting MPs go in just one reading. And it went to two readings only when we had the power of the arguments that we as a position actually forced fellow MOST colleagues not to take such an important issue quickly but rather to have a wider debate and not to break over their knees. Kola Šimic said on the committees that there are fewer serious amendments to the legislation and that we have much bigger, more serious changes to be made in the future and that then one more quality, wider debate with the interested public will take place. I was on the board at the time, and now I'm also behind those words. There is no less serious or serious change of law, especially when it comes to such an important law. So he also said that these are, that he said today that these are small steps, safe steps. It shows that MOST colleagues are clearly still afraid that their majority partner from HDZ will not play them. Because there is obviously still this dose of mistrust between the Most and HDZ. This law is one of seven MOST guarantees for forming a government and they consider it one of their key guarantees. And that is why they have forced this law to be adopted in such a procedure, not to go by some kind of procedure, as we would consider it to be the usual procedure for one upcoming parliamentary majority, especially which has assumed responsibility for the functioning of the Republic of Croatia and which now has two key ministers to amend such a law. So, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Administration. However, if there had been a regular change through the government, the government's procedure would have definitely lasted much longer, but for some reason it is obvious that MOST colleagues are in a hurry. I also want to point out that only after the pressure, but now I'm going to point out again, not by force of the vote, because we don't have any more votes than you do. You're most of us, you could've voted us out, but our arguments were obviously convincing. Only after our pressure on arguments have you agreed to open a wide public debate on this important subject. I think that the consultation process with the interested public is extremely important, although it does not refer to laws coming from legislators, it does not mean that we should avoid these legal obligations, i.e. So we can't take that higher standard. I don't think there is any law that can gain such an interest in the public such as the Law amending the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament. The question remains what we have asked and on the board why such urgency, because we have gained the impression that the vote of this law depends literally on the world to fail if it does not vote. And we couldn't figure out why, since the next election that should be conducted under this law should only be four years from now. Here we attended yesterday in the Croatian Parliament in the government's vote. The government of Mr Plenkovic, the HDZ government and the Most received 91 votes. I believe it's a stable government, and we believe it will last four years. And we don't get it in our head why one of these important laws tried to pass in a hurry. Unless the MOST colleagues have some information that we don't have, this government will take a little longer, so this law needs to be passed faster. But perhaps there are other reasons why this law is being implemented so quickly, and I could actually pull the parallel there because I think the next item on the agenda is to amend the Law on Local Elections that is changing and it would not be very convenient for us to have one stricter criteria in the elections for local authorities, so that the election of representatives for the Croatian Parliament remains so let's say a little less stringent than this Law on Elections for the mayors, mayors and local authorities. And why is he in such a hurry with these amendments to the Law on Local Elections, apart from the fact that local elections are around the corner maybe because this law and the amendments to the law will be able to regulate certain things according to the needs of certain political options. These amendments to the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament are in fact two chapters, two parts. One section speaks of a catalogue of criminal offences in case a person is sentenced to a prison sentence of more than 6 months or a suspended sentence that person will not be able to run for the Croatian Parliament. I believe first and foremost that we are slightly underestimating the citizens of the Croatian voters, I think that the person convicted of a crime, so legally convicted, who has a verdict, is a public figure for any crime and has very little chance of being elected by the citizens. But good. Let's go to these assumptions I don't know that the citizens are blind and deaf and that it may happen to them I don't know that they vote for someone who has a criminal verdict, so we feel this need to protect them from choosing the worst. Maybe it can be argued that way. I personally believe that no, I think that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to run whether he has a criminal verdict or not and the citizens have the right to choose whoever they want. But that's the standard that we are, i.e. It is my personal opinion, but it is a standard that we have adopted in previous amendments to the Law on the Selection of MPs by the Social Democratic Government, the Government of Zoran Milanovic. And that's the standard we'll stick to. However, any restriction on passive voting rights means one of the fundamental human rights, one of the fundamental civil rights, must be terribly careful and horrendously precise. And he must be able to resist the test of proportionality. So all crimes are harmful social consequences, particularly harmful and distasteful. I think you'll agree with that. Any person with a criminal conviction deserves contempt. And such criminal acts, i.e. Such social phenomena would not even be mentioned in the Penal Code if they were not so serious social consequences. But it's hard to talk about it now, and you see we're in trouble here, now we have to arbitration which crimes are less acceptable and which are more acceptable. In fact, when we were changing that law, we were reduced to some crimes we thought were truly, truly unacceptable, such as war crimes, terrorism, terrorist association, torture, slavery and serious murder. Now, it's quite difficult especially in this process, so the procedure that you've imagined, and that's one reading, is now reaching some consensus and taking all the arguments pro and constraint that the crime is harder than each other. But what I'm saying is that you've obviously written this bill in haste and I'm not going to tell you some mistakes, but inside have ended some entire chapters of the Penal Code that contain certain crimes that are by their nature, although crimes are not as severe as some other crimes. So bodily injury, physical injury or crimes that do not appear to be intentional, but out of nowhere cannot be in the same category as a war crime or I do not know rape. Of course, this is a lot of thin ice for everyone now, including me who's saying this. I'm putting myself in danger of anyone saying I'm banalizing criminal acts. No, I'm just saying that we need to approach it with extreme caution and extravagant studio. And I'm glad you accepted our proposal to conduct a broad public debate, to take into account the arguments of the profession, the arguments of all the interested public. For example, in the catalogue of criminal acts, there are obviously no criminal offences involved, such as kidnapping. You understand? I mean, kidnapping with fatalities isn't there. Or some crimes that may be so, I personally imagine that it might happen that someone is running for, say, who has a criminal conviction for non-payment of salaries or for discrimination on some grounds I don't know discrimination by age, sex, nationality or some other kind of discrimination. But it's not included in there. And that's why we need to have a wide debate about that part. As for the section on preferential voting, we agree in principle, but we also need to conduct a broad public debate here. Namely, that sounds very good and I agree that three preferential votes are not too much. I find it difficult to talk about it from the position of a person who has not received a significant number of preferential votes but most of us are here in this Croatian Assembly who have not received some huge number of preferential votes. But my point is, so the more we introduce the number of preferential votes, the more I talk to my colleague Bull about it during the break. We actually cement the current situation, so some of us in the previous elections that were first candidates received a number of votes, relatively small, a year later that number tripled. So once you get a chance to be exposed as a parliamentary representative, you get a chance to show yourself, represent some ideas and then of course you'll get more preferential votes. And if we were to introduce, say, 14 preferential votes, why three, why not five, why not 14. that will be crystallized in a public debate. We would de facto destimulate less-known candidates to run because they would de facto have no chance. And the argument that has appeared to be wanted in this way and this is very clearly said by fellow MOST colleagues that they want to influence the inability to conclude pre-election coalitions, I think it is a dangerous pre-election coalitions are democratic rights and that regardless of your need to control everything you will not be able to prevent. So if this process would reduce the influence of parties on creating a list, think about it a little bit. I know it's antipathetic to you, I know that MOST is an anti-Establismentary party but still the party, party presidents or party leaders in this system have the possibility of positive discrimination. Therefore, the possibility of positive discrimination should be considered, so that sub-represented sex, younger people, less well-known people who are then given the opportunity to contribute to the quality of the work of the presidential body. So none of us were born famous or recognizable. All those who entered this Croatian Assembly on the basis of preferential votes, and I take off their hat, I say immediately, I take off my hat, they had to earn their visibility somehow. So this system that's obviously so annoying to you has its advantages. So, colleagues and colleagues to finish, we are pleased that you have accepted the arguments to go in two readings, although you did not want to, we are pleased that a public debate will be held even though you did not want it and we look forward to this public debate and we hope that quality changes will be made to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1609	Thank you, too, fellow Sauch. We have ten replicas. The first replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1610	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Saucha I know that it seems to you that MOST is always in a hurry somewhere, that we want to make changes quickly because we think that Croatia no longer has time to wait, and you are used to working in a cabinet where everything was very slow and casual and I can understand that you do not understand it. And as for these arguments that you've forced us to, you didn't force us, but that's how you agreed to the cross after the election, we have the President of the Parliament, and I agree with you that this is a very important issue in which to include the profession and therefore goes into regular procedure, and we will include consultation with the interested public. As for what you said that people who are not recognizable do not have the opportunity to enter this High House, I must remind you, and if these three preferential votes are introduced, the party leaders will continue to draw up most of the lists and I think it is in their best interest to put young quality people who will then, as they do. colleague Bulj proved in the Croatian Assembly in just seven, eight months, prove and become recognizable. Here's your chance right now, you answer, you use what your party leader put you on the list, so I don't see any problems here that those who are capable of the party itself can benefit from, to which he counts to put them on the list and to get them into the Assembly. I think he'll have that chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1611	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1612	There's no need to patronize a fellow Grmo. Yeah, I was working in a system that was all just not slow. And you're in a hurry, and that doesn't bother us for a reason because we'd like to make it difficult. We are just as interested in improving the Republic of Croatia and you do not have the exclusive right to set yourself up as an arbiter of what is right and what is not. You are just as chosen as the political option in the Parliament, just as we are. Let us like you wish RH all the best. And as for speed, speed is not always necessarily a virtue. There are some things that need to be done as soon as possible, and it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and there are some laws that should simply be passed in one normal legal procedure. You have ministers in the government, so to people whose job it is to come up with these laws and enforce them. There is a Law on the right to access information that prescribes public debate. So we're just saying that it's not normal for one of these important laws to be passed in a way that someone wrote it, I don't know who wrote it. Whoever wrote it didn't write it right. Quick inside with a shovel and what you need and what you don't need. When you have a Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Administration and Minister of Justice, so for the sake of the Republic of Croatia, for the sake of all of us to slow down, we'll be better off. You don't have to break over your knee. And you don't always have to show us this aggressively patronizing and addictive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1613	Thank you. Another replica, dear colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1614	Thank you very much. Comrade Sauch, I have been following all the debates here for a few days now and on your part noticeably you are strongly opposed to these urgent procedures that have been proposed so in the meantime they have become some laws in two readings and it is extremely disturbing for you. I just wanted to remind you that you often forget what you were doing when you had the chance to form power and it wasn't that long ago, so. In 2011 you changed the first session in the next year from the appointment of the Government of 9 laws, 7 of which touched the structure of the Government itself and the form it will take after voting by emergency procedure and two laws you also passed in an emergency procedure when you resolved the issue of enforcement and public enforcement. And you did it without anyone getting your respect then and why you're doing it so fast, why it's so urgent and why we can't do it at some time after all that. You explained that you had to, that it was part of your promises that you wanted to keep to your own voters. And now such a procedure which is right now and different from the Most we have two readings, we'll probably be able to discuss it much better in the second, there's a possibility of proposing amendments. That's what we're talking about. You're treating MOST gentlemen as something illegal and not good. Let's not forget, I'm saying what was going on because if they were going fast, then you're going double, at least to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1615	Answer nothing? Then we move on to the third line. Dear Representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1616	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, when you lied, you said that probably, that's how I at least understood you, and it's not crucial to condition for candidates whether or not they're being punished because citizens aren't blind and deaf and that you think they wouldn't even vote for such candidates. So here I assure you that in the current situation when election units look like we do, the electoral lists also, probably citizens who, for example, saw me down at Mr. Klaric's in Bakr didn't even know who I was. I wanted to say that on the current lists, our voters recognize possibly a few names, and some of which are recognizable because they've been acting on state-level duty so that citizens can be recognized from the media and possibly recognize two or three other candidates who are eventually their fellow citizens or are from their county. So I don't see how we can then know which of the candidates on the list is being punished or not. And I think, in fact, it is very important that the law accurately prescribes the conditions and assumptions that someone who is on the list today, tomorrow, after the election can indeed assume such a responsible duty as to act as a parliamentary representative and that it is really our duty to seriously consider what are the punishable acts that would be in the catalogue and who will simply prevent those who are such punishment from being candidates in the elections. As for urgency or no urgency, I think. Thank you, I'm done. [[Intruder Jandroković: Excuse the weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1617	Please respond in time, it's okay now, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1618	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. I won't be rude, I won't be rude, I'll try to be constructive. And I'm not going to tell you that it's not, I mean you're HDZ, I guess, and I'm not going to say that I'm not saying that you're going to say that, I don't know, I don't know that there's a person on the HDZ list with the power of judgment. I don't think that's even possible for HDZ. But believe me, you're telling me that the problem is that someone didn't know you somewhere. We were all candidates, everyone in this room. And in a very competitive political game. Believe me, there was someone on the HDZ list in the 7th constituency who had some kind of criminal act, a verdict, to know that. We just can't pretend that, that's public data, the media is doing their social role. Each one of us, I won't say check, but look with interest. So I don't think it's possible in these days of this kind of information and informing the public that it actually happens to be someone with a criminal conviction. But look, somebody might have some kind of criminal process, but it's another pair of sleeves and I think it's one standard we shouldn't touch. So, as far as the punishment is concerned, I don't think that's the problem. And I think that citizens definitely have the right to choose someone, here's my personal belief, and even someone who sits in prison, the people are sovereign, has the right to choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1619	Thank you very much. Next replica, distinguished colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I somehow got the impression that in one part of your exposure you said that it was not our goal and task to protect the citizens. I think that's our priority. Even with such laws, it protects citizens from running for certain people who should not, at least in my opinion, end up on the lists. After your presentation, you mentioned another part of whether it means that some who have been punished for non-payments of salaries so that they too should not be run. I personally think that not if someone was punished, if they didn't pay their wages but if they didn't pay their wages, if there was that information, they shouldn't be allowed the same way as I don't think anyone should be running on a list of who has a debt to the state. Because it is amazing that people who run for parliament or local elections show up and have a debt to the institution. It's not normal for me. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm talking nonsense, but for me, that's the way it is. That's what we're discussing right now. We can now say it's not right on this side or on that side. I speak human. And if it's really something that can't be prevented, then I don't know, we have to change some other laws that we're going to stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1621	A reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of Sach.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1622	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, protecting the citizens from themselves. So you're actually advocating that we protect the citizens from themselves. I'm talking about democracy, so they're fundamental human, fundamental human rights is passive voting rights. Personally, it's not normal for me to know everything about all the candidates today and, for example, if you have a candidate who's known to be. that he committed some kind of crime. But if citizens still want to choose him, that's their democratic right. I'm not saying it's good, that it's normal, that it's nice to me, but people have to have the right to choose whoever they want and the worst of the worst, and psychopaths and narcissistic types and people of the suspicious past, we simply have the right to choose both deceivers and demagogues, everything. It's democracy. And it's up to us fellow political rivals to point out that someone's a thief, a criminal, that he's a demagogue, that he's selling fog and it's up to the citizens to choose. I think protecting the citizens from themselves seems simply underestimating to the citizens. Citizens know who they choose, right? I mean, they pick some people by not knowing how many times but at the head of the local self-government unit, but they pick them. It's not normal for me, they pick them. I mean, you know who I mean, I'm not going to say publicly that I'm not being sued. But that's right, that's democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1623	Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1624	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that, in principle, I fully agree with Tomislav Saucho about the second part of his presentation, namely the thesis that a powerful verdict should not be an obstacle to running in the Parliament. Let's say I, Mr. Ivan Pernar, can at some point invite people not to allow a court executive to enter an apartment or a house. It's a criminal offence if I'm not mistaken for 321 calls for resistance, jail time up to 3 years in prison, in case I make it very difficult or prevent the execution of a judicial verdict up to 5 years in prison. Let's say there's a video where I say people don't let them in the apartment you can take me to trial tomorrow and tell me if Pernar is guilty? His words condemn him and give me a sentence of six months in prison, or not seven unconditionally. With seven months of unconditional prison sentence, you're actually delegating me from the Parliament. Is that democracy? Is that democracy, ladies and gentlemen? It's not. What does that verdict mean to you? Here's another example, say, sir, what's your name? A shower? Here's Mr. Tušak, for example. He's a poor man, he's not in HDZ, he's got the power off. I hook him up to electricity, tomorrow I'm brought to court, he's being paid by the soles, and there's 500 kuna and a portion of kebabs saying that Pernar set you up with electricity. That's three years in prison again. And in this way you can actually violate the will of the sovereign people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1625	Since the time is up I'll have to unplug you. Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Sauch's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1626	Here I think a colleague, Mr. Vice President, is actually the only one who understands what I'm talking about. So the only clue is what I'm talking about. So, in this case, colleague Pernar is fighting for his own political beliefs. The rule of law must function, so if he has committed a crime he will be reported, his immunity will be removed and he will be convicted. Let's say he was sentenced to a month in prison and rehab deadlines, so rehab deadlines, that's the same one of the things that's been standing here for 3 years, 3 years he's been eliminated from the Parliament. Who are we to say that Mr. Pernar must not be a candidate? That he can't sit in this House? People pick him, they know what he's like, they know what he's like and they choose him again. I think that's the one value we need to protect, and if we decide to break that rule, we're going to border certain people from the candidacy that this has to be taken out by a certain criminal act by a certain crime. We can't put all the heads of the Penal Code that have their own... I mean, I don't feel like digging around here under the Penal Code right now to read you all the crimes that went in because of one of these inaccurate shovels piled up in a criminal catalogue. So again I repeat, not all crimes are equal. If Mr. Pernar, I'm going to caricate like this now, do something like that. You join yourself to do a terrorist act that I don't know maybe can happen, that fellow Pernar knows better, okay, but for this kind of thing, preventing an operation so it's his democratic right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1627	Thank you, counsel. The next person to report for the replica is representative Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1628	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's what's really nice to see when they agree, maybe you shouldn't replicate, but given Mr. and colleague Sauch that we're together in the Legislative Committee, and that we were in each other's sessions practically together. I just wouldn't agree if it was any kind of pressure, though. In an open debate at the Legislative Committee, a practical consensus has been reached on what is happening today, and this is debate, open issues, concrete proposals. In addition, there is an invitation to write the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Elections, etc. etc. First reading. So what you just said was press, pressure then as if we weren't in the same session. Also, it doesn't match the truth that your proposal is the only one not to go into emergency proceedings. We have practically all of us who have been on the board agreed to avoid an emergency procedure and to open up a broader debate on this matter. So it's not true about these replications or the opposite replicas in this discussion between the right, left, middle side however you want it to be. It is important here to say that in this question and in such proposals of the Law on Law Supplements, it is important not to approach the demagogue and the populist that we are witnessing a lot here today. So, I believe that only open debate and open proposals that will make concrete amendments will come to the conclusion of a sentence here, to come to democratisation and in this important issue, and it is particularly important for local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1629	Thank you, counsel. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1630	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, when I said pressure, I didn't think everyone there was beating you or I don't know, threatening you. We talked, but I said in my speech very clearly, so pressure with arguments. And after we've made arguments why this shouldn't go into an emergency procedure, and I think you'll agree that the original intensity was an emergency procedure. I think even if we look at the laws that came to our table the first day that it was the urgency that this law was going according to an emergency procedure. So only after certain pressures by the opposition's arguments changed attitude and this law, this important law was sent in two readings. If he hadn't, we would have discussed him this afternoon and voted on Friday with the power of your majority. So, I'm just talking about it, and the fact that we've had a very nice conversation on that board and we've come together to the conclusion that this shouldn't go through with an emergency procedure, I'm not denying it. That's why there's a pressure on the argument that you accepted. So there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. And I'm glad we agreed to do this in two readings. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1631	Thank you, counsel. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1632	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My dear colleague Saucha, you are speaking, and now you have told your colleague Šipić the pressure of the argument. You were never able to press the argument what you plotted by emergency procedure to resolve it and change your decision not to go. But I wanted to say something else, which is that you spent almost half of your time through the debate on Article 1 of this bill. In front of you, there is a former management minister, Mr Arsen Bauk, and for all of us who come from local administrations is very clear back, about 18 months, 20 from the Ministry of Administration has been given so much effort that all local heads of the municipal and mayors and mayors have been sent a memo with people who work in the city administration and have been punished for as long as 6 months, but it took time to rehabilitate. Many local administrations, many mayors and mayors had to fire a person in the city in my case imagine who was a city cemetery worker in Solin for six months being suspended, and his rehabilitation period had already passed in two and a half years. Now, if all the mayors and mayors in Croatia are back 18 months, such a warrant is reduced what the difference between that employee in the city cemetery or city official and imagine a parliamentary representative and one of the largest institutions, not one of the largest but largest institutions in the Republic of Croatia. So, it would be good if you and the club were consulting with a former minister of the administration who was just then for the officers, the staff of the city administrations shall make such a decision. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1633	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1634	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm about to say something that is likely to be extremely unpopular, and I know that you'll probably, someone will quote me to get negative publicity. But the difference is big. With all due respect, I don't think the MPs are above the others. I don't think we have the right to neither break laws nor be above laws, and I don't think we should be protected as white bears. However, I think we should apply much stricter standards. As a rule, I don't know, I think stricter standards usually apply. And the difference is that the MPs are elected. So, as antipathic as it sounds, it's annoying but they're a reflection of the will of the voters. I repeat, voters are sovereign. They're the ones who decide whether they want to be represented or not by all his faults and virtues. And these people you're talking about are reporting for a service competition, and I don't think there's a difference at a human level. Not at all. I think we need to be under a much bigger increase and much stricter standards. I'm just talking about the difference so this place here where we are is the highest home, it's the Croatian Parliament, we've been elected here. So, I don't want to seem to underestimate someone but it's not the same thing, so the people have the right to choose whoever they want in the Croatian Parliament. I was deliberately provoked today, deliberately talking about topics that are ticklish because I want a broad discussion to be opened about this. I think it's very important to be very careful about limiting passive voting rights because we could slip very quickly into being able to limit some lower standards, and then here we'll decide in this House who can run and who can't. And that's dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1635	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1636	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You've said a number of good things in this debate that should be really much and seriously considered, but when you look at it, I'd say part of it, which is when you say that MPs are the only ones who have the ability of a pay phone to take precedence over those who run for second term who didn't have a pay phone. That's maybe when one vote was possible to round up, one candidate voter. However, when there are three, there is an opportunity for two others who can get a pay phone. The bigger problem is the formation of units that are examples of the 9th electoral unit Lika, Sibenik-Kninska, Zadar and half of Split-Dalmatia County. And it's a more serious step. But this is just a direction to choose for a man, a voice for a man and for three men on the list is a big step. With the 380 thousand signatures we had for the referendum, it really was a big message and it really opens up a democratic process. But your question was directed towards the Most, because you were saying MOST doesn't believe when the government would fall, so you asked that question to us. The government will fall when it doesn't have a majority in the Parliament. It's the same thing that I'm asking you now who's going to be president of the SDP, so here's the answer. I mean the one who gets the most votes in the SDP. So you are a whole series of allegations, assaulting the Most because of this law where we invite you to make your proposals publicly and transparently and that we will respect them and, of course, discuss them until the second reading to make this law as good as possible for the development of the democracy of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1637	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1638	My colleague Bulj I greatly appreciate you and you know it we have spoken several times in the halls. You yourself have told me that in the first elections you have received a number of votes which is one four times smaller, I thought of you, and I am taking you as an example of how someone can work, work and pawn and tirelessly reporting in the Croatian Parliament, now I don't mean this underestimatingly, I think any word more or less in place can gain recognition. I was talking about it. I think it's very difficult for someone who comes from the side to gain that kind of visibility and that these are extremely strong starting positions. I think that this democratic process is going in that direction and that it will hardly be able to limit it, nor is it our goal to understand each other, is not to limit it. We just want this to be discussed and that it is a matter of preferential votes and enlargement to look at all possible options. When I talked about positive discrimination, therefore, this positive discrimination is exactly the way that some new people can promote in a different process through party bodies. So, I think it is also not negligible quality and that it is also not something that is completely unnecessary for both the future of Croatian politics and for parliamentaryism. Because otherwise, if we go in the direction I told you we have 14 preferential votes, few people in the Croatian Parliament will change. As a rule, those who have been here for a long time and who are recognizable will pass. Nothing more, just that. So let's talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1639	Thank you, counsel. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1640	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Saucha, your debate has prompted me to warn of another aspect of the changes this law makes. You mentioned and I agree with you completely so that all those who are young and relatively unknown to the public will find it harder to come to the Croatian Parliament. Especially if we take into account that in our work, we must always manage that the general interests are subordinated to our private or personal interests. Here, when I say general interests, I mean in the most positive sense, the general interests of the party because the party is ultimately going to the political market to achieve its programmes, to offer voters and to gain the trust to implement them. Now, we have the Local Elections Act. You see that you would be a member of a representative body, to run and be a candidate, you must have a place in the area. In order to be a candidate for the municipal chief, you must have a residence in the area for at least 6 months for the mayor or mayor. It is logical, of course, that I will not say that it is not logical that we today have such electoral law that for a representative in the Croatian Parliament that it is not an obligation. So the constituency can be a candidate who doesn't have a place of residence on that constituency. However, let us return to the beginning of the story, if the party assesses that it is good for her to place on the electoral unit those who are famous, let's say those who were ministers, who were representatives, who had already been affirmed and who had shown it by their work, then it can be very easy to conclude that those who did not find it difficult to come to the Croatian Parliament. But to conclude, I may have pointed out this remark a number of times today, I am certainly not against it being a preferential vote, but here is my colleague Bulj said earlier, and that is what I said and the first line needs to be seen first around election units. It's a bigger problem at this point than I think it's a preferential vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1641	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1642	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, I fully agree with you. You're actually saying that to get parallel, you see how bad partial solutions actually are. The partial solutions are always bad and we discussed this on the board when fellow Simic was saying that a comprehensive amendment would take place, so the amendments to the legislation. Election units, therefore, are an extremely sensitive issue. So what would happen, for example? that instead of these conditionalally speaking less serious as the colleague said the change, that it was going to end the electoral units, so that would be a scandal. Could you stop me as an opposition? Hardly. Would that be democratic? So if we're looking at a clean procedure, yeah. Would that be correct? No, I don't. Is that dangerous? Absolutely. There's a wide discussion to be opened. We haven't changed our legislation by election, let my colleague Bauk correct me, but I mean one ten years. I don't think that's bad. Election units are not overly logical, but they exist for a long, long period of years, and citizens have in some ways gotten used to it. I think they're relatively well balanced in relation to what fits one or the other or the third option, but there's still talk about it. But I agree with my colleague, when you have an electoral unit that weighs from the southern part of Zagreb all the way down to Novi Vinodolski, and you are, for example, born in Zagreb, which is a big city and so does not have that recognition effect, it is a little harder to become what is said to be recognizable on the road in Zagreb than in some smaller place, with all due respect so that someone does not realize that I underestimate smaller places. All I'm talking about is a political game. So in order for those three votes or five votes of the preferential to have some effect the electoral unit should be where and where more logical, and that is again a matter for a much wider, much larger debate and for a much bigger procedure in electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1643	Thank you, counsel. The next club to report for discussion is HSS. On their behalf, Ana-Marie Petin is the representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1644	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here's the esteemed fellow MPs and MPs. When we talk about this amendment of the law in the section in which the restrictions are defined, or which persons of the voter or party groups can run here on behalf of the HSS Club, I point out that every law that is being supplemented or upgraded, and that it goes in the direction that as close as possible to what we all want, and that is the satisfaction of our citizens offered to the candidates on the lists for the election, and therefore the satisfaction of the selected candidates in the Croatian Parliament because they choose those who think they are the best. But we also want to prevent the election from feeling somehow deceived when certain elected MPs start to go out or not act outside, and then voters of course feel cheated, with time of loss and will at all to go to the polls, and every time there are fewer voters at all, it's a message to all political parties, but also to all of us who do this job that we don't do something right. But we also believe that this way of proposing amendments to the law is not the best solution because the Constitution Committee itself has also warned about the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, but also called for a much wider debate with the interested public on the amendments to this part of the law. Similarly, when we talk about certain restrictions on the candidateship of persons, we must also mention the rights of certain elected representatives, and we can also mention elected representatives who have certain incompatible duties in the case of mayors or deputy mayors who can not at the same time be mayors and deputies in their midst and be representatives of the Croatian Parliament, while this is also made possible by mayors and mayors. So another example is that more seriously approach needs to be made to change the entire electoral system in a much more serious way and with a much wider discussion. What is particularly why we disagree in this bill and why the HSS Club cannot support this proposed law, which is the choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the introduction of three preferential votes. And we also disagree with the fact that the possibility of giving only one preferred vote does not fully respect the voter's will to give their vote to a certain candidate on the list he voted for because just one voter is one voter. So each of us only has one vote. With the introduction of three preferential votes, one vote is no longer one but suddenly turns or is worth three votes. The law also further says voters can only vote for one candidate list. So we put in an unequal position the political party and groups of citizens who run for their lists in the elections in the Croatian Parliament because we can give them only one vote and the voters must decide which list to give their trust, but then that one vote within that selected list is suddenly worth three votes and can give its vote to three candidates. What is more important in this proposal is that the introduction of three preferential votes in order to compromise the constitutional principle of equality, or democracy as a whole, in the following way. Most people try to vote for the person they know, and there's already been a lot of talk here at home. Most of the time it's a person from their midst, and most often it's, so the most preferential votes get from big cities and exactly the most candidates on the lists and we have those from big cities. Because these candidates are also recognizable, they come from a larger environment, they are more likely or accessible to the media, and they can be better presented. So they have a much greater chance of getting a preferential vote. On the other hand, candidates coming from smaller backgrounds where there is not such a concentration of the number of voters as in large cities in the beginning have a smaller chance of being seen by more citizens as their own. And they can only get a preferred vote in their midst which is much smaller by the number of voters. And take now that three times more times the number of votes from the big city center is multiplying how we candidates who come from much smaller backgrounds are going to pass. Since the electoral units cover the area of several counties or parts of them by the same principle, the most likely chance of being elected would be for candidates from a large county in the same constituency. In view of the fact that the Assembly has already called on several largely unrepresentative in terms of the number of representatives coming from small urban areas, for example, who have less than 10,000 inhabitants and those coming from large communities. We think the proposal is even harmful because the relationship would worsen further. Since such a proposal came from the members of the Most, I personally expected that the proposal would be much more courageous and that you would go even further than you said in the opening part, and such a proposal would be ours, which is that for the democratisation of political processes, we consider it best to keep one preferred vote but with the removal of the 10% preferred vote in relation to the list. We believe that this would be done next. The first order of candidates on the list would become irrelevant because there would be no impenetrable spots. It would then personalise the election campaign because, apart from party programmes and attitudes, the personality and communicability of each candidate, candidates with their views would have a better chance of being elected. In this way, the Parliament would have a much larger number of MPs with their views expressed and would surely not have to impose such penalties as are planned for not attending meetings. The parties in this way would not lose their authority because they would all like to be on that list no matter what number they are in. And certainly that the parties would then keep an eye on what people would put on lists and that these people would be those who worked and those who advocated the interests of their citizens, for the interests of their environment, would be people who had their views, who recognized in their environments because in this way the parties would also get and they would individually get as many votes as possible. It would also reduce the number of non-political MPs, but only party, technical staff, thus providing them with salaries. Otherwise, we probably call them regular handlifters. The number of candidates on lists with residence in other constituencies in some constituencies would also be reduced. And in this way they would get the highest quality people in the Croatian Parliament who would always express their views regardless of which side of the proposal came from. The Parliament would thus restore the dignity and trust of the citizens in us who are sitting here in the Croatian Parliament. In view of this, in this first reading, we will not support these three preferred votes, and if it continues to work on the additions of this law, it is certain that our position will be, that we will be obliged to lift that threshold of 10% of the preferred votes because we consider it to be much better, much fairer, much more high-quality choice of us MPs here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1645	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. The first to report for the replica is representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1646	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you have now gone from extreme to extreme. So you've been going through MOST's colleagues and you've made a proposal in two readings, and there's one proposal that I think is a step back, and it's worse than what we have now in their proposal, and that's the abolition of this threshold for preferred votes. If you look at the election results here is 2016, 2015, on the lists so-called The large parties or coalitions on the 8th or 7th list, which would thus enter Parliament, have less than 1% of the preferred votes. So based on the preferred votes would really not represent... There is, however, better to have a fuse to place a certain threshold, so it can be discussed about its reduction than completely abolished because then it would really just be a coincidence and nothing else would determine who would enter as 6, 7 or 5 on the list on which the bearer, or 1 on the party's list and the prime minister's candidate who would get the highest number of preferential votes and then what remains would be divided into several candidates, and someone would get 4%, 2%, 1.5, 0.2, so again, I think that, by removing that threshold, would have a worse effect than with all the criticisms that we have made, what were proposed by colleagues from MOST with 3 preferential votes and a 10% threshold. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in the choice between their proposal and your proposal, I'm closer to their proposal. In the choice between the current situation, I am closer to staying with the 10% threshold than to abolish any threshold, and that is why it serves us to find a medium-sized good solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1647	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1648	I didn't think I'd get big parties' support for this proposal, but it's about the voter still voting for the list. And now we have cases where someone on the list third or fourth entered the Croatian Parliament and received 300, 400, 500 or 600 votes while certain candidates had 2, and 3 thousand, 5 thousand, maybe 1 or 2% to cross the 10% threshold and did not enter the Croatian Parliament. So citizens would still vote for the list, thus calculating how many MPs can learn from that list at all, but the order within the list would be sorted by the number of votes won. We think that's fairest because then really voters who voted and gave their preferential vote would get what they voted for. Were there cases when they probably told you that I voted for a certain candidate, he got so many votes, in order of the third or fourth, and why didn't he come in? Because he didn't cross the 10% threshold. What a 10% threshold. I think it's a voter scam, and when we put in place a preferential vote that should have been taken care of immediately. So they still vote for the list and still the parties agree their candidates on the list. And how many votes do you get so many MPs on that list are coming in, only it agrees on the number of votes won by the preferential ones. I think that would be fairer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1649	Thank you, counsel. The next representative to report for the replica is Commissioner Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1650	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Petin, you have now mentioned several times electoral fraud, false promises, and even said that voters are already sick of going to elections for it. So I would like to ask you now how it is that the HSS went to the National Coalition in the elections, in 17.9 after the election you claimed that the HDZ party, Mr Plenkovic, has been headed by the HSS for 25 years, and yesterday you gave votes to Mr Plenkovic and HDZ. You voted for the government. So I'd like to ask you if that kind of behavior encourages voters to go to the polls, whether they'll have more confidence in you next time, and whether it represents that courage that we have to focus on, and which you've just invited us to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1651	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1652	Yeah, well, that's exactly what I'm talking about. I also received a number of votes on the list of the Patriot coalition that I was on at the 11th month and now I received a number of votes and I was 4 according to the winning votes on the National Coalition list. The voters probably recognized my work, not in the Parliament because this is my first term, but at least then in my midst where I live and deal with politics, I represent and defend their interests, and this is exactly what I was talking about. The Croatian Peasant Party has made certain political decisions that we are behind. You heard the explanation of our president, we supported Mr Plenkovic to agree with the government in order to stop these years of chaos that was in the Republic of Croatia and finally start doing something. This is the only reason why we gave Mr Plenkovic confidence to put together a government, to start working because Croatia has no more time to play games, circus and wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1653	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1654	Here's Tomislav replicating. You mentioned the voter's absence to the polls and the message they're sending. Democracy costs it is a fact and I think that a much stronger message would have been if they had gone to the polls, probably a picture of this House would have looked a little different. And since this democracy is costing, perhaps this law should consider sending you a message by not going out to pay for it. Some countries have that because the percentage of preferential votes, regardless of whether 10 or how you suggest otherwise, would be much stronger and stronger if more people went to the polls, achieved their right and from all policy activities that have been going on for many years and even at the top of the experience, I know that the most criticized are the ones who don't go to the polls and even say it sucks. And when they get hit by a personal problem, they're very critical. I think that since we're changing the law, we should think about that message that they're not sending, that they're not paying for their not coming out and paying even with that one diary in the Republic of Croatia that's 150 kuna. Perhaps it would force them to give that stronger, stronger message with their voice and then our Parliament would look completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1655	Thank you to Agent Tomislav Klaric. If anyone has a problem, then I'd just like to be warned about the accent, Tomislav, Tomislav. I'll try to stick to it. It's not a problem. It's a joke. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1656	Well, dear colleague Tomislav, I still can't agree with this proposal of yours. My point is that everyone has the right to go out and not go out to the elections, but also that by not going out in this election, voters have told us that what we're doing is wrong, that we're not serious, that we're getting busy, that we're just going to start working in their interest. Too much time has been lost in the last year, so here I am not for any punishment to be imposed, but to retain the right of citizens to come out equally or not to go to elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1657	Thank you. Next replicator, representative Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1658	Here's my dear colleague, but I'd like to ask you just one question. My professional interest is usually from the area of absurdity and niylism, and I can tell you that I have enjoyed these last days because I have experienced all possible formulations precisely which have been derivated from these areas. But they were all somehow held within the limits of the logic of possible worlds. You've given me the experience and logic of impossible worlds today because you're starting from the position of defense of democracy, defense of partocracy. So, it's clear to me that there is no democracy without partying, no party life. I realize there's a possibility that partothocracy exists without democracy, and that's what I seem to have seen in your speech. You're talking about a break, you're talking about the president as if it were some kind of aristocratic-monarchist model. And now I'm curious, if we include more democracy in this double, what kind of legality you'd like to introduce, which is the relationship, the dialectic between party life, democracy and some desirable law, because I haven't been able to figure it out at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1659	The answer to Ana Maria Petin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1660	Well, this is just as much as I'm a respected colleague now I don't understand you at all. You're coming from the Most if I'm not mistaken. You were in the same coalition with HDZ a year ago, and you were fighting, and you were tearing yourself down, and you were verifying your signatures, so you said you wouldn't go into coalition with anyone anymore. So now you're back in the coalition with HDZ, so you swear it'll all be good. So you probably know better then what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1661	Thank you. The next rep representative is MP Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1662	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's just before the replica, don't get fixed. It's nice to hear Neretva speak to you the same way as your colleagues Bauku Jadran or my colleagues Buljo Cetina or the Danube menu in the far line. That's all right. I just wanted to tell my colleagues, at the end of the day if we can call it the electivity of the individual we can now with preferential votes and measure it is some result of your individual, or individual charisma of each of us or our ability to some kind, to build our own political capital and transfer it to voters. It is also another part of the result that we are able to do within our parties, i.e. because politics is team sport, they don't have to be parties, they can be lists but that we play team games in politics and that we actually respect each other. So in the context of your remarks on people from smaller places, I'd just like to add that it should actually be solved within the very group of people running. So, if we've already changed the system in such a way that we've introduced a preferential vote it actually means that we want to turn at least one part more towards an individual approach, so each of us in the electorate is doing more work and that in some ways our ability to be chosen on our work is more relaxing. Because a while ago, it would not have been possible in Croatia for such success to experience neither the Most nor the Living Wall, but it was actually more of a major party. So I think what you're talking about makes sense part of it, but it actually points to more attention being paid to this law and perhaps taking into account all the ways that all the other consequences can still have and how we can simply adapt to what we want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1663	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1664	The answer to the replica, so I agree with you, that's what I said in my opening speech to make these changes, but to include other changes, so to make a complete amendment to the Election Law and certainly to approach it much more seriously and to include it in the debate and the general public. Because believe that they will surely comment in the direction that I am. Because they just don't get it. They understand that 10% threshold, but they don't understand why it was introduced. That's what this is about. So I agree with you that we should certainly have a wider discussion with both professional and public.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1665	Thank you. And the last representative to come forward is Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1666	Dear fellow Members, I must also admit that I have remained a little confused after hearing your debate until the end because you started with your views and defending your position not to support the introduction of three preferential votes with arguments which I made the same for the speaker at the beginning that these are arguments which are not why we are not going into more than three preferential votes. And then you mentioned that simply candidates who come from smaller places will be in trouble compared to those who come from larger places, and then what election units look like to us today and it is not up to the end suitable for the introduction of a complete system of preferential votes. And then, in the end, you said that you're in favour of removing the 10% threshold. And now all of these arguments that you're telling me before that and the further lifting of the 10% threshold come to precede the candidates from the big cities, are lag behind the candidates from the smaller cities. It seems to me that you have been saying all of this from the position of a party that truly enjoys one or two percent of the voter's trust, which enters parliament only on the basis of pre-election coalitions. And then that's how you're supposed to explain to us to the end that you actually want to point your 2% towards one person. So I finally came to such a conclusion that it motivates you, so I'd like you to explain it a little bit. And I only have two sentences to look back on this need for HSS to bring stability into the Croatian political scene. This is very interesting to me when a party coming out of one coalition enters another, and with it enters parliament through that coalition and then eventually exits the coalition and supports the first. If it's a guarantee of stability, then we're in a terrible problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1667	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1668	I thank my colleague Simic. So when I was talking about candidates from smaller places having less chance of getting preferential votes, that's exactly why they're taking down that 10% threshold. Is it when you look at a few lists and you sort out by the number of preferential votes you have received and you yourself said that only 6 candidates passed at 11 months through preferential votes that would not go in the straight way, and 11 in these elections, and only because 14% of voters went out less. Now, I don't know if you've been counting and watching how many candidates on the list either got 8 or 9%, so they lacked a few votes to get across that 10% famous threshold. And among them there must be a candidate from smaller backgrounds. So it is a limiting factor, and here we believe that by removing this precisely 10% threshold to make it more possible for candidates from smaller environments, or that the equal opportunity would be for all candidates on the list to get a number of preferential votes and thus enter the Croatian Parliament. And as for the Croatian Peasant Party, I've all responded to your colleagues from MOST, so I don't like to repeat myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1669	Thank you. The next club to report for participation in the debate is HDZ and, on their behalf, club representative Marko Šimic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1670	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. It is really easy to read the conclusion of the intention and the aim of the proposed reform from the opening presentation. I hope that we are all present in this assembly aware of the perception of the public regarding the institutions of the state government and so are these institutions of the Croatian Parliament. In the Club of HDZ Representatives, we believe that this law with the proposed measures should contribute to increasing the dignity and reputation of the Croatian Parliament as well as all of us MPs, but we must not lose the bond with reality and reality. In our discussions, we often mention the departure of young people from the Republic of Croatia. We need to know that young people are not just leaving because of the lack of employment, because of higher wages, better working conditions or better living standards. The list of reasons for leaving young people from Croatia has quite high positions of reasons such as trust in the rule of law and the institution of state authorities that we also often mention here. Our goal in the work of this Parliament, with the establishment of a stable, sustainable and realistic legislative framework, should also be to restore that trust to our people, citizens, observed not only from the voter position. In this matter, we can act directly today in a way that changes the criteria and way of running, or people who represent us in the institutions of the state authorities. I must remind myself that the Club of HDZ Representatives in the Croatian Parliament has proposed similar changes in earlier times and mandates or meetings of the Croatian Parliament. So our decision to support this proposal speaks of the consistency of politics in this House. As already stated earlier on this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the three parliamentary committees discussed this and submitted to the Croatian Assembly the reports with their conclusions, of which it is important to stress that the conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system is entrusted to the Proposer until the final proposal of the law to carry out consultations with the interested public in accordance with the Law on the right to access information and the Thematic Session on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. As regards the introduction of three preferential votes or giving voters the opportunity to prefer three candidates from the list of so far, only one candidate was able to prefer. And we were looking at the introduction of the possibility of a preferred vote with a high dose of caution and skepticism. Today, with certainty and many examples of electoral practice, we can argue that the preferential vote has led to greater consideration of the voter's will. In this way, democracy and objectivity of the system are increased and additional security has been given to voter groups that their interests and attitudes will be presented with dignity in the Croatian Parliament. We believe that in this part of the bill's proposal, as well as the whole bill's proposal, concrete and clear consequences, of course, will take place through the the thematic session and consultation with the interested public, leading to such a new proposed system of elections. Following all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this bill and refer it to further procedures and other readings so that representatives clubs and individuals of course can submit their amendments and, if necessary, amend and supplement such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1671	Thank you. The first representative to report for the replica is the representative of Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1672	Here's a chance to hear that HDZ will support the sharing of three preferential votes. Otherwise, they also have one special privilege that one person can vote for three persons or that one can vote for more persons. Namely, there are a million voters who do not exist on the voter lists, and then one person can vote for 100 voters in such a way. This is already being discussed in the Croatian public jokes, if you want to see your late relatives then make sure you come to the polls. I would suggest, in any case, to the legislator that this issue is very simple, given that no administration ministry has resolved it so far, and that is to introduce a legislative proposal or a regulation, however, that the voter must be signed at the polls and that we will finally know how many real voters we have in the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1673	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1674	Dear colleagues from the Living Wall. I'm really surprised sometimes by the attitudes that have been expressed in this... The only option, I apologize if that's how I insulted you, but I didn't really have any intention. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. I just wanted to warn the voting system that neither to us HDZ members nor to members of any other political party which I really do not know and could be reconciled to make any representatives of any party more than one vote in the elections. As far as the electoral system is concerned, we haven't even established an APIS agency that monitors the elections, nor have we been able to appoint state election committees through all election processes. So I wouldn't turn the blame on any or other political option, I wouldn't deal with the big politicization of the election. The election is a game where everyone shows what they have, what they will do in the upcoming term of office and on this basis gets voter confidence. I do not dispute the trust of the voters you have won, and I also ask you not to challenge or insult the HDZ voters who have given us the confidence to represent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1675	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Branimir Glavas. No, I don't. After that, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1676	Thank you very much. My colleague, thank you for supporting this proposal and of course we will see everything through the debate. However, for several years, 380 thousand citizens have also signed a referendum to elect MPs by name and last name, and that really big political options have not given their pain and otherwise, in spite of that, 380 thousand signatures have been collected. It was at the time when Minister Arsen Bauk was, if I'm the right number, he can hit me later if he has a chance and deny me. This is very important is this new democratic period and this is a big step. However, we still have problems after what we have to do is that one term is not the same, not a single term is the same with its weight. So for example, in the 9th and 10th constituency each of these constituencies has 393 thousand voters indicatively, while in the 4th constituency we have 299 thousand voters, so 91 thousand voters have more constituencies than the other. So it's not the same... one term. We have too much work to do in front of us to unify and develop democracy to be the same voters and, of course, very important that the deceased do not circle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1677	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1678	Dear colleague Bulj, I am aware of the real implementation and methodologies and therefore the implementation of the elections in the Republic of Croatia. I am aware of all the problems we face in the conduct of the elections and I am aware of the need to amend the electoral law. The first change that you have proposed is today on our benches in the Croatian Parliament. We agree that the electoral law should be amended, and we agree that these proposed amendments are relatively good. I said in my statement that through the public debate and the thematic session we would crystallise the real proposals for amendments and additions to this law and hopefully the electoral laws will be changed in some broad scope. But today, we can only discuss what you have proposed as a motion for change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1679	Thank you. The next club to report for participation in the debate is the Living Wall of the Alphabets representative Ivan Pernar. I apologize because I miss him, I know there's one more word but it wasn't intentional.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1680	Ladies and gentlemen, it is once again an extraordinary honor to address you all. Today is the subject of Election Law. It is very interesting that in Croatia, for example, a person who has been sentenced to punishment for an unconditional duration of more than six months, if its execution is stopped or its execution is under way, cannot run to the Parliament, even if that moment is the moment when the representative is left without his mandate. So the voters voted, they decided to back someone up, and then the court came, and he sentenced that person to, like, seven months in prison, and that person's moving from the pay phone. So, let's say you have a situation where I'm running "Resistance, Resistance" on your Twitter call for resistance if I'm not mistaken for Article 321. The penal code, three years in prison, is an unconditional punishment, and if it makes it difficult to carry out a judicial sentence, it's up to five years in prison. And now let's say Mr. Behind me Bozo Petrov says, listen to me this Pernar irritates me I can't think of him, falls into my word all the time, guys let's go process him. And we come to a situation where the chairman, and yet I think in theory there is a trio of authorities, but we all know that MOST holds both the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs and the Legislative Authority, meaning the President of the Parliament, means the three-division of the legislative power, means the President of the Parliament, means the trio of power exists only in the theory. And in this way any person who is insecure or insecure can be expelled from the political race at that moment. Also keep in mind the following. Let's say Pernar broke the law, let's all agree, but we do have a situation where one HDZ representative Cobankovic took actually 14 million kunas out and just said in court, so Ivo Sanader told me and got a ticket to peel potatoes. If Ivan Pernar had taken 14 million kunas and told me, I don't know, Sincic told me to get me out, the question is ladies and gentlemen, would I get a ticket to swallow potatoes? That's a serious question. And why am I saying that? Because there is a situation where people have used their positions and powers but not in bad intentions or... Recently, there was a case in Slavonia where the HDSSB chief, if I'm not mistaken, was renting land to farmers who had a tax debt and the condition for the country to win was that the tax debt was gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he knew that if these peasants had nothing to deal with that they were in trouble, he knew they had a debt and that the only way that he was actually going to meet them is if he actually said to get over it, close your eyes and he did it not selectively. So he wasn't just giving the HDSSBs land, giving it to HDZ and the SDPs, if he was a member of the Living Wall, then he gave it to him and it was blocked. And now what's going on? This man, for example, is sentenced to a sentence of no longer than six months, and at the same time he loses the head of the municipality's mandate, he can no longer run. Ladies and gentlemen, is that democracy? As far as the charges are concerned, you must be aware that there is a reason why, for example, Milan Bandic is not being processed. It's a man who has no idea how many hundreds of criminal charges, there are files with evidence, but everything that goes against him taps in the dark. While some other people, for example, are being processed in a picturesque way at the speed of light. Why am I pointing that out? Because Milan Bandic is in such a combination that this law provides for, and that is that if someone dares for more than 6 months, they will automatically lose their mandate. You can tell him, dear Milan, you will raise your hand on us both in the Assembly and in the City Assembly you will do whatever we say, you will dance, you will be a doll at the end, if not, Mr Bandic you said that the official car of the city of Zagreb should be taken by a sick woman to treatment in Vienna. Is this abuse of position and authority? It is. But would the voters of Mr. Bandic be punished by taking office for it? I'm sure he wouldn't. Even if he said yes, it's true, I took her. And what can happen? You sentence him to over 6 months in prison, he loses the automatic status of mayor of the city of Zagreb, can no longer run in the re-elections that happen soon after that because he is yet to be executed as long as he can wait 100 years in this system for a man to come to execution. In other words, you've turned people into hostages. And why am I saying that? Because this instrument of confiscation of mandates, i.e. the ban on running in the future, is intended only to be used against politically inadequate people. So while Jadranka Kosor was with Ivo Sanader, your colleague recently, recently, when he with dirty money funded her campaign, she didn't report him and say, listen, Sanader funded with dirty money to me, not she waited another year. At one point when she had a fight with him, she said look at this man he was pulling money to finance the campaign, etc., although her own campaign was funded. And Ivo Sanader is in one mounted procedure, I say mounted because if everything that the witnesses were saying was true, it would have turned out that he wasn't doing the role of prime minister at all, but he was always talking about someone taking something, I don't know, to steal something or so on. So that would have turned out to be what he was doing the whole time. The other thing is, let's say the criteria, let's say rape here, tomorrow, look, I've lived through all the possible torture by the media, tomorrow can some girl say Pernar raped me. I say no, in the morning list her confession. Here it is, he's a monster, this, what, showing up five witnesses saying that, we saw it, we were witnesses, for example. I can say that it's a politically mounted process, I can say that witnesses lie. Who will trust me, ladies and gentlemen, have all the media. You sentence me to more than six months in prison, I'm out of a mandate. And why am I saying it's important? In Great Britain, there was a Bobbia case... He was a Catholic from Northern Ireland and he was charged with terrorism even though he wasn't convicted of eight years in prison, he owned a gun. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what happened? The community knew that his process was mounted and he went to the polls as a candidate from prison, he ran the campaign from prison and he was elected from prison to the British parliament. And he was saying I'm politically imprisoned, I'm not a criminal. And he refused to wear a prison uniform and strike for hunger. Ladies and gentlemen, this man died in prison when he was 27 years old. He was a political prisoner. And in Tehran where the British Embassy of Iran named it the street where the entrance was and then the English invented the entrance to the other road because the edge building just didn't have to be Bobbie's address... Street. [[You don't understand a word.]] What I'm trying to say to you ladies and gentlemen is, if it's going to be a political trial, it's okay because look, look at Karamark, so we all know the HDZ ladies and gentlemen that he's pissed into all kinds of crime. Let's not be naive. Let's not be naive. Because he ran the police and the Secret Service. He knows everything about each and every one of us. And what can happen? The minute you say Karamarko, you're this, you're what Karamarko would say. Look what it is, i.e. I'd still be handing out papers on all of you. [[I'm sorry, Mr. President, but if you'll excuse me, my colleague, please.]] And why am I telling you this? I don't mind the law to have parliamentary deputies answer for some crime they commit even at a set trial. Because I repeat, we are being tried selectively, and we are being tried selectively by ladies and gentlemen. But allow the people you condemn in such processes to go to elections. What happened to Branimir Glavas? This is a very serious thing. That man had a mounted process, one day, I watched his speech; Ivo Sanader said today Branimir Glavas no longer exists. And that moment, witnesses and evidence began to be sought. Be careful which absurd, in normal crime, witnesses and evidence first appear and then go with the processing. In Branimir Glavas' case first came the decision on the procession and then the witnesses and the evidence that they were, part of those witnesses was bought, it was not disputed, so it was proven at the hearing, they were given whatever benefits in prison, etc. And all they had to say was the same thing as your colleagues at Evey Sanader's trial. Branimir Glavas is responsible for everything. Branimir Glavas gave me a piece of paper, Branimir Glavas told me. And what happened? If the Supreme Court hadn't annulled his verdict recently, isn't it in seven months, Mr. Glavas? Mr. Glavas couldn't run for Parliament today and couldn't sit here today. Would the people who voted for Glavas vote for him despite that verdict? They would, even if the verdict hadn't fallen because they knew the background of that whole trial or judgment. What I'm saying is that no one can be above the sovereign will of the voters and you can't determine by means of a judiciary who can run and who can't. Because Joseph Broz Tito was convicted, you wouldn't let him go to the election. You're laughing with Joseph Broz Tito, gentlemen of HDZ, and even the blessed Aloysia Stepenica could not run under your law. Yes, gentlemen and ladies? I don't know how long he's been convicted but I'm sure it's been more than six months. He couldn't make the election. It's not his fault who asks you, my old man, it's your fault or not. In other words, I believe that the current law is radical and that it actually allows for the political elimination of all non-insistant people. Someone's gonna say, "I'm sorry." Mr. Saucha said from SDP to me if someone's a rapist in prison, or a murderer in prison, why shouldn't he run? He won't get out of jail by running he'll continue to serve his sentence. If voters want him elected, that's their business. Also, someone will say, you'll say as is so he's an immoral person, he wouldn't be right. I've again cited an example of excavation, of electricity ingestion. That the HDZ lady, that she wasn't in HDZ, that she wasn't a parliamentary representative, that she was a single mother with three children, and that there was no electricity to pay for, and that I hooked up her electricity, that's another prison sentence if I didn't cheat up to 5 years in prison or 3 years in prison. I could be convicted of such a crime, ladies and gentlemen. And would my voters be convicted of illegal electricity insertion if they still voted for me? Yes or no? Probably would. If I was convicted of calling for resistance to three years in prison, would they still vote for me the next day? Yes, but what's going on? If you confirm a false statement with a public notary that e.g. You will not co-ordinate with the HDZ gentlemen before the election, and after the election, you will not be punished by the court because you can write whatever you want with the public notary and verify it with your signature. Yes, and the question is, would these same voters vote in the same way that they knew it would happen? What I'm saying is that we can't or can't have a judicial system that's clearly biased. Let us not fool ourselves in Croatia, political or judicial proceedings are being conducted exclusively against unspeakable people. God of Calmeta 0 points, his trial doesn't begin, there are witnesses and evidence. You have a further example, Nadan Vidosevic, to him gentlemen dear, his trial has not yet begun and the policeman who showed the pictures from his den has already been convicted. Is that gentlemen and ladies, is that an independent judiciary? Why hasn't some people been tried for years, and some have been persecuted for marginal matters? I repeat, it's a circus, a circus that's due to the fact that the rule of law doesn't exist with us, and the threat of taking office, etc. is used for blackmail purposes. And because of these blackmails, Milan Bandic was turned into a doll in the end. And if one day the question arises whether Milan Bandic has even the right to run, I will be the first to stand up for his right because he is the right for everyone to choose and be chosen. You are taking this law to constitutional law, constitutional law and toppling democracy under cover to fight for democracy by introducing 3 preferential votes, that 3 preferential votes but you are the ones who determine who will be the candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1681	Thank you, Agent Pernar. I would just have to say briefly that the highlight of this whole exposure is a possible politically mounted process. I think we should have a little more faith, but what I'd like to stress, I'd like to pray that, I listened neatly to everything, at the very beginning you insinuate a certain relationship, probably to make your speech more interesting. The ministries belong to the state of not the parties and I would ask you to refrain from such comments. The rest I recognize as your possible opinion. The first person to report for the replica is representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1682	Thank you, Mr. President. I checked in somewhere at the beginning of your speech, and then you said a lot of other things that would be more worth replicating to you. But it's not exactly a constitutional right to run. It can be limited. Article 30 provides that criminal convictions for serious and particularly unfair offences may, in accordance with the law, result in losses acquired or prohibition of acquisition for a certain period of time of certain rights to carry out certain tasks if it requires the protection of the legal order. And we, in the applicable law, have some limitations. What you and I absolutely agree is that what is put into this bill is too great and disproportionate a limit that can indeed lead to these dangers that you have said in some situations. And I'd rather be at the point where it's not a problem if someone was convicted than if the citizens chose someone who was convicted, but that's their right, too. And the more my position is that these provisions are in the law, especially in the Law on Local Elections, only because of one person I can't win the election, so they want to eliminate it from the election game.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1683	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1684	Gentlemen, Mr. Bauk is right. The constitution says that under certain exceptional circumstances you cannot. But here, we had a Branimir Glavas case. If the Supreme Court hadn't dropped the verdict that was the apparent consequence of the mounted procedure, this man couldn't sit with us here today. The second thing is that Milan Bandic can't win the election, I can't beat him. I'd like to beat him first. I'd like to be the first to go as mayor, to be elected by the citizens and say here's the Pernar who beat Milan Bandic. But if I'll ever go against him it'll be a fair match, it'll be a game where the voter votes will be counted, not a game where a certain structure on the left can, either by a chemical or a telephone call, say tomorrow, start the trial against Milan Bandic, put him in jail. What's that? Get him out of here! As Sanader used to say today, Glavas no longer exists, so Plenkovic can say tomorrow from today Bandic no longer exists. It can't be politics, be careful what absurd. The political party in power cannot decide who will be in parliament or will not be in parliament, or who will run from the opposition in the elections or not. Because keep in mind the gentlemen of HDZ and the gentlemen of the Most. All the measures you use today you against your political opposition tomorrow may be used against you, tomorrow someone may say a man has cheated on travel expenses for 500 kuna. He has abused the position and authority, the leprosy thing, you can be convicted of marginal matters, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1685	Thank you, Agent Pernar. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1686	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's my line I'm going to use in the direction Mr. Pernar mentioned by the HDSSB and the HDSSB's case. It is about the mayor of Djakov city, Mr. Vinkovic, who is true to allow the country to be assigned to individual people in the area of djakovina without these people having fulfilled all their financial obligations to the budget of the city of Đakov. It was a negligible financial amount where these people gave all written guarantees and signatures by taking their commitments to implement their financial commitments to the city of Djakov as soon as possible. Afterwards, the State Attorney's Office, which characterised this as a criminal offence and initiated a criminal complaint, brought the indictment against Mr Vinkovic. So it's really a symbolic case of law violations, it's a fact of law violations but a negligible financial value where it's possible to put a man in a situation after such a procedure so he can't run in the next local elections. And in this frequent mention of me and my case in your presentation, I'm going to use the individual hearing for ten minutes where I'm going to explain my case. So, it's partly true what you said but partly and it doesn't stand what you said, so I'll explain it to the representatives and the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1687	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1688	I'd like to say the next case. Here's the gentlemen from HDZ. This is a frigid thing. A confirmed indictment against an officer who Josephi Rimac obtained an apartment. Here's the situation in the case of an mounted process. Sometimes a person who's a misdemeanor is convicted, and sometimes a clerk. But Mr. Petrov, if you refuse me and what do I do? [[Adversity President: A colleague, should be a reply to a replica from the MP himself.]] Here. Intruder president: Excuse me. [[The incursion president: No, no. You have to wait. Here, I'll sit down. ...]] Don't be mad. So you must respect the Rules of Procedure at the moment when.... Well, you can't tell me what I'm gonna say, Mr. Petrov, so this is...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1689	The moment you have a reply to the replica, you respond to what the representative used and spoke in the replica itself. Next agent, I'm trying to make it so as long as I'm here. The next representative to report for the replica is Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1690	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Pernar, in response to my replica, feel free to use the sources of information if you have any ideas. I think it is useful for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because at that point you can make information available sometimes and why not use modern technologies to present it. What you said in your presentation is a little intense but it seems terrifying that someone can play this way and decide where they will start and where they will not start the process in the event of political elimination or the desire to eliminate someone politically. We have mayors in the Republic of Croatia today who have admitted to committing a crime. Eight, nine years ago, they emptied the Ministry of the Interior's register and transferred it to a party quota. And they're still mayors, and there's a charge against them, and the trial hasn't begun. But that's why in another town in six months the lady who recorded it, I'm going to tell you my personal position, where a local politician, the mayor of that town then wanted to persuade the lady to vote for him in the city council, the process started in six months and the verdict was passed and the man lost in the election. Now you can see... He's fine in prison because the court ruled that way. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't get into it, the court is the one who judges on behalf of the state and what happened in court is true and I respect it. But look at the disproportionateness, something in six months -- one political party, some eight years, and the man himself said he offered Sanader as the first one from his ministry, he came to the presidency and said here I am, Mr. President, already emptying 10 million kunas. And nothing's happening. And he's still the mayor. And HDZ doesn't mind. Not only Calmeta, but so does he. And on the other hand, you're right, it's not about Bandic here, it's about one of the southern most beautiful, one of the most beautiful cities in the Republic where the Game of Thrones was recorded. I can't beat them there, and I can't beat him there, and this is how they want to eliminate him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1691	Before I respond to the replica, and I will give it, I would just ask Mr. Maras that this attempt to take advantage of all possible information can be used at the moment of what you said and if we're going to play like that then I can say feel free to use it by all the MPs and everything you know, everything that you have available to you right now on the entire planet so you can talk. Then it doesn't make any sense that we have a reply to the replica, but we only have replication. I'd like an agent to stick to the very context of the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1692	I'd like to say the next topic we're talking about is quite broad, there's no point in this radical narrowing down because otherwise you can't say the point, and the point is essentially. So sometimes he's turning off the subject to explain the point that's related to the subject. Please, Mr. Petrov, I have the width. Since my grandfather was a representative at the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, he was a doctor of law. Please don't narrow me down, my mom's a doctor of medicine, my dad's a construction engineer. Please have respect for me and allow me to speak. It's about that Mrs. Josepha Rimac, she, the defendants against her, is missing, and it's clear that she wasn't an official of the city's administration on her own to give away the city's apartment. Well, it would take a man's mind to believe that. However, Mrs. Rimac is not tried, and that lady is tried. I'll say again if she did, even if it was Mrs. Roman from Knin's fault, even if she persuaded the clerk to give her the city's apartment it's correct to judge her. But it is not correct to take away her mandate if the people of Knin want to vote for it despite it. Because otherwise we don't get into democracy. According to your law, Adolf Hitler was prepared in Germany in '33. could all the members of the Reichstag who were opposition tell him either you will raise your hands for me or we will lead the processes where we will condemn each of you to a sentence of more than six months. Eliminate a complete set of Reichstags that bothers him. This is ladies and gentlemen a dangerous blow to democracy. Once again, I appeal that the right of people or citizens of the Republic of Croatia must not be limited in such a way that they can choose or be elected. And I thank my colleagues, Maras and colleagues from the SDP, for stopping in this debate with me, and they didn't actually stand by me, but they sided with the simple truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1693	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1694	Thank you, Chairman. Therefore, according to Article 232. The Rules of Procedure of the Chairman may warn a representative if he does not stick to the subject of the agenda. Representative Pernar held on to agenda topics he is namely selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament. He does not necessarily have to stick to what an advocate said in the replica, he adheres to the subject of the agenda, and he does not deserve to be warned by you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1695	So, I would ask only to re-examine the Rules of Procedure. The moment the reply to the replica is used is in the context of the replica itself. Otherwise, stories could not be directed at all, not by the chairman, but by the very subject of the debate at agenda points. Before I give another line to my colleague Pernar, I have no intention of directing a personal story. That is why there is a Rules of Procedure and there is a way in which you have a certain time that you can use. You had 10 minutes in front of you that you could use to say everything that mattered. And in my opinion, it doesn't matter who the parent is and who anyone had in the history of ancestors. What is important is what you bring out here today and the way you behave in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. You know there's a break, an exposure after a break. Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1696	The Honorable President is impossible not to love Mr. Pernar because she really believes what he's saying. That's good. But at the same time, I'd ask him just one quick question, did he ever hear the word lighting, lustration? She's not selective, she's looking at the entire width. And first I'd like to if he loses his job we can do this right now... I'll be his agent stand up coming up right now. [[You don't understand.]] But at the same time why are we where we are? Because in the former system, I know it is now an election law issue, but collective memory has been completely erased, and since every... knows who it is... and no Croats have heard of Stipe Javor etc. Ivo Machine, Andrija Conc, we are where we are. And at the same time as we look at some heads connected with one eye of the new princes of the shivering has anyone heard of these other heads it's the tip of an ice dream that buys hotels. They have hotels in Indonesia, hotels in Dubrovnik, hotels in London, shipyards, and where all these heads are. And I remember the good of a lady when Milan Bandic was incarcerated and she came to the prison and she talked, she says about you stealing, but you gave us a little. We remember that, Comrade Tito, you gave us a little too. And who is Mr. Bajić that head... is blown up by these heads, and where this robbery is until 1990 when you have only 160 thousand actually 160 mass graves around Zagreb where old Zagreb disappeared, what about our neighbor Bijenička 21 Mr. Svenšak the dentist whom they killed, forgive the expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1697	I'd just like to ask you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1698	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1699	I'd just ask you to stick to the subject. I apologize... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1700	And there's still a theme about who took my passport, and I'd say we have Disneyland,... today we have a fatland. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1701	Time and damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1702	Mr. President. I apologize or Article 232. by holding the subject. I think with all due respect, you and your colleague Pernar have taken the floor for not holding the subject, I defend the principle as always. Mr. Glasovic is moving away from the topic every time. This definitely had nothing to do with the subject. I'm asking you to treat everyone equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1703	I just warned my colleague Sauch. If you think I didn't have the possibility of a 24-hour application. I warned him. The moment I notice it, I will warn everyone absolutely, and of course I will respect the remarks that you warn me if he doesn't. In this case, I did it. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1704	Mr. Glasnović thank you for your replica and I think that your replica is correct and that you have the right for two minutes of it and to say what you think is important for the subject, not what one of us thinks. But I'd like to tell you this, Mr. Glasnović, as much as you may not have mentioned in your presentation that it was important, for example. Which Mr. Chairman has said who he is to whom, I must say that in the history of our civilization, only twice has been assassinated in the National Assembly. For the first time in the Roman Senate when Brutus was involved in a conspiracy and then stabbed with a knife by a Caesar then, and the second time he was shot at the heart of my father Ivan Pernar because he was telling the truth. So, a full-on climber shot him in the heart first, and only then did he shoot all the other hsss representatives. And I'm afraid the truth I'm saying here may not kill me, but there's no need for that. You can take me to trial, you can sentence me for more than six months unconditionally and I ladies and gentlemen can no longer argue with you here, semi-limize. You'll say smile whatever you tell the truth, whatever. So I appeal not to abuse this law for the elimination of political opponents, and I am convinced that since I am looking at the previous past or history is a teacher of the future, experience teaches us that this law that you are planning for MOST gentlemen is about to go that way. I call on you to beat Mr. Jamba in the election, I take your hat off ok, but that you beat him in a way that you kicked him out of the election race through some verdict, which I believe would be incorrect or contrary to the basic sense of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1705	Thank you, Agent Pernar. And I just want to comment briefly, I think the most important thing for every man is that he eats clean, and I totally agree that political persecution shouldn't be. Political persecution can only be in case the person is clean, and in the end it happens to her. The next representative to report for the replica is Andrija Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1706	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. So here are the materials we got, so first I see that the MOST Club is proposing this bill, the Most Independent Lists, then the first chapter says the constitutional basis for the adoption of the proposed law contained in the provision of the article and that Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So that's if we're reading materials. Well, if I didn't read it to you right now, you probably read a lot of it. I agree with you that any fellow Peranar who has sinned should be convicted, absolutely. And I'd always stand up for you not to be convicted if there was no reason. Is this convenient when you answer and speak in the Croatian Parliament, but it is a question of what we do in this way from the Croatian Parliament. It's the second pair of sleeves now. So, you're in favour of the government's trinity, that's what we all stand for, that's not questionable. But then you're also trying to figure out what someone should do in that trio of the three legs or the pillar of the Croatian state. That's not good, we're not here to doctor. We are here to talk in the Croatian Parliament that we are making or not making proposals for certain laws. I'm not sure when I listen to everyone who's here all the professions that you're visionaries when you see it all, but I'll tell you one thing I'm sure of. You came to the HDZ youth meetings in Treshnyvk north and like when you talk to HDZ that you remember these times with nostalgia, it was during the former prime minister. When I took over the city organization then I got on record that my member was a Ivan Pernar, I don't know if it was you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1707	Mr. HDZ, I would like to say that I was this Ivan Pernar, that I believed that HDZ was a good party, that I believed that Ivo Sanader was leading us into the European future and I was as cheated as thousands of other citizens, and that's why I signed out later. But what I'm trying to say is, sir, if your conscience is clear, let's say to your opposition colleagues, why are you afraid if you're not guilty of the application of this law? Gentlemen, I spoke to Mr. Grumo the other day, and I told him, "Dear Grumo, if it's my fault, if I'm guilty, I'm willing to answer, take me to prison, but first sentence all those who have sinned before me. And that's the problem in the whole story that court proceedings or judgments are being conducted with us politically selectively where people like Eve Sanader have been protected from your party for years, where Karamarka is still being protected, etc. on the one hand. And on the other hand, or as we had an opportunity here to see that in one case six years are waiting and in the other case in six months a verdict is made. So if you're ready to run political processes with the aim of getting kicked out of the election race, go for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1708	Thank you, Agent Pernar. Representative Tomislav Saucha also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1709	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Pernar, I somehow had the feeling that this was going to happen that I would be imputed to support criminals and would like them to be elected to the Croatian Parliament. I'd just like to be clear about the precision of saying it's a lie, so I don't support it, I said this is a very sensitive question. I pointed out that all crimes are extremely dangerous and distasteful, the work of a distasteful social phenomenon and I was just defending the principle that passive voting law should not be excluded except in extreme circumstances. I've been troubled by the fact that because of the inaccurate law that certain crimes have been found in this catalog that I'm not sure they belong there. So I never said I should make it possible, that I shouldn't be able to support criminals, and I also said that this is a dangerous precedent to open Pandora's box because we are asked to make a difference between crimes. Let's just say some crimes are fine and others aren't. And I said that the principle of proportionality should also be seen when prescribing this catalog, i.e. the proportions and the penalties and the sanctions and that's why when the last law was written, it was very careful surgically precise that the criminal acts would go in, which they didn't. Because it means such a law must pass a constitutionality test in the Constitutional Court if someone tries to bring it down, and I believe it will be those who will try to challenge it. So just so you know what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1710	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1711	Mr. Saucha, I'm glad you called, and that allowed me to replicate. That, of course, it wasn't intended to say that you support criminals, nor was my intention to say that I support it if it was possible that Josepha Rimac was misusing her apartment. No, I condemn it just as I condemn it when, if and when Milan Bandic may have abused his positions but cannot violate the will of the citizens. Because what can happen, Mr. Petrov? Tomorrow Mr. Jambo from Metkovic and you're in a situation where the opposition in the Parliament can file 100 criminal charges against you. I roll around in papers, one of them looks convincing to me, I say you guys eliminate God Petrova. That's what gentlemen can do, it can happen, but it can't happen. So that's not how the political opposition should be eliminated. As for Vlahusic in Dubrovnik, which would make it impossible for this law to run, I am the first against him. When I was walking past him in Dubrovnik, I didn't want to give him my hand, and I told him you were a criminal. But I would never go through election law to defeat him in the election. Because then it's not an election, it's a farce. It is not possible for the ruling party and the ruling structure to determine who will go to the elections and who will not, because it is quite clear that never the HDZ gentlemen, or the HDZ, but those who are in power, because tomorrow the ticket of happiness can be turned, tomorrow you gentlemen can be in opposition and we and the SDP together in power. The next day we can tell Mr. Brkic has a criminal application we're going to kick him out of the race and he's preferably chosen as I from the last place despite people knowing everything about him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1712	Thank you, counsel. I'm truly sorry I'm not in the benches so I can replicate. The next representative to report for the replica is Mr. Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1713	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Pernar, you have shown by now a great ability to point to problems and idiosincracies of society in which we live especially in the judiciary, the judiciary and politics. And I believe I speak for all of us here when I say that no one remains indifferent after your exposure. I still have two remarks for you. The first is that when you talk about individual cases in our judiciary. Keep an eye on that one, on that one logical mistake called post-hoc ergo pitter hoc or that one event can have more causes than just an event after which it happens. It's the first one. It's a bit general. Don't mind. And the second thing I wanted to say to you is that you were actually chosen because of this previously mentioned ability to direct criticism. However, you were also elected to this home to be given the opportunity to be constructive and to say in your opinion after that criticism that would be the solution to the problem? So I invite you and trust you again, I will take the legitimacy to speak for all of us here but also a little wider, for all of our voters, especially those who chose you that we are very interested in what solutions you will offer for the problems. So benevolently, I'm saying this, not now as some kind of criticism at the expense of you, but purely here as a kid, if you'll allow a reminder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1714	Thank you, counsel. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1715	I thank you, Mr. Glavasevic, and you basically said the essential thing, which is to ask the question which is the solution. While I was sitting here and while the debate lasted, I briefly exchanged words with Mr. Grumo and he told me so I would not take office, let's say Mr. Vlahusic, for example. By amending this law. It's true, it won't be taken, but let's just say it's not gonna make it impossible for him to run any further, and let's say he has a chance to win. Same as Milan Bandic. No matter how much we don't like him here again. And what's most interesting is the SDP gentlemen from the party that Milan Bandic left to actually protect his right to be elected. And this, I think, is the act of a highlight of democracy unlike you HDZ colleagues who are very cruelly treated by your former members and some of them have become ill because of your treatment and have not been the only one to blame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1716	I thank my colleague Pernar. The next Club of Representatives reported in the debate is the HNS club and, on their behalf, representatives Nada Turina-Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1717	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to calm my passions down a little bit. The Croatian People's Party, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party, will say immediately at the beginning that one part of this bill's proposal, means this first part relating to the extension of the catalogue of criminal offences by which we are prevented from running to representatives in the Croatian Parliament is not acceptable to us. Not only is it not acceptable for all of these reasons that have already been mentioned in the discussions before, but also in these last ones before me, but also because we know quite reliably that both the competent authorities, or the Constitutional Court, have already shown themselves about these things, and that, in his observations and decisions, he has actually said that he does not accept, or that such provisions are not good and that such provisions should be removed from the law as such. So, today, from 11 o'clock, we are discussing in a good part of what is important, but what will ultimately go into two readings and we will mean once again, and what is most likely to be taken in this form will be put out of effect, and then the question is, at all, what is the beginning of the work of the Parliament which, for which everyone in these elections, and especially the part of the colleagues who are now in power and above all colleagues from the Most advocates of efficiency, reform and all, effective work primarily of the Croatian Parliament, where this is going, and whether we are actually showing to the public what they would like as parliamentary representatives and what is more in the objectives that are stressed here that should be achieved with the adoption of this law in this part where the catalogue of criminal acts is being extended, says the return of the representatives in the Croatian Assembly. I mean, thank you very much for the dignity you bring back to me, and I don't need it personally, so it's about those who might not understand what dignity would be. So if this is the way you think about restoring dignity to me personally, you don't need it, and I trust the members of my club and most people sitting here because this way of work and such suggestions are not restoring dignity to either the Croatian Parliament or parliamentary representatives or politics in general. Dignity and dignity in life are generally, we know how they are achieved, they are achieved by honest work, responsibility, efficiency, the results of working with it gain dignity, and surely they are not achieved in a way that, here, for seven hours now, they are discussing something that will most likely experience fate that will be said to be put out of force and that will be discussed twice. This second part of the law, so we can't support that first part because someone has already said it's wrong, or whoever's in charge of it has already said it. So to repeat the same mistakes and push it in this way can only be translated with the aim of not restoring dignity but of what a colleague before me was saying, which is that he is actually aiming to exclude certain political figures from being able to run in some of the next elections. There's no other way to explain it. And this second part of the law relating to preferential voting is something that is acceptable to HNS, however, certainly not the most important in the electoral law and in the election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. And we believe that enough time means in the next 3.4 years, I hope that most people expect so much that they will be in power to prepare a comprehensive law because it is not the biggest problem to have one and three preferential votes in our electoral law, there are many bigger ones. One of these is, above all, the constituencies that the Constitutional Court has pointed out are not constitutional. So de facto our election back several seems against my mandate because we are not proportional to the number of voters in all election units. This does not go to the expense of colleagues, but it is certainly expected that the government that is talking about reforms and which wants to change electoral legislation is taking steps in terms of and changes in that part, means in the area of election units. So three preferential votes. We absolutely don't mind. The Croatian People's Party was also one of the parties in the Croatian Parliament that supported GONG's proposal to go to a preferential vote at all. So, after that, the majority of the congregation joined in. We have passed a law that has introduced a preferential vote in the parliamentary elections, and we have also shown as a party that we know how to work in a way that we present our candidates preferentially to the voters and that, based on that, we are achieving good results. It won't be difficult for us with three preferential votes either. But what we may be a little afraid of is going a little unprepared with all this because we know in these elections there were problems with counting preferential votes because we have only had one preferential vote so far. When and in this case, if there are three, it is certain that additional technical work will be expanded in election committees or on election committees and that the whole system will need to be prepared and through the law much better than it has been prepared. Here we are just introducing three preferential votes with that I also think there was time to wait, that then the Laws on Local Self-Government Elections will also be held in 6 months, but if we were to change over the next year it would certainly not apply to these next elections, but to prepare in due time for the local elections to go to the preferential vote. So one whole package that was absolutely time-consuming unless someone thinks they're going to be a parliamentary one or I don't know which one's going to be quick. I hope he doesn't think so. Oh, no? It means that the government is stable, that there is trust between coalition partners and that we could have these laws that are extremely important to pass in one more thoughtful way without such an ugly debate, where all of them are right and are all about wrong, which means that the law and the bill are wrong. That's why the HNS will be held back in this first part. We're going to try to contribute as much as we can to start producing a new law and we're absolutely in and we're going to support everything that's good, but we think what we're proposing right now at this rate is not good. Therefore, we also think that even in the second reading it is not possible only in these two points, or de facto in two articles, this law significantly improves in order to be acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1718	I thank the MPs. Representative Arsen Bauk reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1719	Madam MPs, you used a little too strong a word when you said that election units were going to quote against constitutionals. I would remind you that in 2015 the Constitutional Court decided on the Law on Election Units and that it refused the Law on the Assessment of the Constitutionality of the Law on Election Units, and among other things it refused, because until the polls closed, we do not know how many voters there are in which constituency, because members of national minorities can move from the 12th electoral unit to the general and vice versa on the day of the election. And the most interesting Law on Election Units was passed in 1999 along the fence that the difference should not be greater than 5%, and the moment the difference between election units was reached was 17%. So it's an absurd election system that needs to be fixed, because for example here I'm going to say a little bar patriotic. From Dalmatia there should be 3 more deputies, and from Slavonia 3 MPs less in the Croatian Parliament to equalise the number of voters per election unit. For example, in 2015, the list of the Coalition Croatia grows in the 10th constituency and in the 6th constituency received the same number of votes. The list won 4 seats in the 10th, and the list in the 6th term. In any case, it is necessary to amend the Electoral Law in a way that changes the electoral units, but that this change is not only a harmonisation but rather a bit more radical for which I hope that MOST colleagues and other parties have political wills.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1720	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1721	Well, colleague Bauk, of course you're right, you're right. However, what I was about to say is you said in this second part of your replica, which is that we are all aware of the fact that it means the number of voters that produce a number of representatives in one area, or in one constituency is not equal in another in the second constituency and that in general, the form and composition of our electoral units is such that I do not think it reflects either territorial, geographical, cultural, or traditional, or that I do not know all the views of the voters of a particular area. In some constituencies, this is particularly pronounced. And we consider, of course, I believe everyone here that this is necessary in the Electoral Law to change urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1722	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1723	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues Turina-Đurić, therefore, you stressed that I would not agree with my colleague, Bauk, that Dalmatia should have three representatives more than Slavonia at all, but you can see where this is leading us. Now that we're talking about changing the introduction of three preferential votes in the amendment to the Electoral Law, we've come to the constituency that they are not well-coordinated. And then the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia is necessarily bound to it. So we have counties, we have municipalities and cities, and it's all just complex matter. Again I say with the structure of the county of those who are less will have fewer chances. And as for the preferential votes here, for example, here's the 4th Election Unit The National Coalition received about 46,000 votes, of which around 26, half of the voters decided to vote preferentially. And do you know how many of these preferential votes went to our smaller coalition partners, so HNS, to HSS? Almost 16 grand. I congratulate you on your preferential voices, but that tells us the same thing. That smaller coalition partners will somehow be more motivated naturally in this struggle to have their voters vote preferentially. Now, I think today, my colleague Bauk first mentioned the issue of pre-election coalitions that are opening up as well. Whether or not we will have such a coalition in the future. It does not necessarily have to be good or bad for democracy, but this law will certainly cause a series of consequences to say so, and a series of thinking may also be preparing to amend future legislative proposals. In that sense, I think it has shown somehow its purpose at least in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1724	The next representative who has already reported for individual participation in the debate is MP Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1725	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although this debate has been delayed, today since morning we have been discussing this law, and tomorrow some other laws are going on, but if we break up then we will do the same, I, no matter how much it may seem to make no sense at all, or that some law de facto here colleagues have said in their provisions, raises serious doubts about whether they will even be enforceable, whether the Constitutional Court will put it into effect, I strongly advocate that the debates are being conducted. That's why we're here. So even though the colleagues in MOST really, here's this law has 5 articles, so there are changes that can really be written within a very short time, de facto to some son's idea and in two articles, I am in favour of having such laws discussed if it takes and two days for Croatian citizens to get the impression not only of who it is but how seriously they prepare for the conduct of their duties, which they want, how much it all makes sense. And no matter what many citizens look at us and wonder why and what we've been discussing here all day. So this seems crucial what MOST can offer in this term in the Croatian Parliament. These 7 laws and one of them is the idea to favour 3 MPs although Mr. Simic said the law would still change several times as it applies and would be included in other provisions. Although this may not seem too meaningful to the citizens, I am discussing it in the Assembly, that Croatian citizens see someone playing, not playing, thinking they're doing something, creating perception, taking the right to be the only one who can teach moral lessons to everyone else. Let the citizens see and let them vote. If, by the estimate of colleagues, it will be enough next time for 10%, maybe it will, maybe that's the goal of keeping the stable electoral body of 10% who likes so little to complicate things and doesn't solve anything. I will support the preferential vote of three on the list, I will support it if there is until the second round or I will advocate at the SDP Representatives' Club to support it and to abolish the 10% limit for entry into the Croatian Parliament but I would love it if the legislators would and those who think about how this changes slightly and more radically in changing the electoral model and if they would return to Croatia election units or the possibility that people would know what their electoral framework is. Of the 150 MPs in the Republic of Croatia, I think he deserves at least half to be elected from his constituency. For the record, if I live in Maxime, 70 or 60 thousand people live there, it's one constituency and it's known to be their representative. If we're going to change and let's do the right thing then let's do that list of what you said that parties or leadership have a minor impact although fellow Saucha has said well he should sometimes give someone a chance to show himself. Neither would Mr. Bulj get that chance if he hadn't already been behind an experienced representative from Primosten in a former meeting that crossed his path to the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Commissioner Primosten Petrina. And then as a young representative, although more experienced in years, shows what he knows and thus is established and secondly deserves preferential votes to enter the Croatian Parliament. So that's the same possibility. So Mr. Petrov as head of the party is Mr. Bulje and, of course, Petrina who was very branded downstairs and the famous head of the municipality made it possible for someone to affirm himself in the Croatian Parliament. That's okay. That's why you don't have to run away from this model. So from the list, 150 of them can be half, 70 or 75, and let them vote three times preferentially, and on the other hand let our citizens have the possibility directly in their election unit, the electoral district to choose one MP to know exactly who his elected representative is. I'd like it to go in that direction, not to try with one ad hoc idea, not to try to create an idea with an ad hoc idea that something radically democratisation is actually not done too much and that's not what I think we should change that law in the future in that direction. So until the second reading, I hope that the law will see more changes, that Mr. Simic and the Club of Representatives of the Most will finally have everything that needs to be changed. He would suggest that we also apply immediately to elections for the European Parliament, I don't see why we can't do this, that the list for the European Parliament can also round up three instead of one so that you can put it in a procedure to discuss these two laws together, making sure that this is all adopted by a year before the European elections so that it can be implemented because, for example, for local elections, it will no longer be possible to do so in view of the difference in the time gap and that we have a full and complete story. And then our citizens looking at this today wouldn't have the impression that it's only about creating impressions but it would have the impression that there's something concrete going on here. Though again, I will defend every MP in this House who will propose laws even if they were to make an impression, is that our job? And in the end, the citizens will evaluate. So my proposal and my imput and I would like to say a suggestion to the proposings until the next, suggest everything you want to change, read, classify things that are complementary, certainly because they are European elections, allow the measure of the electoral legislation to be established in Croatia by the electoral environment as it is in most countries in the EU and the world, that people know who their direct advocate is, and in this way you will make a contribution, and we, as an opposition, will believe it then and support it and probably add some of our own solutions and ideas. Don't, it's my suggestion to you, don't insist on the laws just to make impressions, no matter what I think it can be a representation job, and let the citizens in the end evaluate. As for who can't, there's a lot of it already said. Today, it is funny that Mr Mikulić, as a difficult circumstance, mentions Ivan Pernar's membership in HDZ. Look, he went here to make fun of you and say you were Ivan Peranr in HDZ and then he started laughing. Well, it's no shame to be in HDZ, why Mr. Mikulić was so perceptive. Well, you shouldn't be ashamed of being in HDZ, but you shouldn't be ashamed of leaving HDZ. After Sanader did what he did, after many of the Croatian citizens were disappointed with HDZ, which had a huge contribution in the 1990s, and in two thousand, of course, except for the shameful privatisation that was also made in the 1990s, and in two thousand, the biggest corruption affair was made and a lot of HDZs left HDZ, so I don't think it's a shame that you were in HDZ, and it's an honor that after such events you left HDZ, and I believe that many members also acted in the same way. But interesting that yet one HDZ official is ashamed of the fact that you were in HDZ means something that surprised me. It is not good that for various crimes and that Mr. Saucha very well said that they are taking benign crimes in the same rank as those that really make it impossible I would have told a public person to represent his city, municipality, county or ultimately state to carry out his political duty and should do something in this direction until another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1726	I'd like to thank Agent Maras. The first representative to report for the replica is Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1727	Thank you, Chairman. I thank you for your speech to my colleague, Maras. And I would just like to say that the Jutarnji List attacked you, Mr. Petrovi and me, says "as the Parliament was ruled by pure poisoning Petrov is in alliance with Pernar, Gromo and Bul Parliament traffic to the temple of the unseen demagogy." We have come to the situation that Marijan Hanžekovic, who lost his unfortunate customers from HRT because of your intention to take away his forced payment through the performance, decided to attack Grmoja yesterday, and now Mr Petrov has come your turn and I want to thank you this time for the proposal you made in the law. And I'd just like to look back on Mr. Maras' speech for a little while, but what happened, this news got me so out of touch that I actually forgot what I was going to say to Mr. Maras. But I want to thank you for smudgering Hanžekovic's accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1728	Comrade Pernar, please, I would only ask to thank you if you will thank colleagues after, but to use the replica as soon as necessary. And I'd really like to ask that we all stick to it, so we'll be less charged with demagogy. The other colleague who answered, you will respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1729	Thank you very much. It's not your fault. It's not Mr. Petrov's fault. And that's what was expected to happen. When we have seven laws of two articles, do you really think Mr. Simic think that Croatian citizens think that something concrete has been made here today and yesterday and in the past days, except, of course, the appointment of the new Croatian government, which is a solemn moment for the country and is concrete. But these laws, so please, that's why the press is writing it. Not because you have your debates which are so much personal or Mr. Petrov who leads with quite a firm hand and patronatic this Croatian Assembly which is visible from the gesture and touch of microphones. Every time someone wants to warn or point to a mistake, you will notice that they always touch the microphone and lean forward. ... I'm not that professional, but I know enough, here's this, but I know enough to recognize the gesture and the body language. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Not for you and Mr. Petrov, but for unserious suggestions. But let's still let people see and hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1730	Mr. Maras, in short, this was on purpose and I'm glad you recognize the gesture but unfortunately not always true. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1731	Dear colleague Maras, what I noticed in one of our previous debates, and then I didn't want to react not to be longer, now it's happening again that you actually don't listen very well to speakers when they talk. That's how we are, for example. We've had a situation before, and then it's your insubordination of statements that we have a chance to listen to. That's how we had an example. when amending the Law on the financing of political activities where you resisted your strength to talk about how you should not actually tie financing to budget revenues and only because you have not heard before from a representative of your club who said that the SDP intended or even went to some procedure. And then you're here to convince us in your discussions for at least 10 minutes that it's not right. You don't listen, you didn't listen when the president called you here to bring out the debate because you spoke on the phone. You obviously didn't listen to me when I was talking about why we're going with these suggestions, which is exactly why it's just you and not someone else. For the same reason you haven't changed the Electoral Law all these years essentially. Because you couldn't make a deal. These are the two things we think we can agree on and we're willing to listen to the arguments and change them to be even better. And whether it's an impression or something, some kind of a more serious change, so that's where you didn't listen to your colleagues when they told us that by introducing three preferential votes, we're introducing serious changes in coalition relations, in the pre-election coalition. I don't think it's that important, but I think for the Croatian democratic system, for the elections, the introduction of three preferential votes is really valuable and important. And if you have any more changes to this law that you are willing to stand behind and we see that these are good ideas and you have 62 MPs and our club numbers 14 we will be very happy to engage and help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1732	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1733	Thank you very much. I would ask first the President of the Parliament to protect the representatives of the Croatian Parliament from unfounded attacks. How some other counsel can assess whether someone has listened or not. I listened very well, Mr. Simic, and I know what you were saying and the change can sometimes be made up in five minutes and to be essential, it can be unprepared and it can be essential. That has nothing to do with what my colleague Sauch said. Any idea that will significantly affect the law may be essential but does not have to be well prepared. It can be in terms of creating impressions, not quality and good improvement. That's what I was talking about. So was the law on the financing of political parties, so is this law and all these laws that follow. So is it possible that MOST can't write any law that has more articles than MOST has letters. 4 letters, 4 articles of the law,... a systematic proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So look at the laws that are passed, what the laws of the political parties and the opposition and the positions in the past have proposed. Well, you're not going to tell me that this is science fiction that you've done, scientific work. It's an idea that's come to someone, I support them, again I'm telling you, three MPs preferable I think it's better than one but don't take away my right to tell you it's an impression. As for the SDP and our proposals, let us in the SDP not have to agree on everything. You're making me have an opinion like everyone else. Those times are over. I can have an opinion within my own party. Or do you want to take that away from me? In this case, I didn't have the same opinion as my colleague Bauk, who may have proposed the law, but I respect the will of the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1734	Thank you and here's just such a short fellow MP, I'd better not start estimating if it's exactly what some MP said, I'd better be estimating whether someone's holding the Rules of Procedure or not. The representative who responded for the replica is Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1735	Well, I've been pulled, but here. Oh, no, I just wanted to react to the Honorable MP when you mentioned the results of Mira Bulj and how Mr. Petrina crossed his path. So Mr. Petrina tried to enter the Croatian Parliament on several occasions, went to the elections, and until the appearance of the Most failed. So the MOST itself as a brand allowed him to enter the Parliament and Mr. Bulj has now shown what the result has achieved and Mr. Petrina has shown how much support he has in these elections. So I think Mr. Bulj's result should be appreciated and Mr. Petrina certainly has his constituents and support but this support is not enough to enter the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1736	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1737	Thank you very much. I can agree in part with you in your discussion, the fact that the bridge has paved the way for Mr. Petrina and Petrina has paved the way for Mr. Bull. We can take it that way. Look at the number of preferential votes, Mr. Petrina, is, is, all ok. First, first, you, here's to congratulating you by the way, you skipped first place. It's a great success especially in the electoral unit where you don't live. That's mine, otherwise I was born there, the 6th electoral unit of New Zagreb. Well done, I congratulate you on that, but to be perfectly correct, I think my colleague Bulj entered the Croatian Parliament for the first time on the party's proposal. And it turns out that man, here to commend him, makes sense that he's a representative. And I think he's right about that. So you do your job properly. No matter what I think this law should've proposed, but you're doing your job properly, no matter what I think you're not the only one for the INA first fighter in Croatia, but you're still doing your job correctly. So we need to separate our position on the individual action or inaction of individuals and on what should be done as a rule. So here's another honor for you on election results, but for the first time, MOST has made it possible for colleagues to enter the last law. So there should be no exception to that possibility in the future, of course, for other MPs who may have not yet been discovered and their potential certainly exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1738	Thank you. The next representative to report for replica is Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1739	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President, I'm sorry. Here's the whole day's debate shows that the second reading was quite justified for us to get into it because we don't need to run barefoot into thorns, and do we all agree or disagree? I'm a little out of agreement with my colleague, Maras, just in that we're going to be supporting these three preferential votes right now. I'd like to draw attention to one moment, which is that we may have forgotten the party in this debate and that they may have forgotten the program. Namely, the party in the election when we go to the Parliament elections goes to voters with the program. If he gets the party's trust for the programme then he needs to be brought back to life, then he has to do what is now an appropriate legal framework and then only through the prime minister and minister and somehow fill it out. We both need people for each other. For this second, when it comes to prime minister and ministers, the prime minister is God, determines who will be ministers, he cheers and dresses and there is no problem. However, we must also take care of the legislative framework. So on legislative but also control and prime minister and minister. E for those who go through the legislative framework for them agrees with the list. On the list you have order for ability, commitment, working, experience, courage, etc. etc. However, if we were to go too far towards preferential votes and if we allowed enough, so if the preference goes in an uncontrollable direction, it can be very easy for us not to have any more, we don't, we're in danger. So the program doesn't put us in danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1740	Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1741	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1742	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1743	I agree with you, colleague Ronko, on this point, but of course they still have the possibility of the party, i.e. representatives of the candidate parties, to propose on the assumption that they are party lists. I do not believe that any party will allow itself to put on the list someone who is explicitly opposed to representing the program of what the party is or what it represents. So I was just talking on my own behalf about me being a representative in the debate, of course we'll discuss it even in the future when we see the final bill, I would support a bigger choice of citizens than smaller ones. I don't think 3 MPs are more preferential than they are right now, and it allows for one width. Because quite often, one MP who had been able to choose preferentially so far has created problems on the list. So people had to decide, someone ran a preferential campaign, someone didn't, parties around their candidates knew how to squeeze if they were coalition lists. Now it will be very difficult to work on a coalition list, because if you have one representative per party on the coalition list, everyone will go around it and it will have a much more chance of passing than he had last time. So this law, someone has been saying it the other day or today, is essentially going to be about making very careful arrangements in the future and asking whether they will even enter them unless the ratios are such that the two larger parties, if they are such that one party is extremely much bigger than the other, will hardly be signed by such coalition agreements. So there are many moments, but I don't think 3 MPs are too much to support in the future as we introduced a year and a few days ago, or two years to choose one.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1744	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1745	Comrade Maras, you spoke of preferential voices, of course, and I agree that it should be 3 as the MOST suggested and be in order, and on how you spoke before last, I was also by the number of votes second. But if it wasn't the Most Independent Lists and the fantastic ideas that I was proud of being on that list, because you know that I live in Sinj and there an independent list that was essentially made out of activists in the fight for people, that list achieved good results in Sinj, and I got 25% in Sinj without any campaign in that, somewhere around 2.5 thousand votes I had in total. Now I don't know how many there are in the House, here are parliamentary deputies who got two and a half thousand votes. That's the last time, this time 11,000 votes I'm extremely proud of. And there's a big problem exactly the territorial structure of the electoral units. For example, the people in Lika didn't hear about me then, and Split and Solin couldn't vote for me, and a huge number of people in the Dalmatian Burn know how it is, that it's addressed to the Split swimming pool. Because the electoral unit has Sibenik-Kninska, Zadar and Licko-Senjska so I am extremely proud that all of those votes in my first run for Parliament were concentrated in Sinj, means 25% in my city far more than I got the SDP so in past elections, for example, here from your party president, the president of the club pardon I got more double the votes of the preferential than your party in Glavica. That's an extraordinary result. So I didn't come out of nothing. But I respect the Most Independent Lists, and I am proud to have participated in this not only with the INA, the INA MOL case where we courageously called the names and last names and emperors who rule and manage the powers that we will continue to do. Don't worry. I don't know if you'll have the courage, but thank you for being here and commending me for what I can't really say about you as a minister. But there you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1746	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1747	Thank you very much. It's already enough that you didn't mention the commercials. You always mention that in your replica, so here's a step at a time, and we'll come to you to commend me as Minister someday. But sometimes it takes a long time to figure out what was done. You know, some things aren't visible right away. But let me say it one more time. So if you're doing it that way, do it, here's my proposal right here on the table to make an election environment. Why wouldn't that be possible in Croatia? Make it a party list, 70, 75, and make it 75 districts. So 50, 60,000 voters, and then we know exactly where who's who and then you don't have a problem, then everyone knows you. It's Sinj, the neighborhood. You'll have it there in the Cetina region. Yeah, yeah. But in the Cetina region, you'll have an election district that will know you best. And I think that's the right way, and I'm sorry that this is happening, and here I think I'm not what I'd say that debate might have potentiated enough in my political work. But now in opposition when you have time to deal with a wider area than when you're a minister I mean to insist and I think it's a good idea. So here's if you're willing to listen to these ideas, and I see by your approval not only you have the will to listen but you think it's a good idea to suggest and try to fight for it in the majority that makes laws in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1748	Thank you. The last representative to report for the replica in this presentation is representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1749	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleague Maras has set out to be quite surrounded by rational, emotional judgments. We live in a transition country where the fluctuations of individuals going from one political organization to another are a little more common than in Western European countries. I'm sorry that you understood that my colleague Mikulić was a member of the HDZ with some kind of disgust or I don't know what he realized. It was more like this, given that MP Pernar most often addressed his dear colleagues from HDZ, it seemed more like some sort of seed. And maybe one day if he recognizes MP Pernar's programming and world-famous platform, he closes the circle and returns to the Croatian Democratic Community. We were glad that fellow Pernar as a young man recognized the Croatian Democratic Community programme. At some point, he did not consider it his political option any more, he went the other way and it was quite normal and logical. And here's another very well-intentioned suggestion. Don't use the term personality, it's such a rather peorative term. It may be an unconventional way of expressing a representative of Pernar in the Croatian Parliament that has not been usual until now, but let us allow freedom of opinion in the way that MP Pernar says it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1750	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1751	Let me congratulate you on your choice and on your oath here today and personally. This is your first announcement at the Croatian Parliament. The first things are remembered in life, so I believe you'll remember that you've devoted your first replica and first call to me. So congratulations on your choice. On the other hand, I really appreciate people who have a distinct personality and I didn't mean it negatively. I just want to encourage people in this House to express their personality as much as possible because that's why people choose them and want to see certain representatives in a way and a lot of ways, I'm convinced that Mr. Pernar will have a lot of success in that and that a lot of people will recognize him who may not be interested in politics right now. Because if we're all the same, then it doesn't make any sense, and I believe that people support as many personalities and as many attitudes as possible, and in the end, they can judge who's closest to them. As for the fact that Mr. Pernar was in HDZ, I wanted to point out something else. I'm never in favor of personal access. Let me feel a certain amount of entrenchedness in that, and then I had to urinate the way I reacted. So don't go personal. So what if he was? You want to humiliate someone, tell them it's wrong, that he did something he shouldn't have done. Well, that would be like me saying that Mr. Mikulić was in a party. Here. And he was in the game. That way you shouldn't talk to anyone, especially anyone who trusted you with his information, entered your party. And that's why I reacted like this, maybe I shouldn't have. But I'm extremely concerned that people don't call themselves on a personal level. And I wanted to sort of take it to protect a young colleague, not a young one, but a colleague, because when you're told by a young colleague, and I've been told it very often again, it looks patronizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1752	Thank you, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1753	I wanted to protect my colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1754	Please don't hold the microphone and be dominant, please. It's been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1755	Can I finish my sentence? Here's my apology. I wanted to protect Mr. Pernar from such an approach, and I hope that you will do so in the future so that MPs at a personal level will not be humiliated in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1756	Thank you. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is counterpart Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1757	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Tomorrow's gonna be the full eight days we're sitting in this assembly. In those eight days, I can say that we've done very little work, important work but very little work. The Assembly was established, which I think is very good without any problems and last night the Croatian government was elected, which I also think is good and that this assembly of the Parliament has these few days completed two main tasks which are the assumption of further functioning of both the Parliament and the Croatian Government and the entire Croatian state. I'd like to make one little remark without the intention of offending anyone or making anyone feel called. The MOST colleagues made several legal proposals in the procedure. It is a proposal for the Law on HRT, the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament that we are now discussing, a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Elections, a proposal for a law supplementing the Implementing Law which I consider to be very important laws and I believe that these amendments and additions put into the procedure do not really contain either the minimum necessary data or the problems observed so far in these laws that could be considered a first reading. Therefore, the amendments and additions to some of the laws contained in one article, two articles or three articles are indeed either changes in the cosmetic nature or changes with the intention of a specific political option in order to be voted on in the first days of the Parliament's work. I don't think that's good. Someone before me said Mr Simic's opening statement was to read out the intentions and objectives of the proposed reforms. I am indeed from these four laws that are today and tomorrow in the procedure and the day after tomorrow, and I probably don't see any intention and purpose of the announced reforms Monday. Because it is neither enough nor minimal enough to conclude that the amendments and additions to these laws that we are discussing these days and this is now more difficult for some kind of reform. I believe that the issue of electoral legislation is a fundamental and key problem that this Croatian Parliament needs to address and that it is a prerequisite for all of those reforms that have been discussed in the past months that are being discussed today and which promises to be implemented tomorrow. So, I believe that this proposal amends and complements the Law on selecting MPs in the Croatian Parliament as well as tomorrow what we will discuss about the laws on local elections cannot solve problems or solve necessary procedures and bring important and key changes to these two laws only by amending one or two articles. Now, during the debate, there was an opportunity to make changes and in the second reading, and the moment we got that on the table last Friday was about changing and supplementing the emergency procedure. I think the promoter should think very carefully, that the party promoter MOST, MOST Representatives' Club, should sit down with his coalition partner and make a quality proposal to amend and supplement the entire legislative package that is here on the table for us to consider. I believe that this is not enough that we have received, and Mr Simic himself said that there will also be more interventions in this part of the law or this part of the legal proposals in the coming period, and therefore I believe that this should be done at once, or in the complete amendment and supplement proposal, so that this law can be adopted in this form so that the system can function. Especially this law that lies ahead of us. It is the Law on Elections of Representatives for the Croatian Parliament. This mandate has just begun and I believe that this mandate will succeed in preserving and surviving in all four years of office and therefore I believe that there is enough time and that this Law on Elections for the Croatian Parliament will be thoroughly and completely changed, reconstructed and adapted to the times in which we live. Because I recall that this package of electoral legislation was passed many, many years ago, that the electoral issue was discussed and decided back in the 1990s during Mr Pasalić and Seks which are the cornerstone of the entire electoral system in the Republic of Croatia, and which we are applying and on what basis is also based on today's legislation. I believe that it is the obligation of the ruling majority to launch a process and procedure for the creation of an expert group that will prepare quality proposals for electoral legislation and this part concerning the choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, as well as electoral legislation relating to units of local self-government. I'm going to use these three minutes just to explain a few unknowns that refer to this second section of the bill, I'm going to look back at the criminal catalogue. The crime catalogue has been established over the past years, it seems to me that it was somewhere in 2012, 2013, 2015, so the initiative itself for the need to happen a year, two before, while I was in prison in Mostar. The question of whether a person's term ends, when a person's term ends, whether someone can run for office in the elections, whether we can't run for office in the elections if he is convicted or sentenced legally for a criminal offence is so far regulated in our legislation and in the existing laws. An average viewer who is now watching probably doesn't know and thinks that so far everyone could run whether or not he has committed some kind of crime and has been convicted of it. Thus far, it has been regulated by law if a parliamentary representative, during the duration of his term of office, is legally sentenced to a term of imprisonment for six months, then automatically loses his mandate, so his mandate ends by force of law. Unfortunately, on my own skin, I felt it in 2010 when I was legally convicted and when my mandate ended somewhere in July 2010. In 2011 in parliamentary elections, therefore during the time of the punishment, my party skillfully placed in public ahead of the upcoming parliamentary elections that I would then carry the HDZB list, the then DIP headed by Croatian President, gave its statement and confirmed that it was possible for me to carry the HDSB list from prison at the previous parliamentary elections before 2011. However, I remind many of you have forgotten, that the Constitutional Court, after that DIP position, has called and warned the DIP that this is simply not possible, and has called for this particular Article 30. The Constitution which states "that a criminal for serious persons, in particular criminal offences, in accordance with the law, may result in losses acquired or the prohibition of acquisition for a certain period of time of certain rights to carry out certain tasks if this requires the protection of the legal order". So even then there was an instrument to stop the procedure or attempt to run for office in the event of a person convicted of a serious crime. So, all that is needed and now exists in legislation. I appeal to the promoter to prepare this first reading quality for the second reading, touch all the problems and only in the next procedure months after that to be resolved. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1758	Thank you. The representative who first reported for the replica is representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1759	Dear colleague Glavas, I respect you very much as a lawyer and as a representative. Now I was encouraged to call when you said very little work done, and I see it as a businessman and watch the debates about this law that it is more agreeable to its voters here than to address the problem of the law. If this is how we keep working in this House to hang out with each other, to talk, to make jokes I don't think this is a joke story, it's a law that needs to be passed. As Parliament MP, we change Croatia's party I support this law, I hope it will go in the right direction for our voters, but if we don't already know how to do it, so we have this Austria one near us, we rewrite what the democratic world is doing, we make some kind of system for this country to finally be settled once with the laws. For 25 years, there's always talk of laws, and we've never finished them, they're never the laws they're supposed to be. Let's leave it to our legal experts so they can really write it down so we can see if it's really good or not. This is all in between, it's not, it's not, it can't, I'm afraid we won't bring anything in that next term to do something again. If you've come up with this law well, I'll back you up, I can see it's going in a better direction than it was. I agree with three preferential votes, let God be more, that hardworking people enter the Parliament, not some kind of political lines that they put in place and how it has been done so far. That's why we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1760	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1761	Dear colleague, I agree with what you said. This is nothing but an attempt to court most of the electoral body. The result, however, was a great mistrust that was taught by the MOST in relation to HDZ, taught by the experience of the last attempt to co-ulate and operate this technical government. So the expression of mistrust where such a bill of law was quickly required to be concluded and put on the table and put it in the procedure to vote on it before the government was adopted. As the days moved away, it was likely that the trust of each other’s partners was becoming more and more sincere and doubtless. I think that regardless of the fact that I believe that these bill proposals not only today, but also the one that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow are not mature to discuss at all, give up this procedure, pull them back, we have what to do, there are resolutions and the final sessions of the Parliament that we have not finished, which are what reports, we are going to do this until the government functions. Let's go, probably there are regulations of the Technical Government of Oreshkovic, put them on the table, we have something to do, this is just a public deception if we do a bill of law that has 1, 2, 3 or 4 articles in one day, it's really just cheating on the public and creating an illusion that we do. This is a bad job, we're wasting our time and we're and we're bothering the public and there's not gonna be any concrete results for at least now or weeks yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1762	Thank you. Representative Pernar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1763	I'd like to tell Mr. Glavas that he thinks the current law is correct. But let's just say what would have happened, which would have happened if HDZ hadn't been released in the Supreme Court for criminal offences that were released as a legal person for criminal offences that would have been put on his burden. Why don't we put in the Electoral Law, then, that the parties convicted for the meaning of a joint venture to extract money from state-owned companies and channel that same money in their own pockets to prohibit such parties from going to elections. Someone's gonna say, that'd be good, someone's gonna say it wouldn't be. And I don't think it would be in the spirit of democracy, because even a party gathering thieves should have the right to go to the polls, so if someone wants to vote for thieves, let them vote for them. And this proposal seems to me to be going literally towards the collapse of democracy. And in his time, Dobroslav Paraga submitted a request to the Constitutional Court to prohibit HDZ from working for clear reasons but failed. And again, we return to the end of the fact that HDZ controls all government institutions, has its own people everywhere, simply their members are highly positioned untouchable until the moment they don't retaliate as Mr. Glavas, Sanader and the like. And otherwise, if they're still loyal to them like Calmeta and the crew, then they're protected in the wild. And I repeat that this law, or bill, will lead to processes against the political opposition. People such a law leads us to a dangerous situation that actually creates and undermines the very foundations of democracy. And I appeal to you from MOST colleagues to think deeply about all this and whether you are aware of where this is going to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1764	Thank you, Agent Pernar. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1765	Mr. Pernar, I didn't say that these legal solutions are now good or that they shouldn't be touched. I just said that there is therefore legal regulation how these cases are dealt with at least in the Croatian Parliament for the time being. The MP ends his term of office when he is sentenced to a 6-month prison sentence. On several occasions here from the SDP have arrived alluding to a specific person, that the law is passed because of a specific person from Dubrovnik. This person from Dubrovnik, as I recall and as far as I know, has not been sentenced to a fine of power for more than six months. It's about a powerful, conditional verdict. Is it okay to say Bauk? It's a conditional verdict. So this law on MPs doesn't come to me at all, there was no doubt and there was no doubt if someone was convicted of parole to take away his mandate. His mandate had not been taken from him before, so he should not be taken away from him after. And the Constitution is regulated exactly when someone cannot run or what rights can be permanently, or temporarily taken away. And what you said about HDZ. The HDZ was not released, the HDZ in that proceedings against it, a first-degree verdict was passed. The Supreme Court abolished that first-degree verdict and returned to the retrial. As far as I'm concerned, so in January 2015, the Constitutional Court abolished the Supreme Court's decision in my case and in July the Supreme Court now abolished the decision of the County Court and returned everything to its beginning. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1766	I'd like to thank the representative. The next representative who reported for individual participation in the debate is Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1767	Thank you, Mr. President. Last night, we voted most of the MPs in the Parliament's trust with the government of the Republic of Croatia and the programme proposed by the mandate. On page 26, the reform of the electoral system of point 6.2, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will approach a thorough analysis of the existing electoral system in order to correct its shortcomings, the discrepancies between the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament and the Law on Election Units and excessive deviations in the number of voters per constituency. And another part of the programme discusses the implementation of Articles 16 and 17 of the existing law concerning the election of representatives of national minorities. So it's a government program. The government is made up of HDZ and Most. One of the motions for this amendment to the law is the Most Independent Lists, which, within its agreed quota, has won the post of Prime Minister who is also Deputy Prime Minister. And that ministry is a competent ministry within the government to propose electoral law. There is also good practice that election law goes from Parliament itself. In the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament of this amendment, the Council of 2015 proposed a Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system as a body that brings together representatives of different parties of position and opposition. And that is where a consensus of political parties can be reached when proposed. It might be a good idea for the final bill to be drawn up by a committee headed again by a representative of the Most but not necessarily. And now for this particular, concrete amendment and addition of the law. A fellow Simic said in an opening statement this morning that he thinks these two things are easy to reach are easier to reach an agreement. As you can see, the debate shows that even these two things are not too easy to reach an agreement and I will try to explain what I think should be fixed in both of the things that are mentioned. Let's go easy. And in this case, it is easier to vote by three preferential votes, so a preferential vote. I must admit that I was skeptical of the very introduction of a preferential vote, however, it has proved that these restrictions in the law that we have are relatively politely balanced. So some people enter the Parliament based on preferential votes, the lists are drawn up so that sometimes such a schedule on the list motivates members and party voters to vote more for a candidate who is less positioned even if he is not in the so-called. the mainstream of a particular political party. And the introduction of three preferential votes would have a mathematical consequence that this threshold that is now 10% and which should remain 10% but mathematically reduced to the current levels of about 5% to 6%. Because if 2/3 of the voters vote favorably to assume that out of that 2/3, another 2/3 will use the right to vote for three, someone will vote for two, one for one. So the total number of preferences for the lists would increase so that theoretically those who have now received about 6% of the votes could count to cross the threshold. It's a reasonable measure to me at this point and the road is in the right direction. What we have a skeptic is that I also said on the board the ability of the electoral committees to count such votes because in the current elections we had the case that in some polling stations, the electoral committee put in the record that a list that has 200 votes that all candidates have won a zero. So they chose the exact votes of the list but they were, I guess they weren't allowed to count. A particular polling station number 107 in the City of Split, which I am thinking of right now, and there is another. The dear problem is a little bit bigger and this is that such a proposal de facto makes it impossible or difficult to pre-election coalition large and small parties. If it can be achieved that voters continue to vote for 3 preferential votes but that the result of the vote depends on the schedule within the same party. That might be the solution that would reconcile those two things. Therefore, in the context of the existing distribution of the parties on the pre-election list to determine how much of the parties received in order of the original and, then, within the quota of each of these parties, to determine which is the first candidate, who is the second, and which is the third, and thus to reconcile that part of the coalition, so as to influence the proponent and the other large party in the Assembly a little bit in this regard. Because I don't think we're interested in the so-called voices. small parties put in that kind of so-called. the fallen votes, so to be below the threshold, but to get their MPs in the Parliament as part of the contributions they have agreed with coalition partners and the number of votes they have received. It's about the preferential vote. I have no ambition to talk about major amendments to the electoral law in this case, so if there is an inter-party discussion on comprehensive amendments to the Electoral Law then various ideas will come up on the agenda. Personally, it is the most acceptable German electoral system for me, which is that the combination of voting for MPs in the electoral district and voting for the list. Then you know what your particular representative is, and for smaller parties it serves the state-level vote to have the effect of a proportional system. Therefore, everything I have said about the work of the preferential vote is valid in a system of 10 constituencies that elect 14 MPs. If there was a change then he would refer to those changes. So what I'm saying is true for this electoral system. The second and I would even say a more dangerous change is Article 9 of the existing law. So at this point in time, Article 9(5) reads, "The voters and political parties must not run for those for whom at the time of entry into force the decision to call the elections is not the past rehabilitation deadlines according to special laws, which are legally convicted of genocide, crime, aggression, crime against humanity, war crime, terrorism, terrorist association, torture, slavery and serious murder. "So these are indeed the most serious crimes that have passed and the Constitutional Court, the past principle of proportionality and the corresponding conditions of Article 30. A constitution that speaks about when a person can be banned from performing certain tasks. And that is if it requires protection of the legal order. In this bill of law, I think that there are too broad and too strict demands that my colleague Pernar has spoken of in his own special way, and I particularly fell into my eye on the fact that, apart from the unconditional punishment of six months, even for a probationary sentence, it is quite difficult, therefore, a very difficult obstacle, and that is a ban on running at all. I would still remind you of Article 56. A criminal law that speaks under what conditions parole can be imposed. It, therefore, cannot be laid down in Article 30. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The conditions say, therefore, that it is possible to take care of the person of the perpetrator, his former life, whether he has previously been convicted, family occasions, the circumstances of committing crimes and conduct after a crime has been committed. Therefore, the very fact that it is referring to the circumstances of a criminal offence suggests that the Court is already assessing at that time that it is not a serious and particularly unfair crime, as the Constitution says, and certainly such a provision is not in accordance with Article 30. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not satisfy the principle of proportionality that was warned by the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1768	I'd like to thank Agent Bauk. Since there is no replica, I move on to the next individual participation in the debate. He's a colleague of Pernar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1769	Thank you, Chairman. There's a little after a little debate spreading, it gets everything to say different contours, thoughts come from left and right, and I'd like to say. His diet Ivo Sanader said whether it was possible, i.e. where is it possible for a political party to be tried for corruption and crime? We've had a situation where, we're now discussing candidateing. However, it is not clear to me why, let's say, MOST's proposal does not put into its own as I would say, inserted into the Electoral Law, a proposal that political parties convicted of corruption and crime cannot be eligible in the elections. Why say someone, say, Mr. Bulj, that he, by chance, signed a warrant for 500 kuna, 1000, 10,000, whatever he couldn't possibly sign, convicted him of abuse of office and authority. He can no longer run for elections for three years, and on the other hand, a party can draw hundreds of millions of kunas in an organised collective venture and can still run for elections regardless. The question arises why are they allowed to do so? The HDZ would be allowed to do so for reasons why the ban on their participation in the elections would violate democratic principles. I think the MOST gentlemen agree, even if they are guilty, that they are banned from political action. That would be a blow to democracy. At the same time, however, the MOST gentlemen do not realize that if an individual like Milan Bandic is banned from political action, it is evident that voters want him as much as I do not like him or do not know who else. It's the same attack on democracy. I also had a lot of friends over Facebook texting Pernar, listening to what you're saying to people in the Parliament here, but there's one detail. Which one? I don't think even that law would be controversial if we had a fair judiciary. Mr. Petrov that we have an honest judiciary that works which is truly indiscriminately punishing people who are guilty. Well, okay. If they're guilty, let's go judge them all. However, we have a situation that there are people who are legally protected as character bears untouchable, and let's say people who do not have political protection or are, like, again, former HDZ members like Dr. Eve Sanader or Mr. Branimir Glavas, who no longer fell out here at some point of mercy, and then came at them. And now be careful what basic thesis was? When Sanader was after Glavas Sanader, he went with the story that Glavas is more evil than he is, that he's as unfair and he's good. Later, however, the court case showed that the unmistakably greater damage to Croatian society was done by Ivo Sanader. And now what's going on. Whether Sanader is guilty or not, I think he is, even though his verdict has fallen. But if Ivo Sanader says tomorrow the chacha is coming back I'm, where's the money, I'm running for election, does Ivo Sanader have that right? Are we going to defend him from running, let's say 2,000 voters want to vote for him? Is that democracy? And ultimately, if we disable it, why would HDZ be disabled if they were found guilty? Keep one more thought in mind. What does a powerful verdict mean to us? That doesn't mean anything to you, because all trials against HDZ are going down for procedural reasons. You have a 500-page file. In the case of Sanader, maybe 20 or 100,000 pages. The Constitutional Court is pulling one page out of the file, you see, it says here is not a matter made by procedure. We don't dispute that he took bribes, but we'll release him anyway. While at the same time when someone's not, say, not having good lawyers, not having a lot of money, not having a political influence on him, the Constitutional Court will never release him. And here, in fact, the unequal position before the law is put forward by candidates. I don't think the MOST in that bill of law took into account all these possible situations, combinations and possibilities. I think their, or yours, intention that the chairman was good and positive was to prohibit people from participating in politics. However, the question arises who is it in this country that determines who, or should the question be whether in Croatia trials begin and whether court rulings depend on political factors or whether the judiciary is independent? Let's answer that question. I think we will all sit here and those who do not agree that the Croatian judiciary is not independent. I don't think anyone can replicate to me and say Mr. Pernar isn't true we're all equal under the law, no bear face protected, etc. But I don't think anyone's going to replicate to me like that. And as long as the judiciary isn't independent, what is the quality of those judgments and what is their meaning? What's their point, ladies and gentlemen? I think there's no point and that's actually, and that's more, watch out for this absurd now why would a party convicted of crime be able to run and an individual convicted of the same crime couldn't? Where's the logic? Why does MOST use double criteria in this case? If we're already guys, if we're already what they say, we're all out of the sacristy, if we're hard-working and not saying what to say, then let's ban political parties convicted of crime. Now, what's the trick, you HDZ as a party, you'll never be able to convict for crime. Neither will Ivo Sanader. And watch out for this absurd you have a situation in the Croatian judiciary: Cobankovic has been legally sentenced to give a bribe to Sanader, allegedly 14 million kunas he has drawn. In a separate trial, however, Ivo Sanader was freed to take the bribe. So you have one legal system that, let's say, makes a verdict as if it were me, Mr. Bull, that I gave Mr. Bulj a bribe, and some other court, which, as part of that same judiciary, frees Mr. Bull from taking bribes from me. So where does that lead? Without judicial reform, without an honest judiciary, without justice which is equal to what we can consider to be relevant to the adoption of an electoral law or to decide who can run for office or not. Because, Mr. Petrov, as long as you are, you are now in the coalition, say, Most with HDZ, but don't think you won't find yourself in a situation where your head will want to take off, too. Because they have often in history their practice shows that they are insensitive to the political opposition. You are the opposition to them, not us from the Living Wall, you are the ones who touch the right electoral body. A trial can be conducted against anyone and robbed anyone on the head. The SDP gentlemen are aware of that. We of the Living Wall are aware of that. Gentlemen of the Most, are you aware of that? Where's this going to lead? In the end, no one knows. But what I can safely say is that the current amendments to the law will lead to the possibility of a choice falling. You will say that, voters will be able to choose three preferential candidates but it is you who will decide who can run, or power. Imagine the situation if you said ok we'll make such a law and put the opposition in a body that decides against whom trials can be conducted and against whom not. But no, the opposition won't decide who they can condemn and who they don't, but the government is the one who condemns them. Well, HDZ never condemned its members unless they went rogue. That's what you're aware of, Mr. Petrov. Does the whole of Zadar know that Calmeta is a criminal and that he stole everything? They know. Same as the story about Tito. He stole it, but he gave it to us. And what's going on? You would hereby ban Calmetti if he was convicted of running. I say again, I don't defend Kalmet, but if people in Zadar want to vote for those who are thieves, I think they have a right to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1770	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1771	Honorable President Mr. Pernar, in his last part, insulted individuals with his own insinuated conclusions where he deserved a warning because people represent criminals so almost it was done without being able to you and the people he mentioned today or to deny all that he had done in this House today to answer. I think he yelled at the chairman, and you have to put a little bit of an end to it because here, the qualifications that are not worthy of such a home that we say is above everyone, that it is the greatest and the most honorable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following So I think you need to punish some of these phenomena with warnings because this is already coming out of the normal behavior of the elected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1772	Thank you. Dear MPs may say that Mr Pernar, or Agent Pernar, may be warned about other matters under Article 238, but not according to this article that you have said for the reasons why parliamentary representatives have the opportunity to state their views on the subject. What's the problem, Mr. Pernar, is very often straying from the subject. But right now, I'm asking both Mr. Pernar and everyone else to try to focus as much on the subject as possible. At a certain point, I'll be a little stricter, but I'm playing it over and over again because let the Rules of Procedure be examined. And here, I don't just think about Agent Pernar and others, just to get into practice that we're all really using the Rules of Procedure and looking after those articles from the Rules of Procedure. So here's why I'm not giving you a warning right now. I'm referring you to article 238, but for this reason, not for the reason of the person being mentioned. The first to appear for replica was a representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1773	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my dear colleague Pernar, I didn't answer that debate when you mentioned our conversation and here what we were throwing at each other, there was no mention of Mr Vlahusic in that conversation. And also what you'd like to point out, only now in this presentation you've come to what you've actually wanted to say. So you wanted to say that our judiciary isn't working and that it's selective and that punishment for those who committed may be minor crimes, and they don't have a political background until some who committed a much greater crime responds. But that's the problem with the judiciary, that doesn't mean that not all those who have committed any crime that is not honorable should be allowed to run in the elections. I think it's something you can't stand behind. You said in your first presentation that you would allow both rapists in prison and bandits, and I don't know who not to run for office. I wouldn't. I think it's one message that we as a society must send. And what I agree with you is that if you did some work believing in some higher purpose to save maybe your own party, etc. I don't think you're some kind of scary criminal like the ones you talked about in your debate. And I believe that all those who have committed any crime should answer. And if I'm in politics, then I need to keep an eye on every move I make. I took good care of every move I made when I was deputy mayor, I take good care of every move I make now that I'm a representative. And I'm not going to let those who want to politically eliminate me eliminate me. And I do my job honestly and honestly. And I suggest you do if you want to be a revolutionary, if you want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1774	Comrade Thunderbolt, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1775	Here, I can finish the sentence. If you want to bring out here and call out and tell the truth maybe about what's going on in Croatian society that you should be careful that every move you make in your life is on the right line and that it can't happen to you that I can politically eliminate you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1776	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1777	So look at the policy thing in my senses is that I can be eliminated without a problem tomorrow. So I've been calling for resistance to conduct judgments, the other day I've been calling on people not to respect the HRT Act to cancel a TV subscription, etc. So I don't know, I got the power, etc., which I shouldn't have, I broke the law. We are not talking about this or it is not a matter of debate itself in terms of whether someone is guilty or not, but it is about people who are stuck in crime not to the knee, not to the waist, not to the elbow, but above the head that are the ones who lead the judiciary and those who decide who will be tried, who will not be tried and where such processes are simply led and directed, not with the aim of a real fight for Mr. Grmoj's integrity in politics, not with the aim of living in a better society and fairer, but with the aim of continuing to rule our country indefinitely and to break any political opposition. So that's the focus of what I'm saying. And that's like saying, it's like, let's say Adolf Hitler is judging some gardener who stole the rakes from the garden and then you say that gardener should have been careful why he shouldn't have stolen the rakes. Well, okay. But this is a hundred times already a monster, and it's clear that the meaning of the law is not the one Hitler would bring to elections. who would forbid a gardener from going to the polls in that. [[Intruder: Time.]] to have honest people elected in the elections, but to get rid of gardeners as political opposition. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1778	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1779	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Pernar, you've been saying a lot today, and what I finally realize is you want to point out that it's not a problem in people, it's a problem in the system, that's what I understand at the end of the whole story. We have a justice system where today's rich faces are guilty or not guilty of paying bail as much as they walk and who knows if they'll ever be convicted. We have a system where bound faces come in, repent and Gule potatoes and life goes on, and we have a system where ordinary faces come in and express themselves, condemned, solved, served and life goes on. We have a system in which the person who took and got the apartment is free, and it is tried by one who, as a poor bureaucrat, decided that the same person would get an apartment. And we're all being absolutely silly, and it's probably that person who was taking care of that apartment, some extreme altruistic person who wanted to risk herself and how else to get another apartment. And the other one who took the apartment isn't guilty, it's the one who took care of the apartment. Indeed the land of absurdity entirely. And who's to blame for everything? Justice. Absolutely the judiciary. And what my colleague Pernar is trying to say, we're opening Pandora's box and if we open it, dear God won't close it. We have examples from closer and further past that say all this, and every honor I've heard and understood. Thank you. I am deeply convinced that MOST, here I am ending, that MOST has really absolutely good intentions all over this story for everything I see and what I hear, but one proverb says that the road to hell is filled with good intentions. So here's my appeal, and I pray as you will, let's think about this part of that same law for another reading, because too many real things and facts and facts from yesterday, not since 10 years ago, it's been standing there saying that a law like this could get in our heads real fast. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1780	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1781	Yes, the SDP gentleman noticed what the MOST gentlemen understood, but constantly as sophistics, the less value is seen as an argument of greater value. I explained here that we're in a situation like Hitler holding a legal system in Germany goes to elections and fights the gardener who stole the predators and this one kills people in gas chambers but killing people in gas chambers is by law. For example, or I don't know, holding slaves, keeping slaves is by law. And now this Hitler says that whoever is convicted of stealing predators can't go, can't participate in the election and thus kicks out a gardener from an election race that has voter support and he explains so that, I needed those rakes at that point, etc., but Hitler says watch Mr. gardener, you should have thought about it before. You didn't get... I can say, I've been careful to do everything by law, so I've passed laws that have freed me from legal responsibilities like the HDZ radio laws that Sanader and HDZ have freed from any legal responsibility and at the same time here you see Mr. gardener you weren't wise and smart and you have to bear responsibility for your actions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have to go to jail, you can't participate in the election. This is the situation we unfortunately have in the country today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1782	Thank you. And a representative who also signed up for the Miro Bulj replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1783	Comrade Pernar, of course the judiciary is selective and, of course, the judiciary has made it possible for the state to be in this current situation. These are political elites regardless of party membership. The fact that with three votes on the election list will be at least a little less air-conditioned to a great leader who will quickly be credited to another leader when he falls. It is the continuity of political parties, it is not only in Croatia, it is most likely in more orderly states but less noticeable because the judiciary is independent in some other countries, in us is the absolute selectivity of those who did not have 10 kunas in their pocket, I have also been engaged in activistism, perhaps before you, myself and older, I have had a lot of these examples and raising criminal reports of those who have created their empires in the torments of Croatian people and through the Homeland War and through war profiting. Unfortunately, they today, have their own empires, they may also be sponsors of various political elites, and certainly needs in the judiciary of change, should be independent, unfortunately selectivity is enormous and this is a key problem. But to solve the problem we must really elective law allow as many people as possible who, I'm saying... It's the most important thing to me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Less air-conditioned big leaders. If we commit ourselves to this, if we focus our energy perhaps, but all of your suggestions that you have said through the second reading should be analysed by you and other colleagues, it should be analysed and included, and thank you to all those who have entered this debate and it is unfortunate that in such a law at this time we have an empty hall about a very important democratic, due to the development of democracy. And that's why we need to be firm and organized, and not just aggressively, you've been verticalally up on MOST, so you bite and you don't let go, you might as well be worse. So if I'm supposed to be worse and tighter than you are, five times, but that's not an interest. It is an interest to solve problems and fight together against these corruption forces that have destroyed the tissues of ordinary people and our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. I questioned an independent and sovereign Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1784	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1785	I thank Mr. Bull for his objective approach to the subject. And I would like to say that, I agree with the proposal to be three preferential votes but we can also give 14 preferential votes or seven no matter how many. But if people who apparently have political support are kicked out of the election race and are kicked out by those people who deal with crime, they're in crime up to the sky. And to them, they are caught by straw and come up with a process and eliminate their political opposition in such a way. We are gentlemen in such a situation that the greatest criminals can get rid of their political opposition through control of the judicial system and electoral law. If there is no order in the judiciary, no electoral law can be brought this new. So I'm calling on my MOST colleagues and you've got the Department of Justice, let's get the judiciary in line, let's get the gentlemen out of the HDZ in front of the courts, let's go judge them in front of the TV cameras. Well, yeah, let's change the laws so I can't go through any more and look for holes. So when we solve the problem of the judiciary, when the judiciary is impartial and equal to everyone, then let's get this bill passed, I'll be the first to raise my hand to him. But what he's trying to do is that the issue of corruption in justice and bias is not resolved and then some selective laws actually enable the authorities to liquidate the political opposition. I don't know if you MOST gentlemen are aware of what that means? I don't know if you're aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1786	Thank you. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1787	This proposal has shortcomings, of course, like everyone in that first reading. Obviously from the discussion it is visible that you will need in the second reading and to extract from these discussions details that should be classified i.e. well considered, of course, in the second reading and through amendments from parliamentary representatives, clubs, all together to reach the best solution. The fact as I said earlier that the voter can choose 3 people by name and last name is a major advance for democracy. Because the system so far and this one vote is also very important, but mostly there were people who had already had a pay phone like I did six months ago for the election of 2.5 thousand votes, these elections last I got 11,000 preferential votes. On my example, I can see that. But here we get two more votes. And the less there is... those two men who vote have their weight. Unfortunately, bowing down to the great leaders led to this situation, which I said earlier, so not only the judicial system but all the values in the Republic of Croatia have been disrupted and should be returned. And the electoral law and people in this House as an expression of will to a high home, the expression of the will of Croatian citizens there should be people who have received the legitimacy of voters to citizens. I think the problem of changing things is that criminal offenses are added, in fact criminal acts that could not be run at all. It's really good and it needs to be changed and it needs to be incorporated into the law. But if we don't solve the judiciary, if those who didn't have 10 kunas in their pocket today are the rulers of the Republic of Croatia. And then we wonder which way, if they got the lottery so they bought half the city someone then okay, and if I can't show the bills it's very simple, it can very easily change. But these are the changes that must come out of this home, out of the political will of the people, which is that vote for man. And here we have an opportunity to choose three men, us, each individual. Is none of us here married to this chair and, of course, attacks on the Most when they're directed and on this issue, they don't need to be directed so that we're afraid for a chair. This opens up the possibility for other people in their perspective to run for office in the field among people in a position to change things. I am personally disappointed with the judiciary both as a man and as a defender for not creating the Republic of Croatia that in these situations when we have 300 thousand unemployed, 300 thousand completed, when Croatia is building in 300 billion kunas of debt, we don't really know what it is that political elites are protecting themselves, so I won't say as just now as the face bears are mentioned but are protected. Indeed, isn't the judiciary able to solve the problem by problem and the state's attorney's office is the only one I personally gave over the last 4.5 years of criminal names and last name they absolutely don't react. And if they react, they react to superficial feedback. The selectivity is the worst judiciary. I'm no expert, but the fact is that someone who didn't have 10 kunas in their pocket to suddenly become the owner of all of Croatia, to be the boss, to have loose concerts, to have our villages destroyed, to emigrate young people for it. Without justice, there is no progress. Not only through the Electoral Law, but the judiciary must mean that it is the body where politics cannot influence as counterpart Pernar has always stressed that politics can't affect the judiciary so that someone is convicted so that he can't accidentally be on election lists or anything like that. But it's a long-term fight. So these discussions are all good, sometimes funny, sometimes boring, but they're good and positive. We need to get out of these discussions what's best. I, as an agent, expect all MPs to get involved in the second reading that all their amendments are given in the process through the debate and, of course, to find the best solution, and the best solution will be to change this law and I am particularly disappointed that each parliamentary mandate is not the same weight. He's anti-constitutional. To choose one of us here should be the same weight. We have 20 counties and the City of Zagreb so there would be no county constituency, and not 5 counties and they intersect in 25 places. It's all aimed at making sense that the more there are those who think less of themselves, the more like bosses or their political leaders. It is quite clear, because it is impossible to say that in Split the voters vote for their candidate and in Kašteli in the second house, so I cannot vote in the next house. They're the 9th constituency, this is the 10th constituency. And that's what's waiting for us. These two proposals here should be well considered, you should be involved and should ultimately accept the changes jointly for the better. They're not good but better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1788	I thank Representative Buljo. The first representative to report for the replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1789	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'd like to say that I've been looking at these judgments lately, and I've been thinking about a verdict that I've just been heard about on the facebook by a man who texted me says reminding them of the verdict "Dog Maddie". So "Dog Bear" is guilty because he barked loudly. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the scope of the Croatian judiciary. So, no range convicted is Nadan Vidosevic member of HDZ, no range confirmed by the verdict of Ivo Sanader, no range confirmed by the HDZ verdict as a criminal organisation. No, we're reading today about the verdict being made to the man who took pictures of that bear in Vidosevic's den. And now you'd say Mr. Grmoy, if he should have been careful, it's not the point of filming a bear, because that's why he's like a giveaway I don't know the secret to this, that. And so it's not a problem that it's easy that Vidosevic's trial isn't happening yet, and this man is already being blamed. So does this bear dog. What were his chances in front of the Croatian judiciary? How could he defend himself? Who gave it to him? Can they have a lawyer? Can I make any arguments? No, the Bear dog didn't stand a chance. Dear ladies and gentlemen, if I'm going to be judged by HDZ, I have a chance like the Bear dog, I don't have a better chance of believing me. And if the HDZ will judge me, it won't be because it's my fault, it'll be to eliminate me as a political opposition. That's what ladies and gentlemen are about. I repeat again, if we want this election law to be passed first, the problem of the judiciary must be solved. And if the judiciary were working, the news wouldn't be in the media if it were the bear dog, Mr. Petrov. I know it's funny, it's funny to me, too, but it's the Croatian judiciary. Gentlemen of the HDZ and you're funny, the Bear Dog is guilty, and you're not. You've been released by the court. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1790	Thank you. The next representative to report is representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1791	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Bull, you have asked a de facto question as to what was the first chicken or egg. Because you admit and say in the beginning that we have a problem with the judiciary, that our judiciary is not mature enough to enforce one of these laws, or the state is not mature enough to enforce one of these laws. And you're saying we need to reform the judiciary first. On the other hand, 11,000 votes that you like to boast that you've received preferentially, one large part of which you've won on the criticism of that same judiciary and all that they've been missing all these years. On concrete examples work in the Assembly as an activist and all along the way. And now with this bill of law, you would put something into your hands that no one knows how it's going to end like we're handing a gun to a child, so now get away from him whoever gets here because we have no idea what it's going to be, how it's going to be. What I realize at the end of this long day is that we in this assembly, at least what's left of us all agree that our judiciary, our country is far from being able to properly and properly implement one of these laws that I say again has absolutely good intentions. And I think in the end, it would be a really absurd situation to persist in that and to adopt a law that we're relatively confident of at least the way we think about ourselves that we're not able to implement it properly. So I would suggest once again to you as a colleague of the club who proposes such a law that in the second reading you, too, in this part, think as a proposer and all of us here together against these three preferential votes and everything else, I really don't mind. I even have to admit this morning when it all started and I didn't think about it this way, but here's a colleague who's persistently speaking and giving different examples really convinced me that this is a dangerous thing, a potentially dangerous thing because we see from all our past that it's not that simple. And whoever doesn't learn something from his past and what to say about him is different than that, you end up alone. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1792	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1793	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So do you really think he's working on a click one, two? When I'm opposed to voting against the ruling, and when I'm here, I'm going to vote for what I don't think is right. You can't personally click me. I will also vote on this case as before in the previous term only naturally in agreement with my club from the Independent Lists that I am proud of being on that list. I'll vote again on my conscience if I see anything wrong, of course. But I'll try to make it right, listen to all of you. And I'm grateful for everything you said. So, don't work on the click, when I'm in opposition one, when I'm in power to defend. I can personally say it and repeat it now a thousand times. Doesn't matter to me whether the president of the party is Bozo Petrov or someone else or third, and I like to listen, I like to talk, I like to communicate and I like to fight for what I need. Because of that, the judiciary is a problem. But we have to have legal changes to any kind of justice. We have to change things. Of course it's people who determine, but it's not an easy process because it's so networked, anchored, selective, huge, obvious. Well, that's what citizens see. We don't want to say it ten times here, it's visible. But with common forces, it doesn't matter from which political options what three is good to listen and try to change. Maybe this is good, what you're preferable to a voice I'm absolutely for. But this part where it's done, of course, needs to be heard, to see that it doesn't harm democratic processes. If he's okay and if he has to perfect himself then okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1794	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1795	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, here I am personally disappointed by everything that has happened in the Republic of Croatia and as a defender and as a man, so a big robbery has been done through privatisation. What we can't get in the way of with our minds, beware of the thugs who wrote it on the schedules or in any way that they planned through management loans or in any other way taking on social property at the time, turned it into private. They did so in accordance with the law, with a law that was passed over those years. So why am I saying that? It is also important today when we make laws that we bring them very precisely and that they cannot be abused. I was scared at one point mentioned here today by Mr. Cobankovic, if his verdict was to be annulled, he would have to glue the shell back to the potato. The rich can afford good lawyers, here's the bear dog he couldn't. But the judiciary can work and must act exclusively by law. And that's why it's very important. It's important tonight that we stayed here late to talk about it. We're, now I'm more confused which day was when we talked about the Law on Political Party Financing, and then I'm talking and again I'm telling you donations are one of the options of funding political parties. There's a big area for corruption. Who can donate to what amounts and how. And then if it happens that people who need to be elected here to the Croatian Parliament, people who will pass laws if they are paid in advance, then we certainly won't be making good laws. And just to tell you once more, other than the number of inhabitants there is territory, our Slavonia is empty, people are running away with their stomachs after bread. According to what you say, I agree with the weight of the MPs, but then Zagreb should have 100 MPs, and all of us are 50. It's not a good solution either. We can't just look at it like that. Our ends must survive, someone must represent them. Although there are fewer voters, someone has to represent them. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1796	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1797	I agree with you that political elites are being built if not in a way that the mutilated things that were absolutely brought about were what was being created for generations that simply spread through the night. These people were the ones who created it stayed on the streets and their children had to go to third countries. And that's a huge problem, and we're not going to talk about the banking system, the robbery, the monetary policy. It's all part of a process that, unfortunately, we won't even talk about telecommunications. What people have created is destroyed, it's simply unrecognizable. And these undeveloped parts, of course, should have their own representatives. They must have their own representatives but in a way to find the best model, which is in the future the best way to consider. The goal is certainly a different picture on the ground. There must have been 30 more people in Lika 30 years ago because I know that there was more in the Cetina region than today. So all this changes, and all your cycles need to be variable, but in order to change things at all, laws have to be proposed in order to talk at all. This proposal on preferences for 3 people for 3 candidates is a great idea. And someone might make a better suggestion, but things have to change and go better. Also, as for the crimes of those who will not be able to run, of course, and that should be heard, all your arguments should be seen, so I am sorry that this time has now been extended and this debate is not long at all, but this debate could be debated by dawn and should be a full assembly. But there is time, we have another reading and all the suggestions you make will of course be welcome here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1798	Thank you. And the last representative to report for the replica is Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1799	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bulj, I agree with you on the subject of your thesis that you should consider which crimes we will ban the candidates from. I personally think you would, for example. It was a shame for this Croatian Parliament to have a convicted rapist. But it would also be dangerous for the state budget to enter into this Parliament or the government or the ministry the man who stole 10 million kunas. I don't agree with some thesis here that the democratic right of a man to be chosen and to choose because by that same logic, I could say that he is democratically entitled to a convicted pedophile to work at school. It's his right. So it's his right that he has the right to work at school, if he served his time. So you should consider criminal acts but I think banning the political action of certain people who have committed certain crimes is good for this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1800	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1801	There must be no selectivity in criminal acts. But, of course, rapists and the most severe crimes that are disgusting, of course, that society only needs to be isolated. I'm no expert on voting rights, but I know that every voter, every citizen has the right to be elected and elected. That comes from the Constitution. And getting into those details of course against rapists and the most difficult acts should be personally that I can't run, myself. But yet the problem is the judiciary, so we immediately reject it, the judiciary if selectively condemns crimes or process them or not even process themselves, or because of some stew of potatoes, then after 100 million kuna, 10 million kunas 9 days of peeled potatoes if they've been peeled, maybe in front of the cameras, they're showing it. Because of these serious crimes, they can run for office after a certain period, it's not good. But you need to run processes, you need to look at this. The most severe crimes of course are not good but that's why I'm saying that the intensity of this is to start processes. This is a proposal to launch processes and discuss this. That's why we talked today in the Parliament, we had a debate, we have suggestions, we have listened to each other and of course all together should be included in one legal framework that will be passed through amendments in such a form. I think this should be a good solution, as far as this part of the Electoral Law is concerned, and the other parts of the Electoral Law which are also important should also go into fundamental changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1802	I thank Representative Buljo. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is MP Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1803	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the beginning of my debate, I will ask you again to try to protect us, not at the beginning of my debate, but as chairman of the principle of "presumption of innocence" to try to protect us from the parliamentary representatives, we are here to defend ourselves, but individual citizens who do not have such an opportunity, and label them in one very easy way without any basis for someone to experience some kind of personality or self-interest. It is your task and I ask you to do so through the institutes at your disposal when we talk about the Rules of Procedure. And don't be afraid because the fact that I see this a little bit at first went wrong and that it might go the wrong way if it doesn't react to that, I'm going to ask you to. And now I'm going to talk about this law because I think we're still a young Croatian democracy for 26 years and we've been through a lot of parliamentary elections in the past. So far, 13 times we have gone to parliamentary elections of various species since the 1990s, and this is the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament with the fact that we must recognize that this House was once home to the County House of the Parliament, so these choices were quite appropriate. The election models were different in the 1990s, the system we choose today began in 2000, 11 election units, the way it worked until 2015 was somewhat different... the parties had more opportunities. By amending the law in 2014 and the possibilities have changed slightly and certainly this bill that we are talking about today provides more opportunities for Croatian citizens to exercise their right and to choose the people they believe should sit in this House. The story of the preferential vote began what we heard today and heard several times in 2014 in a different way. It was not originally political by the party but the initiative "In the Name of the Family" tried to launch a referendum and named for the referendum "Let's Choose Representatives by Name and Last Name". The referendum, unfortunately, failed because at the very beginning it was a bit of a saying, in the wrong way. The first question was too long. It covered a number of smaller issues that emerged as a choice to support or not to support, for or against. Within that question, it was that we should adopt a special constitutional law, introduce three preferential votes, without a 10% threshold, bring out an electoral unit, reduce the threshold to 3%, collect three thousand signatures for an independent list, ban coaling, and I think it was too long and perhaps incomprehensible to many who then wanted to sign it. However, almost 380 thousand Croatian citizens were signed and it fell, of course, in the Constitutional Court, as was the case with all other attempts at the referendum because the SDP then often used such an opportunity to try to prevent a number of referendums that appeared as a possibility or wish of certain civil groups. The referendum was not held because it was found necessary for such a referendum to have 404 thousand 252 votes, according to the administration minister at the time, but later it proved that the voter's register. those who are of age who have the right to sign something is much smaller and amounted to three million 755 thousand 065 voters in the last elections in 2015, which means that the initiative then interpreted that they had been deceived and had collected enough i.e. It takes 10% of the total number of voters, but that story I say continues in a different way. In order for the SDP to somehow manage to amortise it a little and also a negative echo of such an initiative which unfortunately fell in the Constitutional Court, the law has changed and the current model with one preferential voice and a 10% threshold has been introduced, which we have tried twice a year and it is not bad. There are certain experiences that are both positive and negative with the fact that we have a similar system in elections for the European Parliament a little while ago. What are the effects of two electoral processes? Well it is obvious that a very small number of, of which I have also warned in my discussions at the time, MPs who can be elected in this way by a preferential vote, that there are still a large number of parliamentary MPs who enter from the list, meaning given their place on the list, but the number of mandates that individual lists in the electoral units obtained which appear to be said as a problem. The fact or statistics or what we can experience is that that basic rule of conduct of the preferential vote is that everyone is voting for their own within the smaller environments, within the regional environments and within the entire electoral units, always for their candidates who are known locally or regionally. We have a fact of inequality in terms of potential potential voters, small environments have the possibility of a thousand, large cities of 100,000 potential voters, and surely it's not fair, that I don't know someone from a small municipality with a thousand inhabitants without great visibility, especially if it's not national, there's just no chance of going past someone who comes from a big city. I think there's a very small number of people in this assembly who have entered from a small community, I think it's one or only two MPs. We have a problem with the fragmentation of the county, i.e. Some counties are located in two constituency units. Let's say I come from the Primorje-Gorski County as well as my colleague Klaric, he's at 7:00, I'm at 8:00. We do not have the potential of our own region to get those votes while, say, Istria has its own potential entirely. You have Zagreb, which shares its potential in 4 electoral units, is not an equal opportunity for all. Recognition within the region is not irrelevant. I'm really sorry that I can't get votes from, say, the Gorski Kotar or the town of Bakar or somewhere where you know you can get it, but you just don't get it because of the units that are so modest. That's what goes on in these elections. It shows the experience of two choices. Mostly nationalally recognizable people with media support especially highly visible means from the last election process if you are a member or part of the executive government, especially the minister, I think you have a great chance with the help of the media to achieve a decent or good result that will exceed 10%. Parliamentarians, there's something different about it, regardless of the activity, no matter what we do, but this job is something more difficult, yet it's 150 of us here, it's not even easy, I think of the chairman, let alone any citizen to remember I don't know 150 names or just a few of how interesting he is, how interesting they are to any citizen. A solution with three preferential votes and a 10% threshold may be a better solution for me. However, there is the possibility of a vote grouping within the same political groups or parties where it is clearly seen from the election to the vote as much as anyone gets votes. Let's say there's a possibility of an organised vote within the same party groups. That one county board says if it owns the whole county, we'll vote for those, too. If half of the county is in the next one, he does not have the potential to exceed with all his votes to either one of those three. I can give an example, if we don't know, in the Primorje-Gorski County we get 25 thousand votes, if Istria brings I don't know 12 or 13 it's hard that maybe within the same political option one goes by if some within the same political option is agreed who should go through it. So it will still be the primary and role of parties and it will not just stand back with a story of three votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1804	Before I allow replicas, I would just have to say briefly to the representative because he gave me the word at the beginning, neither fear nor approve. I would just remind one more MPs that when they entered this assembly, they took an oath saying they would stick to the Constitution, so they could read Article 28. The Constitution. And I would pray that they are truly as responsible and conscious as they promised, as they swore in such a way as to behave their duty and to be very responsible for what they say. But what I expect, I expect, at the moment of entering the business itself, and when they understand all their obligations, the responsibility of having talks, communication and all that is said in this assembly will be different. I hope so. The first person, or representative who reported for the replica, is representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1805	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague Boric. I'm surprised you're calling for the silence of one legally elected representative from the last place on the list. Namely, I understand that what Mr. Agent Pernar says irritates you but that's ultimately his job. He's an opposition. You, if you want to defend yourself against him, I suggest you defend yourself with arguments and convince your arguments voters that they no longer have to vote for the Living Wall. And I also want to tell you that the moment you started to silence your political opposition, you already signed your defeat in advance. Fight, don't give up without a fight. Say, state your arguments that what Mr. Pernar said about the judiciary or about these laws that are proposed today is wrong. Also when Mr. Chairman mentioned the Constitution I also want to remind you that freedom of speech is a constitutional category and that if there is a place where this constitutional category must live in its full sense, the perfect sense is the place of the Croatian Parliament and I ask you to take care of it. We've been here for nine hours and we're not having a hard time still arguing, so here, I don't know, I don't know what we should do. I guess we should just end it in half an hour, and that would be a democracy for you to measure the HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1806	Thank you. And before I allow a reply to the replica, distinguished MPs, of course there's freedom of speech, and that's why we're here and I support absolutely all the time the discussion and everyone has the right to their own opinion but freedom of speech doesn't mean you have the right to endanger someone else or to charge someone else until it's proven to be truly guilty. So we need to be careful at a moment as much as we use our freedom until it threatens another. And that's what the Constitution defined. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1807	A colleague of Bunjac, if you listened well to the presentation of his colleagues, he made claims about a person and said the name and last name – is a criminal. If that's the way we're gonna talk, let us go, too, but then unfortunately this House will look really bad, or in a bad light it will go towards you. Presumption of innocence, especially towards citizens who do not have access to this home and are pronounced their names and last names in my name, is not something I should have done as parliamentary representatives. This is being transmitted, this is going public. These people have their families and their children. And if you think you can label someone just because it's interesting to you or you think it's right or you're insinuating, I'll tell you that you didn't morally verticalize this society. That party of yours showed up after the election you got yourself involved in. When you get rid of those marifetteluks between you all there, then you set yourself up here and you say here we're clean, we're messiahs, and we know the right thing to do because you're trapped among yourselves in different conflicts. You have both reported to the DORH for non-use in the proper manner of the funds, money. You fell apart after all that. You don't even know your name, you don't have the name of the party, which party are you? A living wall? Is the wall Ivan Willibor Sincic living? The only option? What did you register? I don't know. I know which party I am. But from that position, meaning moral I'll tell you who it is and what it is, which is right and what it isn't. I think it's too low for this level that should be in this home that we call the High House of the Croatian People. And if we're not going to do that, if we're not going to warn each other, don't expect from Croatian citizens who are watching this on TV right now to understand and say these people deserve trust in some future time. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1808	The next representative to report for the replica is Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1809	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Boric may have fallen apart after the election but you have not been given for 26 years, so congratulations. Nothing went wrong, but it went the best way today and how it should only go wrong for you. And when you realized that your very party was a generator and a creator of most of the wonderful things you were just talking about today. It went wrong for you when you realized that most of these wonderful examples are directly related to your party or directly attached to the same party of yours. It went the wrong way for you, dear colleague Boric, when you became aware that the same party today is in a wonderful judicial process and you do not know how this process will be done. So I would advise you to watch out for the adoption of this law, I don't know exactly what the difference between a party of natural and legal persons is, and someone will already interpret it. And I say it didn't go wrong, unfortunately it went very right and unfortunately we came to the conclusion that we are in a very good situation when it comes to justice and everything else, and even politics. I say again, unfortunately, here is the insistence of my colleague Pernar. And unfortunately, when we came here in the evening to the conclusion that the judiciary wasn't in such a good situation, we realized and that maybe it's not the best time to pass a law like this, is we're not sure if we're going to be able to implement a law like this. And you fellow Boric, when you realized that it went wrong, then you decided that you would not deal with your ten-minute debate with the bad and positive repercussions of this law in his future, but you would be dealing with the SDP which was, which wasn't, election units or I don't know what. You missed your hearing. But as the people say, each one scratches exactly where it it itches, so you scratched tonight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1810	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1811	Thank you very much. Comrade Paric, I think I've talked through the whole debate in some way about what we've been through through election processes. Perhaps you've only remembered the first part or what happened to you that might come up with some kind of replica. As far as who went wrong, I think you in the SDP as you hoped you'd gone bad. And now you're on your way to get your ship into nine ports. Which is real even today, no one knows. What if you go wrong? And that will be a problem that many say, especially analysts, and fear for the future of SDP, no matter what I say, what can happen in some future. It will be a search for the identity of a party that is obviously a problem for another party here. Because it's really going to be hard for you to find him, given the number of candidates. But you, like everyone else, will have that right, and I'm surprised that you're not one of those or some 10, 11 candidates, so that you've provided a vision of that true identity and what that SDP should be. For HDZ you are not afraid because here in just a few years 6 times you have lost exactly to HDZ and HDZ is on the right track no matter what you think. And as for the presummation of innocence, I don't think any parliamentary representative can be either a prosecutor or a judge at the same time. However, some here try to do so. I just asked the chairman to try to reduce it to really lead the debate, I'm not defending anyone, whatever he's trying to say, let him say I don't mean verbally to get dirty with them at all in anything. I only warned that it is not correct and good education requires each of us to protect the dignity of every individual and individual citizen of this Republic who does not have this chance to publicly say it or not in this assembly no matter what he does and how he ends any proceedings or judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1812	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1813	Dear counterpart Boris, I remember when I spoke to Mijat Stanic from the highway union, he told me a lot about Calmeta, and one thing he said was that there is no one in his circle from people who are not accused of crime. He said his driver, and his bodyguard, and he listed this whole circle of those people who were infused in that money sucking. I guess the only one who's not to blame in their company is his dog. He may not be guilty of sucking up money. And I think how the judiciary works that before that dog would be convicted of his like dog Bear rather than be convicted of Mr. Calmeta. And another thing, when I was listening to your suggestions that, so watch out for this I thought for a moment that this is a hidden camera, means that HDZ is saying that those who have sinned against the law, those who have misused their powers to them should be forbidden to go to elections. If that were said by my colleague Mr. Sincic, I would say this is sincere, but when HDZ says such things then it's clear that this is no longer a circus as often implicated but this goes to the elements of the farce and satire. And Mr. Boris, believe me, what you did, what HDZ did to the Croatian state, what people are digging through garbage, what they're digging through containers, what they're asking for on the road. I don't know if you see it, dear. You're in power. You're in power, Mr. Boric. Are you aware of how many people are out of work? You are aware of how many people there are in the homeless shelters, seeing people in front of the lines behind the soup kitchen. And instead of being aware of all the crime you've committed, you're talking about some sort of presummation of innocence, and the only thing that saves you is this pacified justice system, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1814	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1815	Thank you very much. My colleague Pernar, I'm not being saved by this nakarad system and I have nothing wrong or unclean conscience for myself to enter this House. I told you you're neither judge nor prosecutor, at least you won't be with me who I invite you to be correct and not mention names doesn't mean you can't talk about what you want. However, if you've made a circus out of the Living Wall, I'm just asking that this House not become the same circus. Maybe that's how you talk to some of your bodies if they even exist, but there are Rules of Procedure and Rules here. Either we stick to them or we open Pandora's box. Because false representation or false titleship, painting with those you're supposed to be fighting, puppets in donations, strangers. Crucifixion of the party to unrecognizable, that you don't even know what your name is. Reports to the DORH for these same things say that you didn't morally verticalize this society. Whatever you do, however you fight, whatever policy you use to like Croatian citizens, you can't be you until you've solved it. When you do that, when you find out who you are and what you are, then you can touch others, and you can also see this assembly as your own playroom. You have two pay phones, two, five and ten minutes, you enjoy it I watch it, I see it, it's all fantastic to you. Your thoughts are falling, you're throwing them out. You don't even think about who you insulted or hurt and say that you are at the heart of the entire Croatian public. Well, you enjoy it, but I'm asking you to respect, as a parliamentary representative, that there are people you call, and I can't answer you just because they're not these. If that's a lot, then I won't do it anymore, and then you do whatever you think you're doing. If you're going to entertain still this people or be the first clown of this assembly or assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1816	Thank you. The next representative to answer the word is Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1817	Thank you, dear colleague Boric. By listening to you I noticed in your voice a certain regret that this referendum did not take place, and I remember that period and here I have from many portals that carried out HDZ's position on this referendum, I chose one. Therefore, the meeting of the Presidency of 4 September 2014 is against the referendum on the Electoral Law. The HDZ does not support the Conference "In the Name of the Family" because it believes that the amendments to the electoral system proposed by this association would destabilise the political system especially because it proposes lowering the electoral threshold of us 3% and banning the pre-election coalition. It is the position of the HDZ Presidency, which today, on that day, took place in Ogulin, and was transferred to the public by Damir Jelic, a member of the presidency, etc. etc. So that's one thing. So it doesn't go down in historical oblivion. And as for the number of necessary signatures, the Constitutional Court is from the Ministry of Administration when I led him to ask for certain information. He got that information from the Department of Administration. A document addressed to the Constitutional Court may be requested as a representative of the new minister. You could've been from the old minister, and you could've been from me when I was a minister. Because it's often thesis that I've deceived constitutional judges who have not been clear enough to understand that deception. Therefore, it is accurate that at that time the total number of voters was 4 million and 500 thousand, of which with residence in the Republic of Croatia 4 million, that the total number of adult inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia was 3 million and 400 thousand, and that the number included in the list of voters was 3 million and 700 thousand. Of those four numbers, the Constitutional Court decided on the one I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1818	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1819	Comrade Bauk, as you listened, you heard wrong. I merely cited the issue of “In the Name of the Family, ” which contained, and I said it was too extensive. It must have been on page A4. I think it would hardly care to be with everything that should be covered and the citizens would not just vote for voting only for a preferential vote, i.e. to elect representatives by name and last name, rather than requiring a whole series of other amendments and other laws to improve the electoral system. And then I said that the SDP reacted to this in a way that would make it impossible for me to make the referendum impossible, but that through the proposal to amend and supplement the Election Law a preferential vote and in some ways to hear applications from citizens who have signed today in some way in this way and we choose. What you did or how you did was evaluated by voters. You saw for yourself that you had to leave the post of minister of administration, some others came and we continue to build on our electoral legislation. This is one proposal we're going to discuss in another reading today, to fix it if we think we should. We all go on without great burdens because we think it contributes to even greater opportunities for Croatian citizens and may choose except for one and two additional candidates on the lists they consider to be here and represent their interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1820	Thank you. And the last representative to report for the replica Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1821	And here's the thing I really apologize for not saying and bringing up valuables like all the other MPs, because that would suggest that I'm insecure to be present in all places and places, to judge the intensities, to judge the will, to know. And as I do not wish to sue individually, I would return the debate to this level at which it should be and that I would only warn that this preferential vote is a good thing and like any entity that is in this reality that threatens to collapse in its own negative, which is that those who draw up lists from party presidents, party bodies make sure that their people are still on the list. So they don't care who wins favorably. On the other hand, we are threatened with the danger of moving into some kind of hyperreality, that we finally have lists that will lead to this debate from the Parliament disappearing. To become politically mature. But both, therefore, this negativity or hyper reality or some other negativity is not possible in democracy. Democracy should be kept on one side of the incursion of anarchy, which is the determination and negation of every legality, and we have heard such things today and on the other hand should also be kept as a negation of individual freedom. And what I suggest and what I see as a great potential in this bill of ours is that the parties release their dialogue potential, that in the second reading we put all that is good and that this law is also one basis for us finally working on raising for the democracy of citizenship and then we will not be afraid to give in to the unpredictable will of voters. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1822	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1823	I have to admit that sometimes quickly saying it seems a little bit and incomprehensible. I hope we can make it right through the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1824	Thank you. The representative who also reported for individual participation in the debate is representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1825	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think this first reading was quite fruitful. We've heard what the arguments are for and against. I would no longer look back on it, however, I must conclude in the end that in amendments to the Election Law, there should have been more courage to see here, in fact, no significant reform, and at least a guarantee of some better life for Croatian society over the next four years. There are no points here that could have improved this electoral law, such as lowering the electoral threshold to at least 3% if it comes to individual elections. So basically, if one party goes to the polls alone to allow the electoral threshold to be reduced so that it remains a 5% threshold for coalitions. Here we heard the accusations that the destruction and obstruction of the referendum were the blame of members of the SDP, however, it was in fact that both parties were complicatedly obstructing any amendments to the Election Law and neither the HDZ nor the SDP is responsible for changing the electoral law because it actually provides a false duopol, a false two-party which therefore goes hand in hand to the largest parties. How wrong is the Election Law to say the fact that 25% of Croatian voters vote by... The system is going to HDZ and SDP, which neither achieves the proportionality nor representation of the Croatian electoral body. [[You don't understand.]] So we have one concrete example from the last elections, you had a Smart Party that represented the curricular reform and which received 4% of the votes, performed alone without a coalition, and now their voters will be represented by HDZ, which has diametrically opposite views on curricular reform. Which shows in itself what HSS representative said that Croatian voters are simply sick and tired of going to the polls, and consequently we have a logical consequence of the growing turnout in the elections. I've got to look back on what Professor Schultz was saying. Lovrinovic, in fact, that amendments to the election law should go towards stimulating the election, that citizens should be encouraged to participate as much as possible. Here's one Flandri who scored 91% of the voters, and they took care of it. There are some other countries where care is being taken. Also, if there were changes to the Election Law, some burning topics of interest to the Croatian public should be discussed. Let's say the issue of diaspora voting. Here we have heard today from Bull's legislator that the right of minorities to have eight MPs should be discussed. In the Croatian Parliament, why should not all MPs act from national positions by representing all voters equally? There was also a reference to the possibility of a written vote. We already have a system of e-Citizens passing through and IDs. Why should it not be possible for citizens who do not want to or cannot travel to an electoral post not to vote by electronic means? So these are all questions that could have been opened, but they didn't open. Here we only have a thin, soft attempt to turn one preferential voice into three and add some heads of the Penal Code, it was announced by an emergency procedure, we now have a regular procedure, and then, as in some beautiful distant future, real changes will be made, but overall looking at the electoral law will not change it will continue to be a great weight on the Croatian political scene, and judging by what we heard today, it is possible that the electoral law will even worsen. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1826	Thank you. The replica I can see is gone, I'm sorry. Representative Miro Bulj, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1827	Mr. Bunjac, the democratic process doesn't have to go and you have to admit at least that there wasn't a MOST a few months ago, we were complicated, if they hadn't been to overstepped immorally if those people hadn't survived today they wouldn't have been in the Parliament. Yet these are democratic processes that a colleague of HSS told them. Yes, the people were fed up with the election, but we could've kept it all quiet in the Most, and we could've made it as easy as it was. The steps are still moved. You said eight national minorities you mentioned today you said that, today I mentioned it, you might have slept over I don't know or I don't remember it. Let me tell you, it's started neither will it end with you nor with the Most, you have parliamentary mandates, you have Rules of Procedure, you have laws, you have proposals. Propose, which is fine, I promise you that I will support, which is not to be I will help you be well, help if you want to respect. And only to criticize and believe that the world has begun with you, it cannot be so nor will it be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1828	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1829	Mr. Bulj, you've announced reforms of major reform that it will no longer work out, what you've submitted today to the amendments to the bill, you've been discussing it for a month. So it took you a month today to submit a legislative amendment that one preferential vote would turn into three preferential votes. At such a rate of change and reform, I suppose it will take one 200 years to change the electoral law because it is simply not a reform it is a simple change of a few words, it does not go into essence and this cannot be in any way a guarantee of a better life for Croatian citizens over the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1830	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1831	... acted incorrectly. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] There's only that much. Thank you. To record.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1832	I went to warn my colleague, but a colleague came out. This ends the debate. We will continue to work tomorrow at 10.00 hours and the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Local Elections is set. Thank you. Session interrupted at 19, 25 hours. I would temporarily stop the debate so that we can move to a vote on the amendment law and the addition of the Law on Elections to the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z.BR.11. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The debate is closed. I'd like to ask you esteemed colleagues just to determine the quorum. I'm finding the quorum is there. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion 1. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, 2nd all objections, proposals and opinions will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please engage in the vote. Thank you. I find that with 74 for, 29 abstentions and 7 against the accepted proposal, it is concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The Committee on the Constitution and the political system proposed a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to ask you for a little quiet. It is up to the Proposer to carry out consultations with the interested public in accordance with the Law on the right to access information until the final proposal of the law is drawn up. Does the proposing representative want to show himself about the proposal for a conclusion? A fellow Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1834	There's nothing we can do but agree and accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-20-0.u1835	I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. Please engage and let's vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes are 111 for, 6 abstentions, none against the conclusion reached in the text as proposed by the committee. Now I'd like to ask for a 20-minute break and then we'll proceed with the debate. It's 12.02 o'clock. Now we're going to the agenda point. Excuse me, Representative Hajdash Doncic. [[Intruder: Dear President of the Parliament.]]
