ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3851	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is what you said in this proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy and the appointment of a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. Namely, the decision to appoint members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 28 February 2014 to the Committee on Fiscal Policy as the representative of the Faculty of Economics, appointed the doctor of science Saša Drezgic, doctor of science. At the 23rd meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 17 May 2016, Mr Saša Drezgic was appointed Deputy Minister of Finance, while at the same time acting as Deputy Minister and Member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy is incompatible, and Mr Drezgic asked the Committee to dismiss him from membership in the Committee on Fiscal Policy. By decision of 6 June 2016, dean of the Faculty of Economics in Rijeka, Professor Dr. Scientie Heri Bezic suggested that a professor, Dr. Helena Blazic, be appointed as a member of the Committee instead of Mr. Drezgic. At the second session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget on 2 November 2016, it was unanimously found that Mr. Sasa Drezgic's resolution appointed a new member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, so from the quota of the representatives of the Faculty of Economics, Professor Dr. Scientia Helena Blazic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3852	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Unless there are any reports, I'm closing the hearing. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item is the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the appointment of a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. The Proposer is the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The debate is closed. First, I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that the majority of the votes in 118 for, 4 abstentions and 1 against the decision taken to resolve the members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy in the text as proposed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Secondly, it puts forward a vote on a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes of 118 are for, 5 abstentions and no votes against a decision on the appointment of a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy in the text, as proposed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3855	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The content of the 2015 Report is important in the fact that in 2015 it was only the third year of the current term of office of the Committee, but it was only the third year of the Commission's existence as a permanent, independent and independent state body. Therefore, the report on the one hand describes the way in which the Committee was established as an institution, the way in which human resources, technical, information and other logistics conditions of work were developed, and the way in which work processes were developed in each of the individual areas of work from the Commission's competence, and all in view of the circumstances that, starting from 2013 the members of the Committee have performed their duties in the Committee professionally. On the other hand, the report describes how the commission interpreted and applied certain institutes prescribed by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, all in the light of the purpose that this law seeks to achieve, and the positions of the Constitutional Court expressed in the decision of 7 November 2012 which abolished certain provisions of this law. In this respect, the 2015 report shall continue to report on the previous reports submitted by the Commission for 2013 and 2014, and shall make up a whole thereof. In addition to the presentation of the way in which the project of informing the overall work processes within which the Office Business Programme has been developed, designed precisely in accordance with the specific needs of the Commission, as well as the electronic form in which the report on the property status of officials is submitted. The report also lists a clear vision and plans of the Commission for further development. Namely, one of the main competences of the commission is to carry out the verification of the data from the reports submitted on the property of the officials. This report points out that information programmes were developed in 2015 on the basis of which the Commission database was merged with the databases available by different state bodies, all in order to create basic conditions for the implementation of systematic, regular checks on the property status of officials. The established system allows the Commission to access and retrieve certain data available by other state bodies such as the Tax Administration and others directly on the basis of the mutual cooperation protocols and developed IT solutions. I thus interpret that those data resulting from the obligation to pay taxes can be obtained, but not data on transactions in accounts that the Tax Administration can also take into account in the conduct of those procedures in the jurisdiction of the Tax Administration. This means that it is no longer necessary to provide individual written requests to different national authorities for the purpose of verifying the data contained in the property card, nor should it wait for the competent national authority to submit a retained reply at the request of the Commission. The established information system to which the internal processes of work are linked, in accordance with the tasks of each of the staff of the commission, has significantly relieved the working resources, thus strengthening and improving the capacity of the commission to truly achieve those objectives that it has set for it. I am using this opportunity to point out that despite all the investments made in the development of information and other tools needed to achieve the task of the Commission's competence, the Commission's budget from year to year has been further reduced. But even under such conditions, savings have been made. For example, for 2013, the budget plan was 5.5 million kuna, down to 3 million kuna and 900 thousand kuna, and only 86% were spent. For 2014, the budget plan was 5 million and 600 thousand kuna, and 4.5 million kuna was spent and 81%, respectively. The almost identical situation was repeated in 2015, so the budget was 5.5 million kuna, 4 million kuna and 400 thousand kuna were spent, so again, only 81%. I point to this because of further plans and the need for a commission to achieve new goals. However, although we have informationally linked the databases, direct data on the property of the officials with whom the other state bodies have in themselves is not sufficient to carry out a permanent, systematic check of all the reports submitted, because the analysis of the collected data depends on the complexity of each case and continues to require a lot of effort, or a lot of working hours of the staff of the commission. It is our idea to further invest in information programs designed algorithms that will carry out data comparisons themselves, and point to possible contradictions. This in no way means that information programs will replace or replace human work, but they will be a useful tool that will facilitate and speed up certain processes. The development of such further upgrades will require adequate appropriations in the budget. I therefore believe that the budget planning for 2017 should not be based on consumption from previous years, but on the real needs of the commission in line with the clearly described programmes, objectives and visions. On all occasions, the commission points out that the area of our work and competence lies in the preventive sphere of the fight against corruption in which the strengthening of the integrity of public officials stands out as a special objective. In the context of procedures under the responsibility of the commission, the integrity of the officials can only be maintained by correct and timely recognition of situations where private interest can come into conflict with public interest. Starting from the fact that the way in which officials conduct their public duties is a matter of general public interest and that officials are inescapably and consciously required to be subjected to a strict check of their words and actions by journalists and the public in carrying out the tasks of their work, the commission shall pay particular attention to the principles of action laid down in Article 5. Law to prevent conflicts of interest. The power to initiate and implement proceedings in order to determine conflicts of interest within the meaning of the definition set out in Article 2 of this Act and to determine the breach of the principle of action referred to in Article 5 of this Act shall be derived from the clear provisions of Article 30 which have been laid down by the powers of the Commission. Based on previous experience in the application of this law, and within those powers remaining after the Constitutional Court's decision of 7 November 2012, as well as in the light of the interpretation and reasoning of the Constitutional Court on the role and purpose of the Committee within the overall division and division of jurisdiction in the internal order, it remains to be concluded that respect for the ethical principles that officials commit to the best preventive mechanism that reduces corrupt risks and protects citizens' confidence in public authorities. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The law lays down an explicit obligation for officials to request an opinion from the Commission when in doubt whether action is in accordance with the principles of action. The Commission's obligation to give a reasoned opinion on such a request is also prescribed. During 2015, the Commission conducted a total of 120 procedures in which it gave 102 opinions and 18 indications. I would point out that, in all of this committee's call until the day of the defence of this report, the Commission gave a total of over 650 opinions. Opinions of the Commission as an institute which has a primary effect can only achieve their purpose if they are requested in due time, so before a particular situation has already ended and before the consequences of an unresolved conflict of interest arises. Otherwise, the Commission can no longer give an opinion because the official can no longer take actions that adequately manage the situation of a potential conflict of interest, so the rest remains to determine whether, in some situation which has already occurred, the official was in conflict with the interest and whether there has been a breach of the provisions of the law. It follows that the competence to give an opinion at the request of the officials and the competence to take decisions on conflict of interest shall be the person and the character of the same area of work. However, when establishing conflicts of interest and making decisions on violations of the law, it is important to distinguish those decisions in which only declares that in certain circumstances and which are specifically described in the decisions of the Committee that the officer is then in conflict of interest or that he has committed an infringement of the principle of action from those in which the law which can also be imposed is found to have been violated. A total of 44 public meetings were held in 2015, at which 55 decisions were taken to initiate the procedure, 94 decisions to initiate the procedure and 103 final decisions were taken. The total number of final decisions taken in 2015 and 6 final decisions, which were found to have no infringements of the law after the initiation of the procedure. The 11 decisions found that there was a breach of the principle of action of officials and 86 of the decisions found that there was a violation of the law providing for the possibility of imposing sanctions. It follows that in 2015, the number of decisions in which the Commission established infringements of ethical principles which cannot be imposed in accordance with the law on the rise of sanctions, compared with previous years, which is in line with the expected development of practices in the field of conflict of interest. I also point out that in 18 cases in which an infringement for which the law provides for the possibility to impose sanctions has been established, the sanctions are not imposed because at the time of the decision, more than 12 months have elapsed from the termination of the public duty or because, at the time of the final decision, it is not possible to execute the sanctions imposed by the Sanctions Commission. The shortcomings in the normative solution to the manner in which the sanctions are carried out by the Commission are also indicated in the reports previously submitted. A total of 359 thousand sanctions were imposed in the remaining cases in 2015. I would also point out that in this meeting of the Committee, the total amount of over 900 thousand kuna has been charged to the Commission today in all 365 completed procedures. In particular, by respecting the interpretations and views of administrative and other courts in the procedure of control of decisions taken by the Commission, it can be concluded that, despite the need to strengthen and improve the system of sanctioning the essence of the proceedings under the jurisdiction of the Commission, it still does not rest on the possibility of giving or executing a fine. The achievement of the expected and necessary results in the prevention of corruption depends on building the practice of handling officials in situations that could pose a corrupt risk. The fact that there is also a legitimate interest of the media and the public in general for the outcome and determination in the cases of the Commission's jurisdiction can be concluded that it is nevertheless more important that the decisions of the Commission create standards of conduct expected by officials, a certain code of good practice. Given that the Anti-Corruption Strategy and accompanying action plans come up with ideas that raising the level of ethics at all levels of state bodies is an important social priority, I conclude that only by building ethical standards and consistent compliance with built standards as well as good practices in the conduct of public duties can an effective preventive framework be established that reduces the possibility of corruption. By estimating everything mentioned in the 2015 Work Report on behalf of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, I express my hope that the Honorable Croatian Parliament will accept and adopt this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3856	I thank Dalia Oreshkovic. The first to report for the replica is representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3857	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mrs. Oreshković, first of all, I would like to thank the Commission as well as you as presidents of the Committee for doing your job both impartially and professionally despite the great pressures and policies and the media that we had the opportunity to see first and foremost in the past year. The role the commission plays is most often seen through that dimension relating to sanctioning the infringements. However, I think that even in this current part of the mandate you have shown in fact that your role may, among other things, be even greater in the work of restoring and maintaining citizens' trust in politicians and in the institutions of this country. Personally, I'd like to see the focus change and people start watching you right through that prism more than the prism of sanctioning. And here I can finally say that even from my own experience, while I was acting as assistant secretary of defense in many cases, you've actually helped me resolve the dilemmas that I've had in my dealings in a whole series of situations that could not only lead to me but also the Secretary of Defense in the past to actually violate the principles of good governance and practice. That's my comment, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3858	I thank Representative Glavasevic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If I don't open the discussion, then. The first of the club's representatives to report is the SDSS Representatives' Club and their representative, Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3859	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear members of the Committee for the Conflict of Interests, honourable MPs and MPs, here is the Committee for the Conflict of Interest in this composition, so as a professional body, it acts almost four years old and I think this is the third report. Raising the level of ethics in public life and politics is actually an important political and social priority. The exercise of a public function assumes that it is performed and executed for legitimate general objectives rather than for some personal benefit. In order to properly reflect this report, which is before us and in order to properly assess and evaluate the work of the commission contained in this report under the applicable law, it is necessary to know the social and historical context of the creation of the applicable law and the formation of the commission in this composition. If we take into account therefore the social context that people expect to have legitimate and credible authority and that politics is not a profession to live on but for which to live. We legally began to edit this matter in 2003 when the first law was passed, in time the matter became very important and important in the EU accession process. When the European Commission began to monitor this area regularly since 2002, regularly report Croatia's progress on this plan, where some progress has been identified, legislative regulation, institution formation, practice but the public then, the public, the media, the citizens have gone beyond their expectations and what has really been happening, which has in particular erupted through corruption, major corruption affairs. And so, before the accession negotiations ended, we got one by one stiff law. In some ways, it was passed by the EU dictatorship, but it arranged this matter, and we have essentially come to this conclusion that this commission that creates a very rich and valuable practice is now almost 4 years old. The Committee for Conflict Interest in its work, draws the media and the public's attention, which is good because the public is interested in what politicians are essentially on their wallpaper, whether they have sinned or not. The role of the media is very important and it is good that the time has shown and the media should have gotten used to essentially being taught that they will follow the conduct of the Committee for Conflict of Interest because, in my opinion, the first sessions are terrible media reports because the conflict of interest seemed more like a joint criminal enterprise than actually a conflict of interest. My view of conflict of interest is that this is a day-to-day and normal situation for every public official who can be prevented and resolved. It can be prevented if we have clear rules of conduct and we can resolve this by our public action, by removing the causes that led to such a situation. The report itself is broad, detailed and shows, in fact, that when a wide area of commission is carefully read, how much expertise it requires, how many different cases it deals with, and how in each of these cases it must actually define that fine line whether there is a conflict of interest or not, whether the law is broken or not. On the other hand, the Commission often needs the help of various state institutions where it seeks expertise in knowing the rules governing this area that is specific to some specific case. I personally follow the work of the commission, read their decisions very often, and evaluate their practice quite courageously. I think they've made quite a step in those areas that the law doesn't regulate, or it doesn't cover what is seen in this report. I also personally sometimes have a grudge against those decisions, sometimes I disagree, I think that they may have had to act differently or make a different decision, but what is certain is that every decision they make is clearly and extensively explained and is therefore visible, for which reasons such action has been made or why they have made such a decision. The report itself would set out five things that I find important and interesting highlighted in this debate. First of all, the report states that the decisions of the committee, which determine that by a certain course of action by a duly acting official, have violated the principles of public action, the principles of public duty laid down in Article 5 that those decisions actually create standards of conduct that are expected of officials. That's very brave. Decisions require great skill to be explained, because I believe it is a very slippery ground because Article 5 says public officials must act with honor, fair, conscientiously, responsibly, and impartially safeguard their own credibility and dignity of their duties, as well as citizens' trust. There's no way to say clear criteria and grading, and I believe it's actually easier for them now, actually, if they've built a practice, but sometimes very difficult. Because I'm saying there are no clear criteria of what it is sometimes, whether it's honorable or dishonest, although we all have a sense of honor and conscience and honesty. There's actually a lot of skill to explain. What is wrong with such decisions, which is not their fault that such decisions actually do not have instructions on the remedy because they do not prescribe sanctions. However, in its report, it states in essence the case law of the Administrative Court which states that, according to the Court of Justice’s assessment, this does not exclude the application of the Law on Administrative Disputes, i.e. the application of the general rule that a public legal authority must be subject to judicial protection against an individual act. And I think it's good to know that every official knows, because when he gets such a decision that he can request judicial control of such a decision exactly that if he didn't think he was right, he would have killed it, or that the court would have confirmed the practice of the Administrative Court in order to actually strengthen that practice, so that everyone else, and even that official who at that point injured it knew how to behave in the future. The second fact I would point out from this report is the decision, the decision statistics. It was stated that 103 decisions were made. What's interesting is the structure of those decisions. The most common violation of the law actually refers to membership in supervisory committees although it is in fact quite a clear legal obligation and are quite clear legal norms when possible, and when an official cannot be in supervisory committees, i.e. administrative bodies. Yet the statistics show actually 49, almost 50% of the decision refers to that one thing. I think it's actually more of a disregard for officials, necessity and perhaps even negligence than some intention of breaking the law. The second statistical category refers to the notification of the property status of officials. It's only 14 decisions. I also believe that, in most of these decisions, it is a lack of attention, rather than a deliberate violation of the law. Thirdly, what I would point out in this report is the case, so this report covers the period during which one happened, and we can say the unpleasant situation that was followed by a big media hall. Where the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has ruled out a public publication of certain data by officials on the Commission’s website, it has ordered the Commission to delete those data and take certain, or appropriate technical protection measures. By acting on the solution, the commission temporarily removed all property cards from public announcements, so as publicly published what led to large media halabuka. I don't know that the government ordered the move of property cards, anything. I think it may be a good school and the Committee as well as the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, because the Commission is an independent independent state body and the Agency is an independent independent body that corresponds only to the Croatian Assembly. And I think it's actually a lesson for all of us, all of our bodies that are independent and independent, in fact, that they might work better together, that is to say, to prevent situations like this from happening because in public, so this event is always misread and misrepresented. The fourth thing I would like to highlight from this report are some topics that the Commission has opened for the future, the dilemmas that appear in their work and proposals for possible legislative changes. This indicates examples from comparative practice that there are no rare examples of countries whose authorities in carrying out checks on the property cards submitted are able to request data from banks and other financial institutions. This is not according to the Constitutional Court's decision, but as the report states, in fact, the interested public becomes the most important controller of the truthfulness of the registration data in the property cards. In that direction, the report states one example of how the Tax Administration refused to comply with the Commission’s request to provide data that bear witness to the acquisition of income in individual bank accounts collected by the Tax Administration in the tax control procedure to determine whether the tax liability was, therefore, fulfilled or whether the tax was paid. In this Committee, which is interesting, therefore, it proposes to establish in future normative solutions an interinstitutional cooperation where the Tax Administration will explicitly include, in fact, deliver the results of tax oversight which are, therefore, also in relation to the evidence provided in the implementation of procedures from work and other bodies, which I find very interesting for the future especially when we are going to solve, what a legal proposal will be, and how we will discuss it here when the law or the bill comes to the Croatian Parliament, and it is an action plan and strategy for fighting corruption announced. Personally, I believe that the emphasis, and this is a fellow representative Glavasevic, has pointed out as far as I understand it, should be placed on the ethical treatment of officials, not only to prevent conflicts of interest, and this is exactly what I consider as important this code for MPs, which could be improved or possibly prevented from us as public officials from coming into the situation that we are in conflict of interest. Finally, he would point out one interest in the current practice of the Commission for Conflict of Interest, so the commission estimated that, for example, an increase in the salary of officials where the official did not gain a value greater than five thousand in the year in which the salary of the increase is not a significant change in the property status of officials, and therefore there is no obligation to report that change at the end of the year. As a tax reform has been announced which has not yet come to the constituency clubs and I do not know what it will look like, but it is possible that a certain circle of officials gets a salary increase of more than five thousand kunas at one year level, so I appeal from this speaker that all MPs, if this happens to us, and other public officials, should we make sure that if we cross that amount at the annual level, we have to report to the commission a change or an increase in salary. Finally, the report would point out that the Commission's report should in any case be commended and supported and should support their efforts to achieve the purpose of the law, which is that officials forget personal matters in the exercise of public duty and take care of the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3860	Thank you. There's no replica. The next club of representatives who reported for participation in the debate is the SDP's Club of Representatives and their representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3861	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored committee presidents, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Let's first become more aware of what this law is. This law can briefly describe what is allowed for citizens, not all are allowed by officials. What the gunmen do will not be punished, but if the same thing is done by officials, they will be punished. Of course, there should be a very careful, fine and surgical precise delay when some of the principles in this law are violated, and when they are not, when an action and under what circumstances is a conflict of interest, and when it is not or when an act is misused of the special rights which the official has and when it is not. The worst criteria politicians can take is when one of our own does it, then that's not the problem, and when one of these guys does it, that's the problem. It should also be made clear that certain media interpretations of certain cases before the commission, regardless of which sides they were not the most correct ones, were somewhat exaggerated and, in spite of the great effort of the commission to send the right picture of their work, they were able to send the wrong picture of their work. As regards the Commission's report on conflict of interest for 2015 itself, it is very detailed, very reasoned, reasoned and the SDP club will support the adoption of this report. Now let's get some concrete stuff. First, the Commission’s report shows that nearly half of the decisions were taken because of the breach of Article 14(1), i.e. because of the residence of officials in certain bodies where they did not have to stay under the law under that article and paragraph. The most important thing is the appointment of administrative councils, various state agencies, is the fact that the agencies in which the delirious body was working, and the worst part of it was not the violation of the law, but the basis of the government decision or any other body appointed by that official there, it was insufficiently careful or the government services were insufficiently careful to see that it was a violation in Article 14, and this happened again because it was relatively late in working with the commission in relation to the adoption of that law, and some people were already there and were not aware that it was not allowed because no one had previously taken account of it or could best be described in that syntax about the random state. So something happened by accident, and in the end, we realized it wasn't right. The second public matter that took place in 2015 is the inaugural conflict of the Personal Data Protection Agency with the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. So one thing happened was that an independent body that corresponds to the Croatian Parliament ordered something other than an independent body that corresponds to the Croatian Parliament and submitted a report, and the media found the government guilty. The government was not able to react differently but to define itself on one side in this conflict and to propose a solution to those who suggested the wrong thing in our opinion at the time. Of course, it was clear that both institutions could not be right at the same time as they advocate the diametric opposites and it is the Croatian Parliament that needs to resolve the dilemma. Sometimes because of the media presentation that I was talking about at the beginning, there is unwarranted pressure on the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. According to my assessment of this pressure, the commission successfully resists, makes decisions regardless of the pressure, most often I mean media, I don't mean so much political. And we could see that in this 2016 in one case, I think it's also the only session of the Commission directly transmitted by television. So it was actually shown how fluid and fine and incomprehensible this line is between something that is a violation of the principle of action and that is not a violation of the principle of action, I think that this decision of the Commission was divided, so it was not unanimous. Also, some restrictions in this law are freely possible, in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, I can freely say absurd, do not contribute to the objective of the law and were put into the Law in 2011 during the accession process of the Republic of Europe and I could freely say that little Brussels bureaucracy experimented in this law, not too much but something. The most obvious example is the restrictions of local officials that they can't be employed somewhere or that they can't have some, some function in a craft or about a year after they stop acting and at the same time exercise the right to pay for six months. So for the next six months, the state is limiting them something and it doesn't allow them any compensation for that restriction, so it's little and disproportionate, and I think a stronger question about the constitutionality of such a provision might lead to the conclusion that this restriction is disproportionately large. The appointment of a public institution official to a body controlled by another public institution is also questionable why it is in the law. In fact, I do not see that there is a conflict of public and private interest of the official, it is more about the conflict of two public interests that the official must manage successfully, because in that way every representative in the Assembly would, when discussing something with which he has more to do with than any other MPs, also be able to bring him into that position that his position is such that his exposure can doubt his credibility and impartiality and the Chamber is precisely defined by the Constitution as a place where he can speak freely and even with protection from prosecution for something you express in this Chamber and do not express outside this Chamber. Also, anything about criticism of legal solutions is usually used in situations of discussion of the Commission's report, although the commission has the least to do with it. It is the commission's duty to enforce the law passed by the Parliament. In this country, the government belongs to the Parliament, not to the Committee or courts that later control their decisions. And the clearer the provisions of the law are, the less discretionary space and the Commission and the courts to misread what the Croatian Parliament has decided. That's why I think this law needs a remont to be done based on so far's reports to the Commission, so far practice of simply writing things down more precisely because then it's easier for officials. So it's not pleasant when due to some questionable interpretation, vaguely written norms question your personal credibility and the legality of dealing with which you simply put yourself in an awkward situation that you have to answer to something that you have absolutely nothing to do with. But at the end of the day, no one forced us to be officials, we ran for office, or the party ran for office, so that's what the job described. It's not only good when this opposite side makes it even more potent for you, even though it's aware that it's wrong, but good and it's part of a political game. What was evaluated in this report here is detailed. The first presentations and presidents of the Committee and clubs are already being passed because of the replicas which may not be bad is that, or without a large number of replicas, which is not bad because it is a sign that we are still aware that the Commission has fulfilled our expectations and our purpose of existence, that decisions are made independently of which party is the official, that decisions are tried to be clearly explained and to be a guideline to other officials when they are in the same situation as how to act. The very fact that a growing number of officials are seeking the opinion of the Commission for some of their actions shows that officials are also aware of it. And I therefore think that, with certain adjustments to this law, with certain revisions of this law, the Commission will further fulfill and improve its role in the next period. This is also one of the topics where we talk to each other more or less in the same situation and we agree. Of course, it is not good for this debate to turn into something that could be called the union of officials, which is that we are now complaining to each other and that we find mutually understanding that some things in the law are badly set up and that in fact one of ours or yours has been punished for something that we otherwise think shouldn't be punishable under the provisions of this law because in some way it has a bad impact on the public perception of the work of officials because the public can react "see them again, when it comes to them, it is very easy to agree what should be changed to make them even better"; therefore, here is my appeal that this debate does not turn into it. In that sense, once again I want to say the SDP will support this report. The Commission’s assessment of the Commission’s practice as regards Article 13(1) is further highlighted. The Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and this refers to the definition of another public duty. There are certain duties in certain associations that can be considered public duties under this law. It is about those associations which, under the second law, have been granted public powers such as the Red Cross, the Croatian Autoclub or all national and county sports alliances that have public authority under the Sport Act. Very often there was a debate in the Parliament on a single representative who became president of the Croatian Basketball Union, whether he was in conflict of interest and as per Article 14. Laws on the prevention of conflicts of interest both under Articles 40 and some Sport Act. But in fact, the real reason for the incompatibility of that duty should be Article 13. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is therefore proposed to the Commission to review its practice, and probably also to the Croatian Parliament to warn and to show about it. Because I repeat, in this country, the power is still the Parliament, and it brings what it feels is to be implemented, and of course if it makes a mistake there is a Constitutional Court to correct it. But I don't see what that would be problematic if it were already problematic then let's say the assistant minister of the economy will be at the same time at the board of directors of some agency that's in the area of the Ministry of Economy. So both are public and not private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3862	I'd like to thank Agent Bauk. The first representative, or representative to report for the replica, is representative Sabina Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3863	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, you pointed out certain illogicalities defined by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, so you stated in fact one situation where local officials can find themselves very often at the end of their term of office because the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest actually prevents them from entering into a contract with any of the bodies, or legal persons with whom they came into contact during the conduct of that same duty. And on the other hand, there's this 6-month gap of salary rights and these other six months to a year when actually these officials are in a very narrow space when they start a new working relationship. However, I would remind you that we here in the Croatian Parliament two weeks ago seem to have changed the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State officials in a way that officials who spent less than a year in the position of officials will not be able to receive 6 months at the end of their duties, it is a lot and 6 months, half the salary than they will have to receive or have the right to receive 3 months full and 3 months half the salary. Which, in fact, brings these officials into a situation that they won't be able to make contracts for a year, and it's going to be a legal fissure. And I will repeat what I said and in the debate on the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials to reduce the rights of state officials but not to pass a law ad hoc where, for example, the proposed provisions of the law and which was adopted in the Croatian Parliament did not absolutely agree with the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. It's something we shouldn't be doing as a tall home.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3864	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3865	You are right about local officials, since 2017 in 5 months are local elections and that somewhere in the second round is the beginning of 6 which means that those who would lose the election would have the right by 12 months 2017. There's plenty of time to bring this bill into line with logic. So either to prescribe a year's salary right that I believe won't happen or to prescribe a ban for six months and not a year. That would be a logical solution. And then to include in that amendment all the officials to whom the law applies, that the norm is that they have these obstacles from the law for as long as they have the right to compensation. Well, then those who were up to what, six months, they don't even have the right to compensation right now, so they wouldn't have any obstacles. That would be the logical, proportionate and most just solution. So we agree that when a regulation is changed, it is necessary to see what other regulation is related to it because I am sure that this provision in a year in the Law of Conflict of Interest has just been introduced because of these other 6+6s that have been in other laws. Thus, it is an opportunity to change that and to change other restrictions and to make other restrictions, for example. The bet. So if someone can't do business with the city, then they can do business with the city firm. Well, then, it's one violation of the law on the ban on business with a local self-government unit, for example. Where's that mayor or the captain?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3866	I'd like to thank Agent Bauk. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3867	Thank you, President of the Parliament. You were telling your colleague Bauk that some things weren't fully prescribed. In such situations it is known to happen, probably not only in this institution, but in many other institutions and ministries, that an officer who handles an object because there is no prescribed law or by some rule method that needs to be done in some case, there is no practice long-term, simply an official does not want to take responsibility and make a precedent means the first time to make an innovation and make a decision and take responsibility. A lot of people don't want to do that. And then what are they doing? They're asking the boss. It happens that the boss does the same thing, doesn't want to take responsibility, and then he asks if the boss does the same thing, he doesn't want to take responsibility. And then he asks his boss, and that's usually some kind of minister or something, so a political official named this Parliament. And where it's not, so in detail the prescribed solution has been known to open up space for political intervention. So the decision, the court, will be decided by the Minister's will in that case by law and not by law. Let us remember at the end of the crisis that was in this House in the last term when the largest opposition party had according to the Rules of Procedure, so it is the right to propose the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. It was Ranko Ostojić then. However, the ruling majority refused to support such a proposal. There are two rights conflicting, the right of opposition to propose but also the right of the majority not to support such a proposal. It's just not precisely defined. And what would happen in the end if not for the ruling majority to give in? Maybe you wouldn't have been appointed president of that board at all. Therefore, it should be much more precise when it is done, so such regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3868	Thank you, Agent Sincic. The answer to the replica, Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3869	If you've followed me closely, and I believe you have, I've said a sentence that the clearer the provisions in the law that it's the less discretionary right of someone to decide. This applies to all other laws and to all officers who enforce the law. Of course, if an officer is brought in, if the officer is in a situation where, due to a vague legal provision, he does not know how to act, then all he has to do is either seek guidance from the ministry, and if he is working in this ministry to delegate his dilemma to his superior superior, who must in one way resolve that dilemma, which can resolve the dilemma so that if he is fully convinced that it is so that he tells the official what to do or to convene a wider body and consults define which is the right and the right solution. That's what a real boss would do, so he'd call a bigger body, a bigger number of people, exchange opinions. If everyone thinks the same thing, I guess that's it. If they have different opinions, he has a responsibility to say who is right or is afraid to resign. There's no other way to function. So the state has to work in some way. And if it is so problematic to propose an amendment or a proposal, then better definition in the law. As far as the opposition's rights are concerned, they are always defined by the parliamentary majority. If the parliamentary majority has passed that law to give the opposition, that is, the largest opposition party has the right to do so. If they think it's not a good thing to change the law and it's going to be legal again. Otherwise, any arbitration under the law is political arbitration because the law is not passed by a Parliament which is an explicit political body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3870	Thank you, Agent Bauku. The next club of representatives who reported for participation in the debate is the HDZ Representatives' Club and, on their behalf, Agent Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3871	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished members of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. I warmly welcome all of you distinguished colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. Yes, here we are, and this extensive report by the Commission on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which has indeed been made studioically, thoroughly, analyzed almost all the data and in some way through diagrams, and even lists that I think are even superfluous in the Commission's report itself because the media have been very well following them. From this position, the HDZ Club will support this report, which does not mean that we will not look at a part of this report in a critical or critical way, and one part of the Commission's work that has indeed worked impartially, independently and without the influence of politics. But I would not say that without the influence of other segments of Croatian society. I mean, first of all, the media. To begin with, it should be pointed out that this report for 2015, so here is colleague Bauk, in part, referred to the 2016 Report that we do not have here yet. We'll talk about him when it's turn, but believe me, me and my club had something to say and about that report from the 16th when the time came. I'll quote a part of the introduction. The law also provides for the definition of conflict of interest, in accordance with Article 2. The JCC shall become a conflict of interest where the private interests of officials are contrary to the public interest, and in particular where the private interest of the official affects his impartiality in the exercise of public duty or may be found to be fundamentally to the private interest of the official to influence his impartiality in the exercise of public duty or his personal interest may affect his impartiality in the exercise of public duty. The question is also raised here, and the Commission must also work in a way that is of greater public interest to any official. Here I don't think of making a final decision, but of timing putting certain items on the Committee's sessions and timing itself of the Committee's session. But I also agree that all that is unscheduled should indeed be revised in this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest as well as in a series of other segments through this report that we will see. For let us be aware that this commission contributes in many ways to the image of its officials by its deeds, by its announcements, and by its work. I do not mean by the decision itself but by the approach of the reasoning of the decision, the approach of the timing session before I know not of any choice of local, parliamentary, any other, and by putting the items of the individual to those sessions themselves really contributes to the image of individual officials. In fact, the public's interest is not equal at the time of the election campaign of any kind, local, parliamentary and public interest in some way I would say such a deaf time because it is simply so. Such is the public, such are the media, and then the commission can simply influence that certain selective items are just timing, it puts the session and the decision is ultimately a rule of law, but it puts them at a session, let's say, at that time when the public interest is increased. Yes, these statistics showed that the work of the commission was very intense in 2015. A total of 358 items, and 118 are completed, all 44 sessions were here as the public says. I am interested in whether any session has been closed to the public, which is not mentioned here in the case and, of course, they are numbered on the statistical basis of which the laws are these 94 which have been made and where the offence is. A colleague of the Bauk has already said almost half of them refer to Article 14 mostly paragraph 1 and these are appointments of administrative, supervisory boards and boards which I think my colleague, Bauk, in this segment, was really right because there very often happens that people are not familiar with either the position or the legal frameworks of those who proposed them might even have politically insisted on being there, and eventually they came to this. An 805 report on the property status of officials was received in 2015. I think we really need to simplify the procedure here. Here we are these days in one situation where officials who had a break of three, five days had to deliver two property cards. One for the end of the term of office, 8 calls on the parliament and three days later, a new property card for the start of the new term of the 9th Assembly. It's an eclastane example that applies here to us who are here, but it's probably still got such remarks. Therefore, it is really necessary to simplify the procedure because in some ways it would be much easier for the Commission to do the same. The fact is that this law of ours as much as we want to admit it or not is one of the most transparent but also one of the most radical laws within the EU. I think this law is not because of it, it is commendable that he is one of the most transparent, and one of the most radical, but should be changed for some other unsaid things because on several occasions here we have seen that the commission has asked for some opinions and even the commission itself has remained in the dilemma. And on the other hand, some of the banalities that my colleague Bauk was talking about appeared at the same committee sessions that they themselves were closing those cases very quickly. Furthermore, the commission also needs what comes as an anonymous application. It would be correct to simply remain anonymous until the commission makes the final decision. Because if an anonymous application is then both the public and the media are crucifying a person, crucifying a person, and an anonymous application can be made by anyone, either way, or perhaps without any argument and for no reason whatsoever. Therefore, these anonymous applications must be made available to the public and to the general public at the time when the commission makes the final decision on that application. And not that during just until the application itself was delivered to the commission. I'll briefly just look back on this technical part, commending it's financial savings, I think it's 2015. 5.5 million kunas predicted 150 thousand kunas less than in 2014, and yet you did business with almost a million kunas and 46 thousand kunas in savings, which is commendable. But given the change in information means that I really think it should, and you've already announced it, so I'm not going to do it in particular, although I've thought about it a few words, but when you've already announced the work, I think it's really not always good if the funds and they don't spend it because then it goes to the public in a way that something has not been done. So notice to the commission, spend the funds that you have planned in your budget because it's not savings, it's what you're meant to do. Only if the means of representation or anything else are left are commendable. We heard through your report that the Constitutional Court made a decision somewhere in November 2012 regarding data protection, and in 2015, you had a fight on February 16th, and I would say so with the Personal Data Protection Agency on the one hand and you on the other hand, which was also talked about by my colleague, Bauk, and nothing special, but I am interested in that vacuum space that was happening with these data that you were not or should not have published by the Constitutional Court. On the side of what I think about it, but it's still a period of almost two years. In this part of there is one provision where up to 30 thousand kuna additional value or movable property does not need to be reported. It's undefined that it's with, say, a used or old car that's not worth 30 thousand kunas because it's supposed to be reported according to that form of yours, but on the other hand in the coalition, with this provision of up to 30 thousand kunas, the movable property doesn't have to be reported, so it's also necessary to define and resolve it through the amendments to the law, and there's probably still such cases, for me this moment only that segment has come to mind. And at the end of the day, there's a lot more to it, this article 13 where you say it's asking for an opinion, I still think maybe it's your misreading in the law itself because, yes, but that's what my colleague Bauk was saying, so there's no other public duty, so I'm not going to waste my time on it because here's the time running out, and I have two, three other things that are very important. And that is, you suggest that at a local level, let's say the president of municipal or city councils or their deputies also enter the system of officials. I don't think that's a very good suggestion, because in some way, O.K., maybe big cities, and I agree, but when you take some small municipalities from about 500, 700 or 1000 residents where there's a citizen of that community, let's say to the president of the municipal council, and that he's an official really seems bizarre to me. So I can also say deputy chiefs in these smaller municipalities who are now in the system of officials but I think it's really unnecessary. And I'm interested in something else, and that's what it is with a very high-ranking official in the government or a local administration who insists on solving certain cases for reasons that he may have some kind of personal interest in solving cases with citizens, in solving when it comes to the ministry towards local communities, and also to entrepreneurs. And this silence by the administration towards solving certain cases of party interest in the process, I repeat whether natural persons, citizens of a particular local community, whether local communities in relation to state institutions, whether entrepreneurs, their subject is not resolved, who knows what is behind it, might subsequently be determined that there is indeed something in the background that is in the interest of those who make such a decision and for these reasons has not made a decision. And he didn't enter into a conflict of interest, but he didn't make a decision. I still think he's done a lot more damage than someone who may have misfulfilled the application form or someone who's there something, dropped an hour, a car or I don't know what else but someone who hasn't made such a decision and perhaps in a material sense refers to millions of values that that speed of his decision, making their decision is to the benefit of the local community, of a natural person or of an entrepreneur. And that segment in the new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest should be installed in any case. And finally, here you are, I said, it may have been unnecessary, but here you have done it really pedantically and qualityly, the report on all the items and the individual, very interesting. And when the media was tracking it all together, when all the expensive media followed it turned out to be media right over there from HDZ, they're all from order in conflict of interest, they're all like this, they're all like that. And take a good analysis of your colleagues dearly in this case, at the very end of this table that the Commission has brought, and you will see that according to that colleague Pernar, us and the Russian 300 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3872	I'd like to thank Agent Boban. The first representative to report for the replica is Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3873	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Boban, I would only take the opportunity to state in the debate on this report several illogicalities that I think as representatives and the Government should probably take, correct, to facilitate the position of representatives who are acting in this capacity in a very short time. In this 9th session of the Parliament, the Parliament was established on 14 October, the government was appointed on 19 October. All five days, individual representatives who changed technical ministers were representatives here in the Croatian Parliament and many of them did not benefit from any rights stemming from the Law on the Rights and Obligations of MPs in the Croatian Parliament but were loaded on their backs with huge obligations. So I can give an example of one of our colleagues who was a representative for 5 days and before that was a member of the board of directors in the company, and after taking an oath on the same day, within five days of being a representative, she had to complete the same day, she had to fill out the property card for the application of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests and now 6 months, or only 5 days after she was a representative and I say no rights could be used now for a year can't be returned to the position of a member of the administration she acted for many years. So I think we need to think about how and how to simplify this, whether it is possible for the technical ministers from the establishment of the session to, until the appointment of the Government to act as representatives or in some other way to resolve it because to a number of our colleagues and colleagues who were only five days in charge of this law and this procedure made it difficult to function normally after returning from the Parliament and who were 5 days in the normal life that they were carrying out before they became MPs, for just 5 days I say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3874	I'd like to thank Agent Bačić. Replication response, Agent Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3875	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić that there are indeed these anomalies, and through the debate I said should simplify the procedure first and foremost because here I will tell you, on my own example, I have a break from the parliamentary mandate to the parliamentary term, that is, six days as far as it was. I had to fill two cards, one, then in six days, the other. It's really inappropriate. And if I didn't, I'm here right now in the benches, but here's a colleague you mentioned, there's probably more of those, and in the past, there was a colleague I remember from this other side of the SDP who, by the end of the behavior of the government at the moment, were in position for a day, two or three, and eventually, they were crucified by all the media, all the journalists, and it's just not good. That is why I said that our law is indeed one of the most rigid and on the other hand certain things such as decision making, responsible duties, responsible officials are not treated or better said not to make a decision by the responsible official are not treated as a conflict of interest and much, much greater damage to both the local community and the individual and the entrepreneur and the state itself. Therefore, it is necessary to change some things, to loosen up, to loosen up flexiblely in this sense that you have spoken about, and some other things that really go to the harm of the citizens should be further clarified and disallowed, given that we have a transparent and clear commission, tomorrow some other people will sit in this or that commission and not allow the commission to consider whether this is in conflict of interest or not because some things are truly in the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3876	I'd like to thank Agent Boban. The next rep representative is MP Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3877	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Boban, I have three remarks on your hearing. So I'll start at the end. You have cited one example of an official who, because of his own interest, does not actually solve cases. I must warn you, therefore, if there is such awareness and if this person does so, then it is called abuse of position and authority and not conflict of interest. And the case is not for this commission, it's for the Jump. The second observation refers to your comment on how the fact is more implications about how the commission sometimes gave under pressure from the media or some other social factors chose timing and calculated with the timing of the sessions. However, the Commission has prescribed deadlines to discuss certain matters. And so within those deadlines, I think it's kind of pointless to talk about calculatoring or timing. The deadlines are deadlines, they are very clear and in this sense I actually think in Croatia are every little election, so last year was an election, in the next four years we will have several election cycles. So I just think that in that sense maybe your comment was too high. And finally, at the very beginning of your debate, you said that the commission affected the image of officials. However, that is where I must correct you. Officials influence their image in public not commission. So you can, your case and your subject is found in the committee's debate for several possible reasons if you ask for an opinion then it's okay, or if you are, I think anyone can happen to be found at the committee's hearing. But first of all, we ourselves influence as officials on our image, the commission with our image has absolutely nothing to do with it, and that is something that we must act to raise awareness of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3878	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3879	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Glavasevic, in turn. Not making decisions so what does USKOK have to do if, say, the assistant minister, here you are replicating, so I'm going to say as an example he didn't make any kind of decision that he was supposed to make for the interest of a particular party? He's just not, he's stalling by making that decision. What's that got to do with it? He didn't commit any violations, obviously he was silenced by the administration. So, I think of such objects and they have a strong impact on a number of segments in life in Croatia. Secondly, you were talking about timing and this work, so I didn't, this is a report for 2015 but here's when my colleague Bauk mentioned it in part 2016 and in the context of yours. Remember the case Mr. Bauk was talking about? It was resolved very quickly in a month, it was over, the commission made a decision and it went on as it went. One other subject at the end of 6 months and in 2016 Mr. Parliament representative of your club Milanović was registered to the commission, declared to the commission, that decision was not made today. The Commission's explanation was we'll bring it in half September, they're vacationing now anyway. It was known that the election was there on September 11th and we'll bring it in half September. So today it happened that Milanovic is not the authorities and the commission's decisions are not even today. Here's so much for that timing. And the third image, I told them about the image in the context of anonymous reports. So, some officials, me, you, anyone who comes to the board of anonymous applications and it's already being picked up tomorrow by all the media, everyone's saying Bojan did it, Blaženko did it because there was an anonymous application. I just said as a suggestion that an anonymous application be made until the commission makes a final decision should not go public. When the commission makes a final decision whatever she is, she needs to go public. So that my image, your image, or anyone else, would not be compromised by anonymous reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3880	I'd like to thank Agent Boban. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3881	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, so here I am going to step up a little bit what Mr. Boban said about some things concerning the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest and this report. First of all, praise for the report itself. I think it's very exhaustive and correct. But here's the majority of the debates, and on behalf of the clubs, they've been led, in essence, by the law itself, by the law that's been quite unspeakable to me. It also says that I think Mr. Bauk said he was requested, a large number of opinions were requested, interpretations meant by officials who are not sure whether they are in conflict of interest or not on some matter. And I think that's why the law should be done and some things should be defined. For example, I think that a second public duty should be absolutely defined, as Article 3 lists who are the officials, but Article 13 states that no other public duty should be exercised. This second public duty by the Commission has so far been widely interpreted and has not been clearly defined and most of us for some time and does not know that it may be in some conflict of interest because it performs some duty without even knowing that the Commission considers it a second public duty. So I think that in some kind of a correction of the law, and that perhaps only the Commission could, before that, define in its own decision what is the second public duty. And one more thing like this because I have a little time left. I fully agree that vice presidents, presidents of municipal councils should not be public officials, or deputy commissioners, because they receive such small and symbolic compensations, and they are given enormous restrictions. And that's why a large number of people are just not going to go into that local policy Because they only have problems because of it, and it ruins our entire political body's quality. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3882	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3883	Yes, thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I was saying that. Now imagine in the context here you have, at the very end of the replica, said one deputy municipal chief or I don't know the vice-president of the municipal council, a person who now, according to this new proposal of the Commission, would be the official of what this situation would be and that man can't really perform another public duty, would really be violated by the end of the credibility of officials at the local level, reducing the very potential of political action at local, municipal and city levels and so on, so I will tell the citizens honestly and limit their choice for the head of their local administration because in this way people will really not run or deal with this work if they have so many obstacles and if they have so many problems, and I would say without any reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3884	Thank you, Agent Boban. The representative who also signed up for the replica is representative Marko Vesligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3885	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, Mr. Honorable Representative Boban, your debate has asked me to report as I come from the local self-government myself. I don't think it makes any sense, nor does it make any sense for the presidents of the city council, their even vice presidents to become officials. Because I'm asking what's next? Shall we move on to city halls or municipal councilmen? Are we gonna keep professionalizing these people? So what are we going to finance them from? From these poor budgets that have local self-government especially in the northern part of Croatia. What I would like to look back here is also the mayors and deputy mayors or mayors themselves in small municipalities that are primarily volunteers. I think we should also make a distinction between volunteering and doing the job itself. Because what are we going to get? We will come to the point that in smaller local units we will no longer be able to find people who will run for these functions at all. So that's something that's threatening us. I'll mention one example. For example, you have an example of a craftsman. You know that in small local areas, these are people who are usually either political parties or some independent lists, actually people suggest that they enter these public duties because they believe that with some kind of experience and with their reputation they can help that community or city develop. However, they may not be craftsmen, but they may be employed in the craft. So, regardless of what they're doing as employees, even the carriers aren't allowed to actually report to some kind of public service, it means jobs in that local unit. But he can, for example, report to work at a local school the founder of the county. Or he could even be the headmaster of, say, that school that's the founder of the county. We even had a situation that we had a high school director in Krapina-Zagorje County who was also mayor. And what I'd end up with. I would only finish if Croatia was not only Zagreb, Split or Rijeka but Croatia is my Pregrada, Nedelisce, Lepoglava, Trilj. So the smaller environments where your Solin is very difficult to find in which you find people who will accept these public duties, and if we professionalize them, I'm afraid If they have to be professionals, I'm afraid we won't have them at all. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3886	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3887	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I'm glad you agree, but I kind of put it on mathematically. Imagine now in your compartment or somewhere else, that after the term of office you have the president of the municipal council, and then his two deputies, so you have the chief, and then his two deputies. And that now that you're elected, that community must be financed by the next 6 plus 6 people. Ha, I don't know if the whole budget would be enough. And in that context, my proposal went. Thank you for your support, it is very important and clear to us from local level why this is not acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3888	Thank you, Agent Boban. The next club of MPs who signed up for participation is the Club of HNS and HSU representatives and their representative, Commissioner Bernarda Topolko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3889	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable and respected members of the committee, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives. I will begin to point out that the HNS Club, HSU, will support this report by the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest because it was made very professionally, professionally and in detail, it is more to praise that we had from the report to notice that the commission was set up in 2013, that a lot of effort was made to put this commission on its feet and that it was beginning to work on the basis of the law. But what I would like to look back on in this report is that the commission should also be able to function and prevent corruption. Since the Commission cannot possibly be responsible for the success of the fight against corruption in this composition as it is now operating, we have seen that there are eight professionals and 13 employees, I believe that this institution should be extended to make sure that the scope of their action should be increased, as I said by hiring new professionals and that information could be submitted in general on all those cases considered to be corruption of today's era. We are all aware that even today there is a saying to be made by a companion who is from some ancient times that we as politicians should certainly remove from this normally by our actions, by his inauguration in the public, and also by the Commission in the extended composition. I would refer to Article 3. Law to prevent conflicts of interest where state officials are cited. I think that article should be expanded. It should be extended, for example, under paragraph 14 states that the Secretary General of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is a state official, the Secretary of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is a state official and as far as we know, however, what about judges? Where are they? We also see that this article lists both mayors and mayors, but where are the directors of institutions that are county or town founders, which generally have a good part of them more budgets than the poor county or one city? Where are the members of the Supervisory Board, members of the board of directors, members of the boards of directors, presidents of the boards of directors? We all know at least to this day that they are political people and that they are political functions. I think that they should also submit property cards, that it should be as far as we've heard because there is a problem between the tax and the functioning committee, should be harmonised as soon as possible. We are all witnessing the introduction of an OIB or a personal identification number where it has been interpreted that the OIB introduces it for a simple reason in order for everything to be transparent, so that at any time each member and each employee can be seen, and in certain cases there is a major disproportionateity between the assets and between the receipts. It means that the commission should be associated with the IRS as soon as possible so that it can monitor that data. Here's what I think we should do as soon as possible, I think, like I said, expand the Commission on conflict of interest. We as a club of HNS and HSU will support this report for the reason I said so. And this is from me, I don't think I have to use as much of my time as I can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3890	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one is those distinguished representatives of Martha Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3891	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, I can agree that the commission is a very important body, that its function is in some way the aim of the commission's work and this law is to restore the dignity of politicians, control their work and honesty, but in this enlargement that you are proposing to the commission, I think it is necessary to be careful in the sense that the commission is not a law enforcement body. To give the Commission too much authority, there will be a overlap between the State Attorney's Office's action with the objective of prosecution, and then you have this Tax Administration which oversees this lack of income of assets, so the commission still needs to be given great powers, but in the sense that this is transparency and ethics in the work of state officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3892	They will respond to the distinguished representative Bernarda Topolko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3893	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, you're right, fellow Members, I totally agree with your remark, but I do believe that, in any case, that part of Article 3 of the officials who would agree should hand over the property cards. Namely, it's about property cards. If anything else psychologically affects individuals and individuals, they act differently than when they don't have to hand over a card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3894	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Felak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3895	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, so here's a colleague from the SDP club who took part in my replica because I fully agree that it should be very careful to approach the extension of Article 3 and the collection of officials because I think that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests should not be a body that takes over the role of the tax administration, the DORH, the USKOK and some other bodies that, by their authority, need to carry out certain things. Let me just mention to the judges how familiar I am with my colleagues, only under the second law, but they are subject to them. As regards members of the Boards of Supervisory Boards, this should be very careful, as in most institutions or companies whose owners are particularly smaller units of local self-government compensation in such administrative councils are either symbolic or do not exist at all. I can agree with you to file a property card but these people should not be placed in the status of officials and then applied to them a complete law on preventing conflicts of interest because then they come into huge problems, what we have already spoken before and in replicas and what Mr. Boban was saying, and so did Mr. Bauk. And most people, high-quality people, and here's the gentleman from the SDP club, most high-quality people then simply won't accept such duties because for some kind of journal they might get once a month or once in two months out of 150 kuna, they certainly won't be placed in the position that the subject of the Commission's work is if someone reports it doesn't work in accordance with the Law of Conflict of Interest. Therefore, there is a need to be very careful and well-evaluate who should be placed in the ranks of officials and who must then and truly respect both ethical things and all other things if they are to remain out of the reach of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3896	Thank you. Bernarda Topolko will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3897	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Representative, this debate of yours has only prompted and confirmed the need to amend the Law of Conflict of Interest. Before, Mrs. Sabina had talked about some things that needed to be changed. I'm saying, I made my proposals. I believe that if someone decides to act politically, if they decide to join the board of directors, the board of directors, must be able and ready to submit the property card, then the law should be laid down differently as far as those 6+6 or 3+3, as far as the proposal is concerned, it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3898	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Darko Milinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3899	Thank you very much. What you were saying, I had a meeting just yesterday and I mentioned that here is the director of the local-level institutions, municipal, urban and county levels, too, to give, deliver their data to the commission or if we talk about them, then we can also mention the directors of public companies. We are state officials who, because of the possible influence we have to and subject to this law, and the directors of public enterprises or directors of institutions that have far, far, far and far, far more influence than we have parliamentary representatives on, and also political developments in the Republic of Croatia that have hundreds of millions and billions of kuna through investments do not need to do that. But the question is, do we really have to go this far? Do we have to and can we be more Catholic than the Pope? Because look, I was shopping yesterday, now irrelevantly what, mostly somewhere around 5,000 thousand is kuna that something I bought and was discounting 10%, so I came into the situation and we through this law did actually, put ourselves in some kind of status, haunted beasts, it's 10%, it's about 550 kuna, I came into a situation if I ask the Committee of Conflict Interest whether I can buy it because 550 kuna is a discount and I can't take more than 500 kuna to God's gift. So with that very carefully, with that very And with this extension of powers, the extension of powers you spoke of. [[Intruder academicist Željko Reiner: And with a microphone very careful.]] Because the Commission is probably and only faced with the fact that through many anonymous tips it is trying to politicise this commission and be a place where some decisions will be made and of course there is repercusion as we have recently seen in some political decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3900	Thank you very much. Now we would move on to the next Club of Representatives and this is the Most on behalf of which the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3901	Here, thank you. I welcome you all. I'm in a bit of an awkward situation because almost all the content that I've planned to expose is already exposed, and since I deeply believe that repetition is not a mother of knowledge but a sure sign of oblivion I don't want to feed exactly that kind of structure of oblivion then I'm going to shorten this exhibit so that you who want to listen to you can structure attention. And I'll make more comments. So this report of the Committee for Decision-Making on Conflict of Interest shows at least three dimensions of action, clearly and the consequences of such action and the reception of those persons who have decided to act in a public capacity and we are calling them officials because of the language economy. So this commission as a collective body has its own legal, political and ethical basis, and thus also legal, political and ethical manifesto. This law is not questionable. It is a commission that cares about consistent law enforcement and that of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. This political dimension is not so clear and not direct. Because the political dimension of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts is the interest it consists of that, thanks to their work, they promote and support those policies that outside of this historic world as a man of the world's own, will leave all those who care primarily about their individual or personal interest, whose behaviour of public office serves only to achieve non-obsessive material goods. So this political dimension is extremely important to me because this historical world, and if we're going to make a difference to a natural world that simply is or, for example, when it tells me that I'm a cat among cats, or a tree among trees would be part of the world, but since I have a consciousness, then I have to arrange this historic world. This historic world is being arranged with some kind of desire. Without intensity and without desire, there is no historical world. One such desire takes place and arises under the circumstances of this home. And now that we're talking about what the Commission is doing to decide on a conflict of interest, it certainly does because it encourages some positive policies to create a new historical world. In this home, we had opportunities to discuss the subject of financial, economic, talk about the HBOR, talk about reports, about actions, about executive laws, and now that if I transfer one such picture from this world to this world that should be ethical, which should be politically used only one image as there are armed or unarmed financial resources, it would be good for us to start thinking in this home that there are armed and unarmed times. Armed time is a time that creates an extra value. It's that time that will create positive laws, which will not be discriminated against, that will lead to us creating a human and humane world, that we will no longer seek a break here because of the desecration of cemeteries, that we will no longer seek a break from the people of our homes because of some minor debts. And on the other hand, the unarmed world is a world where officials use their public office to get some material goods. This commission is, since it prevents such a dimension of unarmed time. I believe that we should also help him and that in what was yesterday on the Assembly Committee of Justice or today what you said in your discussions to initiate and change the law and to all those institutes, all those norms that have proved to be too far-fetched examples of the transfer institute or these management rights. Because he's proven extremely dubious. To change such institutes, to choke them because we don't create new political and legal problems and all to create some kind of psychological feeling that we're fighting corruption. The fight against corruption is not done by bad political and legal solutions. That's what we need to deal with. This Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, as you have seen from all previous exposures, has achieved financial savings even in those circumstances where the budget is continuously reduced. Financial savings are primarily achieved because of a different organisation of work, the introduction of information technologies, and because any human work can be made effective independently of financial resources. Because financial resources and the struggle for financial resources are exactly leading to the development of corrupt consciousness and the criminal mind. And that's why I'm glad that this Committee of Decision on Conflict of Interest has managed to prove and develop its nature and its manifestive form to prove that it has an even better effect in reduced budgets. And by that I see that you have also achieved this anthropological novelty of anti-corruption and law that should be in all dimensions of anti-corruption. Yesterday, I suggested that, as far as possible, we depersonalize this submission of the official's financial report. Yes, since information technologies have already been introduced, and since there is a machine-reading data that many of these data that are from the tax administration, from land books, that all this data is being published by automation, that still our narrative influence or the possibility of creating some basis for our future corruption to eradicate. I gave one example, and that's that we can now make in the card that we have 150, 200, 300 thousand kunas of savings that are not armed. It's a savings that's stored somewhere in the house. And I quote it in the card not with intent because I really have those means, but I quote them in the card because I expect that in my debt activity, in an inappropriate way, I'm going to get that kind of funding. That this possibility of a corrupt criminal mind should certainly be eradicated, and the corrupt mind is eradicated by a professional level, i.e. By passing laws, the Committee that knows how to do its job, this report can conclude that this is exactly the kind of commission we have, but also the theoretical mind that will succeed in preventing and predicting all such activities. Furthermore, in order to achieve full maturity, we should also develop certain anti-corruption models and these expression models, anti-corruption communication models, because in these two, three weeks as far as I am in the Assembly is constantly intertwined, a figure of altering the victim and the perpetrator. In what way? For example, the word most often mentioned here is crime. The current set accuses the former of crime, the former accuses the former or current one of crime. There's always someone who's the perpetrator and someone who's the victim, and nothing changes. It's just criminal if we're going to talk, criminally, such an economy of such dialogue has been established. Because I think that changing this figure of perpetrators and victims should leave and set up laws that will make all citizens feel safe and that all citizens are safe. One such discourse is present here when, for example, it is called for voters to choose naively. I don't think and have any illusions that it's possible that voters are naive. But voter naivety is possible. But what must not be naive is that we must not be naive to laws and must not be naive to committees. It can be freely naive to someone who will represent anarchist models and more pseudo-anarchistic in the example of the Parliament, while at the same time not being aware that he has fully institutionalized himself because he calls on the Rules of Procedure, works perfectly in the environment of the Assembly, establishes this discourse and thus becomes a pseudo-anarchist. That model is a naive model and he's fine. But I repeat what must not be naive is our laws and it is the Commission and I can happily conclude that we have a report that is not naive, which is professional and that we have a Committee that knows how to do its job. And since I promised I wouldn't be long, I have to break up too, so I wouldn't be naive. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3902	Thank you very much. There are several replicas on your exhibit. The first is the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Vučetić fully agrees with your final assessment that we have a report in front of us that is not naive, which is very detailed and precise and that we have a Committee to decide on a conflict of interest that is professional. However, I noticed during your presentation, and it often happens to me that we are constantly slipping between the two names of the Committee, so somehow we know that the commission is called the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, and on the other hand, what is said is not a language but a right, and you and I and I also believe most of us are talking about the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Why? I think it's logical, and I think that this commission should be called the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, because if we bring it down on this legal basis, or legal level across the judgment court, and most of it deals with such cases on whether or not a conflict of interest has been committed, then we actually derrogate its key role, which is that it should be a preventive anti-corruption body which, among other things, through its own jurisprudence should lead to education that there is no conflict of interest. So here's my point on your exposure. I really believe that the rights of the Commission are to prevent conflicts of interest, means to prevent any of the officials from making decisions of public interest led by private interest in their conduct of public duty. So that's the real point and protect the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest here's just that's one brief remark on your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3904	Thank you. The honourable representative Marko Vučetic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3905	So I completely agree, I was deliberately talking about the Committee's decision to conflict of interest and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, bearing in mind that this committee has acted both proactively and preventively, that it has organised workshops and familiarity with local self-government units at regional level exactly how to prevent and prevent this corrupt action. In addition, unless I am wrong at the initiative GRECO 2015, the Croatian Parliament should have adopted the Ethics Code. We didn't bring it. So that's our failure. And this, by that look, was the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest and the Committee for Prevention. And since we haven't brought that code, it's on our side. So you need to educate us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3906	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3907	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vučetic, at the end of your presentation, you said that you heard the most common word of crime here in the Parliament. I have to tell you that, unfortunately, that's true and we are the biggest culprits, we here within the Parliament, so I'd say all the officials. To collect certain political points, then label each other with such and such terms. At the very end of my presentation, I said here in this report almost on the 30 pages of the last tax statement that all the commission was doing here. Believe me, I've been here in the second session here as Parliamentarian, for many years acting as mayor, but a very small number of people here I personally know. So they're not from a high political mile to call it that, there's a certain number, and that's why I finally said here that unargumented labelling of each other is precisely such an impression here in the assembly, but also in the media of officials. And that's why I finally said it would be good to analyze all of our clubs amongst our own people who are on this list here, so you'll see that it really stands for my "Nas and Russian 300 million".
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3908	Thank you. The honourable representative Marko Vučetic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3909	I really believe that this notion of crime when used in the assembly has become almost a technical term of no importance whatsoever. That's what we need to take care of. We need each other because we've taken that very form of hypermoralization that I was talking about. Why? I personally believe that morality is a personal area and that a man who is truly moral will primarily correct his own actions and his own moral expression and will not bring moral judgments. As soon as someone leaves the position of carrying out and making moral judgments about another, I feel that he has already sinned at least on this standard of morality. On the other hand, what you said, the commission... it led all its decisions and led to its activities and that is why we need to be congratulated. And what we need to understand in this House is that the level of our debate, the way we're going to argue and how we're going to think about legal solutions leads to this and how society is going to be. If our mode of action is active, without content let us use words that have no lasting meaning at all, then instead of designing the world, we are devising this world. And I'm not surprised that in this demented world, people are leaving us, they're not leaving because of the lack of it, the absence of perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3910	Thank you. And the last replica is Irena Petrijevcanin-Vukasnović's respected MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed colleague, a very interesting debate that offered me a replica because it's on the verge of a philosophical debate, and it's actually connected to the report, which is in any case positive is one positive step away from the usual discussions here. I agree with you that sometimes recited by six mothers studiorum that when it comes to knowledge is worth it, but when it comes to Parliament unfortunately this is counterproductive. But you mentioned the information and the information system more than once, I remember last year when the report was also talked about the information and the information system and I would really be interested, and I believe that we can see where you came from, whether it was compared to the previous report because I didn't see it, so correct me if I'm wrong, whether there were more concrete steps, in which direction it went, and whether maybe we'll have to the next report then we'll actually have this information system because I'm also prone to simplifying and not more complicated. And as my colleague Boban said, it's not good for us to file two reports in this House during this interregne period, and transparency is something that we all stand for, and I think this information system is more important than we might be currently aware of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3912	Thank you. The honourable representative Marko Vučetic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3913	I agree, too, and I can share your interest, it becomes mine. I'm curious about where the committee has come to inform us about this, but to keep us informed of all those models that would lead to more effective work of the commission, and these models are in charge of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3914	Thank you. We will now move on to individual debates and the first to hear from the distinguished representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3915	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honored Members, i.e. representatives of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. I think that this topic is always grateful for a parliamentary debate and we have witnessed over the past years that they have been a little bit more alive than it is today because the public interest certainly exists, as soon as word or two words of conflict of interest are mentioned. I think that this report in its whole over a hundred pages, comprehensively, described all the actions that have taken place, listed all the decisions that have been made and on that side I think it is very acceptable. In fact, in the framework of the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, we have taken the obligation to create an institutional framework for the fight against corruption and one of these institutional frameworks is certainly the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest in whose jurisdiction they are, I will now say, unfortunately, only officials from local, regional to state level. The very definition of conflict of interest is a very short conflict of personal interest on one side and public interest on the other. In countries of strong democracy, such cases are considered to be too much of a risk of private overcoming public or corruption itself. And for that reason, such an institution, this body is certainly necessary for the Republic of Croatia. In 2015, 358 items were opened, 44 sessions were held. From the very report, it is clear that never again sessions and obviously never fewer cases so far. I don't know what it's like for 2016. 55 decisions on non-starting were taken, 94 decisions to initiate the procedure were taken, 103 final decisions were taken, 102 reasons of opinion and 19 reasons of evidence were given, sanctions of 359 thousand kuna were imposed, and we see a certain decline in the sense of punishment in 2015. As far as I'm concerned, I think in 2016 it's a much, much larger amount, if I've followed it well. The largest number of cases, it is evident from the report, is certainly related to the membership of officials in the boards of directors and supervisory boards from local to state-owned enterprises. Since 15.1.2015 reports have been submitted in electronic form and I think it is a major step in relation to what we had until 2015. A total of 805 reports were submitted in 2015 and certain deficiencies were identified in 239 after administrative verification and likely referred to the re-fulfilment of these forms. What is interesting certainly in this report is Chapter 4 which speaks of removing data from public publication on the Commission's website because it is clear to all of us that in 2015, the famous affair of taking property cards off the website appeared. from the Internet. How did it all go? Obviously it went wrong, a letter came from the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, an observation of the scope of public data involving marital status, the number of children, the amount of pay, the credit responsibilities available to every citizen of this dear world, and, of course, that the Agency informed the Commission in accordance with its legal obligations to decide on a conflict of interest that this should be changed a little. to remove one part of that data to be invisible. But apparently in a series of awkwardness, ignorance, media have come up with some information and are informing the public that these property cards are no longer on the Internet. And what causes this is the rage of citizens who do not turn to the Agency or the Committee, but directly to the officials themselves. Officials are almost beaten to shame. They're hiding something, they're rich, they're hiding their wealth, they're hiding their property, they don't want anyone to see it, they don't want them all to know. We have one silence, a few days and officials who openly negotiate here at the meeting in the Croatian Parliament. The result of these mutual bickerings is visible today and unfortunately exists and that is that we have leaders, personal data protection agencies that the government replaced on 7.5.2015 means it, meaning the Government of Zoran Milanovic and these same leaders today are the leading people of that agency. What else is going on? There are conflicts within these ruling options and about these people, at that time they really go out with all kinds of information, so you could put them in that section of dirty laundry. However, these people are still running the agency today. The parliament has discussed this point about the shift of these people, but it has never made a decision to change these people, i.e. to be someone else. After that, the government, most of them, responded, and they amended the law and pulled out officials, i.e. Parliaments like those who are allowed to publish everything we have to report today. What did we expect from the commission? Well, at least a certain apology to the officials because we were not involved in the process, it was a discrepancy between the two bodies, the state administration, i.e. independent bodies which interpreted the letters, their own decisions and laws differently and officials were the ones who remained... I think there was little then my perception of the commission itself as one deity that was sinless. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, some cases later showed that this may not be the case. In some situations, wishes or interpretations have gone too far before your commission itself, I say, I have also been shown by the Constitutional Court, with its decision of 7.11.2012, because it was intended to protect a certain part of the data and not to create, in my opinion, a body that would lead to certain levels of investigation at least when it comes to the property of officials. I'm concerned about a few of the things that are described here, one opinion or interpretation that you gave as a commission that says that on the basis of Article 13. A law on conflict of interest, which may be the mayor, the mayor, a volunteer, can enter into the working relationship of the director of the tourist community with volunteering in the post of chief. He can also receive compensation as a volunteer and pay as a director of the tourist community. I think it's a wrong or poor interpretation, given that this official who is the mayor or the mayor is also the president of the tourist community who needs to oversee the work of the director of the tourist community, so it doesn't seem logical to me at all that at that moment overseeing himself as the director of the tourist community is not in any conflict of interest, means that he can do whatever he wants and that he is in a small municipality practically God. I don't think this opinion is very good, and I think it should be corrected, given that they are functioned and chaired by tourist communities and they manage the work of the directors of the tourist community. Secondly, the point is, you have stated that you are initiating actions based on your own knowledge. Here I'd be interested in what portals have to be published to get you started on your own knowledge, from the media, because I don't think that's what you're doing on phone calls, so we know where we need to publish something. Because the fact is that there was a lot, and even in this assembly of officials and in the previous one who had been publicly exposed and accused practically in the media that they were in conflict of interest. However, the Committee of Conflict of Interest, for deciding on a conflict of interest, did not initiate the proceedings, we can then enter into the sphere of the divine, so this is what we will or will not do. You'll explain that to us. Because I have examples that here's one MP was obviously in conflict of interest and it was out there, but against him they didn't initiate any procedures to determine whether he was or wasn't in conflict of interest. And what we've heard today, directors of public companies. They're nowhere to be found, they're like a bunch of hips, they have nothing, they don't decide anything, and no one can stop them. Just one example, the assistant director of HEP has a co-ownership company with his brother who deals with the installation of divisors and company traffic in a year grew from 400 to a million or 5 million kuna. It's no conflict of interest, they can do whatever they want. The main culprits are sitting in this hall right here. We're obviously the highest ones who can influence anything. Although I say we often argue about whether we accept this at all or not, and there's all of our importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3916	Thank you very much. There are several replicas on your exhibit. She is the first to be the respected representative of Damir Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3917	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3918	I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3919	Maybe I heard wrong, I'm sorry. counterpart Boris, everyone in their reports praised the work of the Commission for deciding on a conflict of interest and this report. And I also commend us from the HSS agree that this body is doing its job well and that we should especially commend that part of preventive and educational. I've been involved in some local and regional workshops myself, and I think it's a good practice. But we are asked to give the commission working conditions and see here in the report that they have also taken over some jobs and that therefore no financial resources are provided. So now that we see that on the one hand they have financial savings in business, and the report says they didn't have enough money to hire a man to run financial and planning activities. I think it's up to us to make it right so that this body can do all the tasks that are in his jurisdiction on its own and, of course, be even more transparent and efficient. And this part regarding our obligations to this body has already been mentioned by the adoption of an ethical code but also the definition of the list of officials. Because we should define who these are officials who have an obligation to report their work to the commission and spread to local officials has already been mentioned. I don't think it's good, especially when the presidents of municipal councils, vice presidents of symbolic compensation or volunteer work. I don't think the expansion of the obligation on them is good, and on the other hand they are missing from this list already mentioned directors of public companies, agencies and the like. And what we do not have in the end is information and what the public expects and what I would personally like to see if you, as a commission, have referred to the competent state authorities who can verify whether a certain official has acquired property in a mandate that does not belong to the receipts he has had and whether in that direction what has been taken. Because if we just keep it in words, then we didn't do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3920	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3921	Thank you very much. Well, here's the thing about employment itself and lack of conditions, I think the commission has certain conditions that I can do, that's what they claim and themselves. As for this one employee, if there was a million kuna savings left, there were likely opportunities and redistributions during the year to create space for the one to be employed if it was missing. So I'm sure the money wasn't there then was obviously a problem. And as for that part of the definition of government officials, he is defined by law, who are government officials, and they do so and do their part. However, it is always the moral part or the questionable part that bothers all of us that are mostly said by the presidents of public or directors of public enterprises who are seen and alone through certain affairs certainly in many conflicts of interest and all of this is going through and politics appoints them, politics solves them, governments set them up, the Assembly on some votes, etc. We accept their reports, and we're all in some kind of circle that we obviously have to disintegrate in the next period. We need to untangle that knot in a way that is truly right and just and morale at one level that we expect for all alike. If that's the case, a lot of disputes will disappear in our thinking whether the commission is doing good or not, or why we've punished someone or why we haven't or missed someone through our fingers and we don't even know why or why the commission explains it to us on a few levels and we ask ourselves if that's just the way it is?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3922	Thank you. The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3923	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, you've well-separated a particular problem related to the media. I see it as a problem in which the circle is never closed to the end. The provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest are clear, which states that, in fact, those who explicitly state that the Commission requires the tax data to be verified for certain activities. And then what happens? There is a situation that you have that the media is having doubts about certain corrupt activities. This ends on the commission, the commission requests the tax but the tax does not close the circle but the tax administration refuses to act in accordance with the demanding commission to provide information that testifies to the acquisition of income in individual bank accounts. So, of course the commission isn't a DORH, the commission doesn't have that kind of jurisdiction, but this circle isn't closed either. Either the circle will be closed by amending the law or, therefore, there's some vague limit to where the borders of the commission go up and where they actually start, it's clear to me what the DORH is doing, it's clear to all of us but I think this is a reverse methodology that some thing ends up in the media that it's troublesome the commission and that then the tax simply one that could actually demystify the whole thing and that case refuses to manifest itself. I think it's possible for a tax administration that, otherwise, by the way, the most informed, excuse me, and for me happens lapus linguae, an institution. How is it possible for her to double this commission request? Here's what I'm curious about, among other things, the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3924	The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3925	Thank you very much. Well, I think it's pretty much explained in one piece why the IRS doesn't want to give information. But you mentioned that part of the media and how it's decided, i.e. who we're going to process and who we're not. And it bothers me because we really don't know where this thing should be published, considering that you, too, as head of the commission in five or six months, have made one statement that you're going to make a decision in one case that's been publicly exposed, but here's already a while and there's no such decision. I've checked those decisions gone. Why isn't there? Did the commission not manage to process the whole subject whether it was so complex that it could not come to these truths, because for some things I said very quickly resolved decisions, made decisions and some had to leave their functions etc. That's why. I think it's in everyone's best interests and being equal to everyone. Because if there has to be something just on some portal and we're going to appreciate it, then we'd like to know that we know where. If there's some information on the portal for, say, two years, that one official in the conflict of interest was and that he doesn't want to apply himself, and neither do I. Why would I report it in terms of that, and you say you have that authority, why doesn't he talk? You understand? It is a question of how far our opportunities go and what the commission wants to achieve. Because if we run then we start against everyone who was media out there. I know it's not easy to catch hundreds of portals, but some of the cases that are being exploited are then processed to the end and we know it. Because it's just your selectivity and your divine role that I'm talking about then that you're determining this is what we're going to do, and we're not going to do this. I don't think that's fair then.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3926	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3927	Thank you very much. Yes, it's very important to supplement the list of officials who should be on this because we have a number of agencies, many offices and administrations. Here's an example. There was an HBOR yesterday. I don't even know how many employees there are and what their salaries are. All I know is that they have large management severances, because we have public institutions and at the state level how many agencies, offices, administrations, and they're self-initiatively doing what they want. And I would like to agree with you fellow Boric, i.e. First of all, I'd say that the office is this, the office of conflict of interest is really very important and it's good to have it. However, he must be truly equal to everyone. Well, for example, I don't know what it would be like for me to have suites, but to fly in, say, state residences for five kunas a day to act. Here is also a question for the lady who is at the head of this respectable and very important institution or example that I am a minister and give my wife a job in HEP and that I am in charge of HEP or similar things that happen in our society in which they are not really principled, and most of all, the representatives also refer to the roof ministries, people who run ministries and executive power. However, you should really consider extending jurisdiction over other officials and leaders of very important companies that have a very high potential to influence conflict of interest, and certainly society is here where it is. Because these people, and of course, need to increase the number of people, the financial opportunities we can increase in order to be as equal and even as possible and all because of fairer supervision of all institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3928	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3929	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, I think that in this period we will resolve that knot too, because I believe that everything that is, let's say, if the Parliament has appointed something more or less, it is an official and subject to obligations. I think the government should go that way. And if the government has appointed something at its meetings or administrations or in public enterprises to some level, it needs to draw a line and say it are officials, so let them, too, given that the number of objects obviously falls to you that you have enough time, i.e. space to process them as well. I don't think it would be worse if those people were introduced into the system, so let's say we can judge everyone accordingly. Because this is what I'm saying, many of my people seem honest or at some point they become dishonest, and those who may be doing some bad things or in a pure conflict of interest look very nice to the outside and are always competitive. I think that's what we're going to do for sure in the next period and through the amendments to the Law on Conflict of Interest, but also through the additions to your work, I think that as this new government, we're going to do it for sure, and then it's going to be easier to figure out what it is and what it is not, and who has to submit the property card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3930	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3931	Thank you, dear Vice President. The report as a report is correct, transparent, comprehensive, clear and there is nothing else to say but that it should be accepted. The commission works on the basis of a law that is rigorous, sometimes in some parts absurd, somewhere illogical. When we first passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, then it was imagined differently. That's for colleagues who've been here for a long time. It was conceived more as one advisory body and the control body of the officials themselves. They included parliamentary deputies, other officials with the idea that colleagues, colleagues control and warn, are careful not to enter a conflict of interest. I can personally say that I prefer that concept to the one that exists today. In his 2012 opinion, the Constitutional Court told the Commission that it is a preventive, anti-corruption body, and with that finding, I think it is a very brief, concise finding that should be further developed. The focus must be on preventing my deep conviction. The law is also called not a law on conflict of interest, but a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Perhaps the name of the Commission should also change that it is not called the Conflict Decision Committee, but the Committee on Prevention or the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. I, among the officials, escaped one fear of your commission whether or not they would accidentally enter into a conflict of interest and come to a pillar of shame. I rarely agree with Mr. Boris, but today I fully agree with him from the first to the last word, and I especially take off his hat as it says now from the position of the ruling majority when it comes to the scope of people. We don't have directors here at all, directors of large companies in which they are predominantly owned by the Republic of Croatia who work with billions, and we'd like to include in-house deputy municipal chiefs who don't decide anything, but nothing at all. So when such suggestions appear, I wonder if they're going in that direction to make your work harder so that you don't deal with important things or that they come to a complete misunderstanding? The conflict of public and private interest should be prevented and this is quite clear. However, the law also defines the conflict of two public interests, which is somewhat illogical. An official who's on some kind of duty shouldn't be on some other duty. If those two duties aren't in any conflict on their own, I don't see why you couldn't be. I really don't see why he can't be, unless he decides on some kind of money on his first duty that's going to be deployed into that body that he's going to be on second duty because then it might be a conflict of public and private interest again. But I couldn't possibly be, it's becoming a conflict of two public interests. That's why it's not the wrong committee, it's the wrong lawyers who passed such a law. The majority was 49 cases referred to in Article 14(1), which is precisely the conflict of two public interests. Now I'm wondering if in that case, if the commission is working so as to warn the official first, which I would advise on the phone, man, look, you may not know, but you've been in a conflict of interest for five days now, let's get out of this because it happened that people didn't really care at all. Because an official doesn't just care about whether he's in conflict of interest or something more important than that. The law needs to be changed, it needs to be tempered, some illogical things we've heard here before, I'll repeat them just to be repeated. This restriction on the conclusion of a contract after the termination of a duty which is longer than the compensation that this official receives, but completely absurd. So the official is also punished for not being able to make a living without receiving any compensation. It's completely illogical. And I don't see in that provision, but no purpose at all. Applications, look at the president, I suggest that the commission does not comment on the applications received at all because the applications to your committee have become a form of political struggle. Because I am now going to charge my colleague, Boric tomorrow with absolutely nothing at all to harm him politically, the commission will issue a statement that he has received the application and will decide on it in 14 days. And what to do with fellow Boric these 14 days with journalists, how to deal with them when he will have ten questions a day whether you Boric is in a conflict of interest or not and how you entered into this conflict of interest and when you think to get out of it. Therefore, my advice is not to comment on the pages. If the press is asking you if you've received any applications, we're not commenting. We'll make a decision. And if we change the law, and we need to change it, the law can't cover everything. It is often difficult to decide what is a conflict of interest. I'll give you three absurd examples. Because it's a public interest for MPs to be in the hall and to debate, and the MP has a private interest in going to register his car. So why did he put his private interest above the public interest to be here? It's absurd, but if I file such a report, and you're going to say so, there's a picture of him registering a car instead of sitting here. The owner of the OPG, there he can be elected as a parliamentary representative and a decision is made or he comments on the decision on incentives and advocates that some OPGs get, see he advocates his personal interest. We had a case like that. I won't mention the name. A gift of 500 kuna, call me a friend of Corcula to come to him for five days and I'll go to him. I'm under this law in conflict of interest. There's a hotel in Korčula, staying in a hotel costs 100 euros, and I can't accept a gift greater than 500 kuna and I can't go visit a friend, I can't. The law is so not your fault, but some things should still be brought into line with logic. To see if he rewards me for something I have done to him, I have favored him or I have visited a colleague, a friend to whom I have nothing to help, or what I can do to help him because he is dealing with something quite fifteen of what I decide. But we treat it all the same. So, the proposal to the government, Vice President, perhaps an unusual proposal, to reach a conclusion because this debate was not ideological, there was no difference between clubs which I was very pleased with, which means that it was good quality, that all the proposals and opinions presented in this debate were presented to the Government in order to prepare a better law because the opinions and remarks were indeed high quality. And advice to the commission, more prevention, less curative, less punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3932	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas, but before we move on to the replicas to talk to my colleague Stazic, since he's apostropheing me. I fully agree with you, but we do not rarely forget that we are the law-making body and that we do not always have to send and ask the government to propose laws, we have our own committees. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Justice also held this debate. So some of these committees can prepare a bill. So let's not keep running away from us being a legislative body, we are, we are a legislative body. ... Here's just one as a kid... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But we agree, we agree, actually. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Here, the next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3933	Here is colleague Stazic, I am very pleased that both the left and right sides of the assembly and practically all of us are thinking the same way. Since the replica is short on this subject we can practically talk for hours because we all have more or less experience in these things regardless of who is in what function. If anyone's under public opinion, the media, they're officials. You are Boris, and many speakers here have touched the other, much bigger problem of our society. That's where I went through the media while you were talking. There is one title: "They will not give up on their million bonus, there is nothing free", and you and many speakers here have touched some of the management presidents, we have touched management contracts, we have touched those who deal with these goods that this country has, Croatian forests, Croatian waters, municipal trade societies owned by cities and municipalities. They don't need to fill out any forms, they don't have to present to anyone what they have, which they acquired before they enter into service. We're here if we're late for a few days, now we're running out of 24th of our pattern, we're already in some kind of breach, and that's the stuff to talk about. And I don't need to use this model exactly as you've expressed yourself that this body that really should be a preventive body becomes a body that many anonymous or I don't know what kind of applications are used as some kind of body of political struggle because then we're in trouble. So it's the officials who are under public scrutiny. And it's very well known that some kind of chief and mayor and who has it, especially in smaller environments, but you don't know what the president or director of some company has at the moment when he's on the job and he's been entrusted with a great deal of wealth. Here is an example of the Croatian forests, talking about 5 million and some thousand kuna bonuses for members of that administration. What did these board members have before they entered the post, what do they now have at this time, and on what basis have they earned so much profit and so much profit? Based on the wealth of this country. And that's not to be said, but today at 24 hours, when we already have an obligation to submit all these reports, which is why some who have come down from duty cannot exercise their right to those 6+6 months, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3934	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3935	You're telling a colleague we have a lot of experience. We have, I agree with that, but this experience is not enough for us to prepare on committees a quality proposal to amend this law because, as you know, we don't have any offices, we don't have an office, we don't have an office, we don't have a public desk on which to write a bill. We don't even have professional services, we don't have anything. So I suggested that, this conclusion, we still refer it to the government because at least there are desks, at least they have offices and professional services to help them with this bill when it comes here as much as possible. I'd be glad, much more pleased if this law was one of the guarantees of the Most, not the nonsense they sent. But good. You're saying the Director of Public Enterprises should also see the difference in assets at the beginning and at the end of the job. Of course, but not only that, they make millions of deals during their duties. No one's checking to see if he's doing it with his brother, no one's checking it, but he's checking to see if he's an official, if he's been in the board for five days, I don't know what he was while he was in charge. So these are the absurdities I'm warning you about, and I'm glad we've reached agreement here because I think that's reasonable, this needs to be changed, this isn't good, this isn't good. It should include those who really have money and treat officials in a reasonable way and I dare say human.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3936	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rezimir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. One sentence here specifically integrated me into the report that actually the data truth controller is the public. And that's where I have to agree with my esteemed colleague, Stazic, about reporting, especially what my colleague was talking about... Boban, for anonymous applications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, we're starting from the presummation of innocence, it's one of the basic human rights. By publishing applications, by publishing anonymous applications, you are already creating the public. Given all the possible scandals that we've had in society, this public has been sensitized in a way that as soon as you've announced a report that someone has been reported to the Committee, it's his fault. And that's where I think we need to make a real cut. Presumption of innocence is like I said basic human right, we destroy a person who may not be guilty, and if it's your fault you'll make a decision but we're destroying his family, we're destroying his friends, we're destroying his society, and I mean one of the basic rights that shouldn't be violated, so basic human rights that shouldn't be violated. In that sense, I fully agree with your debate, dear colleague Stazic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3938	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3939	You warned us of a good sentence, the controller is public, but what is the public, who is this public? That's what the media is for, I'm sorry, and they have their own interests. They have an interest in publishing the bombing title advocate reported for conflict of interest because they will sell a better newspaper. I can have a private interest in reporting you because I'm going to get some political points. So the public can't be a controller because it's a general term. It's a term that's hard to define in this context in which we need him here. When the procedure is completed, if the commission imposes any sanctions, then we can talk about the public as a controller, but in the decision-making process, that public must be excluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3940	And the last replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3941	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic, it seems to me that you have touched the most important point in your debate, which is throughout history, and today is actually the role and purpose of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. Especially since I feel that the commission has done its job on the basis of the legal powers it has. So that's what the report shows, it couldn't do what wasn't their job, that's what you stressed. However, what I would like to stress now and it seems to me that you wanted to say the same, the public interest does not necessarily have to be of public interest. That's the difference, that's the big difference. You have well pointed out that a single official and representative in this House can be punished because he is enthusiastic, because he is willing to work somewhere else in the area of public interest, and then he was found to be in conflict between the two public interests. However, I think that even when you talked about changing the name, I think this commission would do a lot more if it weren't for a conflict of interest, deciding on a conflict of interest than a match of interest. So we have a series of cases where the public interest accidentally coincides with the private interest, and then there's a series of, a series of areas, gray areas where a person can significantly, gain considerable property benefits. Here I will say on a banal example, since fellow Stazic used banal examples if a man makes a road which is a public interest, and that road just passes by the inn that he accidentally holds. These are things to think about in the future but such as fellow Stazic, as you fellow Stazic said, so it is not wrong for the commission to change the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3942	Thank you very much. And now we would move on to the last individual debate on this subject, and that will be the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3943	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues, colleagues, I commend all of my praises to the Committee's work on the conflict of interest decision and, of course, I will support it. Because it was working, although I doubt all these years before the founding that something was done. I remember a gentleman in this Croatian Assembly who I watched who said that fellow MPs had entered this Assembly as his gods, and at the end of the term he was a greater goddess and they were rich. There is no doubt that a man in his work on such a responsible function in the Croatian Parliament can earn a certain amount of money through honest work, his work in the Croatian Parliament, and it is also doubtless that he is given many opportunities to catch something on the side that some have probably taken such a chance. So then, in their midst, by looking at those MPs they remember as goddesses today, they are seen in luxury cars, by their children and their heirs in the same cars, testifying to the fabulous wealth or something else. I will also commend this commission for another action it has carried out since I was a police officer, and I like to read the evidence after I was a police officer, and it says this, "In the light of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the allocation of funds to help the institutions for humanitarian activities in the Republic of Croatia on the burden of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012, it has been found that the said decision as aid to the institutions of the minority self-government for humanitarian purposes has been allocated an amount of several million kuna." It is not out of a few million kunas, it is 5 million kuna and 180 thousand kunas. In relation to the decision-making and distribution of these funds, the Commission noted that there was no prescribed methodology as well as criteria as prescribed for the allocation of funds by the National Minority Council. In order to protect citizens' trust in public authorities and officials themselves acting in public duties as well as for the purpose of preventing perception of possible benefits to certain individuals or stakeholders. Each allocation by the national authorities and thus the allocation of funds to associations of national minorities should be subject to clear and predetermined criteria and developed by the methodology for their division and to the availability to all stakeholders who should be informed on a timely basis about the allocation of those funds in order to prepare as high-quality programmes as possible for which the funds will be allocated. Beyond such a system of funds from public sources or state and other public budgets should not be allocated except in some exceptional and unforeseen situations where the general public interest would impose such an excessive burden. It is pointed out that the Council for National Minorities has sufficiently implemented such a system with a recommendation to introduce the exemption practice but a certain lack of such a system is announced when allocations of funds to national minorities by other national authorities. The introduction is good, we'll move on to one such assignment. The Government of the Republic of Croatia decided in 2012 on the allocation of funds to assist the institutions for humanitarian activities in the Republic of Croatia on the burden of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. This decision grants assistance to minority self-government institutions for humanitarian purposes of 5 million 185 thousand 890 kuna. The aid referred to in point 1 of this Decision shall be made available from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the current grant in cash. Who? They are assigned to the Hungarian Union in the Republic of Croatia, then to the Roma National Council and of course to the Serb community in Croatia. Where are the Slovaks, Italians? Where there are other national minorities in our country of Croatia, so they can join in this division of money. There's nothing for them. Only these three groups got those funds. It is doubtful whether reports have been submitted, whether they have been transparently and in which direction they have been spent. Were these funds justified to state institutions for consumption? I'd like to mention my own experience. At the time of Croatian Defence Ministers Mrs Jadranka Kosor as president of the Association of the Special Police of Vukovar-Srijem County I received two thousand kunas at my disposal at the association of three hundred members. And later I had to file a written report. These are the only funds I have received for my association since 2000, I quote from state institutions and bodies. I would also like to say that before I lost my mind, he says: "The foreign ministry has allocated nearly 250,000 kuna to the DOCUMENTA's past." The chairman of the Management Board of the association is the brother of the foreign ministry. That's part of it. Whether there is a conflict of interest or not, consider yourself as the Croatian public. I will continue to take a special look at myself since I am known in the media as Stevo Primitive, as Steve or such, and I will welcome from this place all our fellow citizens, our great friends, our Croatian Roma, of whom one has found himself offended but says this: "The Council of the Roma National Minority of Međimurje County to the Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Croatia Parliamentary Representative Stevo Culej. Dear Mr. Parliamentarian Stevo Culej, I ask you to take all measures according to your powers to review various applications and reasonable doubts and in relation to the findings and opinions of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of the Interest of Mr. Veljka Kajtazi. "There are other texts that are listed below, but I will also look back at the decision. So this came at me this morning, and there have been these reports before. And I've been offered such reports and I've had my own certain reaction which has turned out to be national hatred and some kind of conflict that doesn't stand at all because my biggest friends are national minorities. He says: “The Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest then established a procedure for deciding on a conflict of interest with the official Veljak Katazi, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. Second point. It is called on official Veljko Kajtazi to submit to the Commission, within 15 days of the date of receipt of this decision, an indication of the reasons for this decision." Furthermore, the Commission received anonymous, non-anonymous applications, unanonymous assessments of the grounds for this decision, and from the content of non-anonymous reports and other data collected from the knowledge that a conflict of interest could be carried out in particular, etc. The Commission therefore considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, etc. So this is a kilo and 300 grams of this document has been weighing, so are the ones that sent plus this request. I will hand this over here to Mrs. President for the Committee on the Decision of Conflict of Interest on their behalf, on behalf of all Roma. I would also like to encourage the Commission to review these 5 million and 180 thousand kunas whether they were purposely and transparently spent on those representatives of national minorities who had received these money in their accounts. And I can also only promise to other national minorities who did not participate in the division of this money you'll have better luck in this term of office if there is justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3944	Thank you very much. Was that a violation of the Rules of Procedure? No, no. Then we have one replica, it just seems to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3945	... to say this because this was a very good example, thank you very much, very good example of what colleagues previously said that the benefits of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest which did well in its work for defamation and slander in the public and in this Parliament are what MP Culey has just done. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] So, what he mentioned, the committee that needs to be questioned is being questioned. As far as national minorities are concerned, they are financed as is known from the budget and each of the national minorities exists in the budget, so they get money from the budget. These were additional funds for some specific activities including the formation of the Roma National Council which was formed at the time. And to engage in conflicts, political conflicts within the Roma community and try to exploit these political conflicts within the Roma community for a reckoning that MP Culej has already worked here quite a dirty way with MP Katazia is below each level. As for funding from the Foreign Ministry, which he also mentioned, it is an object that is before the Committee for Conflict of Interest and it will express its own right. There are some amateur diphthms in the Parliament that are not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3946	Thank you. The Honorable counsel, Stevo Culej, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3947	Amateur or not, I am written enough to know how to read from the text that is in front of me, to explain it in Croatian, that I can say as an ex-cop that there are doubts about how to come to a certain conclusion if you do not doubt someone if someone has not reported it anonymously or not anonymously, how to even get to the one who has abused his position, how to justify to the Croatian people we are all wonderful, beautiful and honest. Here we have nice hairstyles, we have all ties, well some we don't have, but we are all wonderful and beautiful, and our people, as our bush and our colleague Pernar would say, are starving, not for the basic needs of life, and someone is sharing funds. Who? Brothers, sisters, associations. Which associations, who scream out here in front of the square when they're not given any money, what kind of documents, what media, who these people are... the media, who are all those who are screaming and screaming against the Croatian man and in this Parliament and on the street and everywhere. You call me illiterate, so of course I failed to buy any college but I had to learn honestly if I did and I had to earn every kuna with my own hands. I've worked hard enough to get us to see a surgeon to examine my bones. Someone sitting in this Croatian Assembly is robbing all their mandates and using only his subjects, faithful ones. You robbed the Croatian people and you were against them at all times. You used every point, every point in any law was not used, but to the harm of the Croatian people, and for the benefit of someone else. I am a pity, I am the Croatian defender who created this Croatian state, and you are the ones who robbed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3948	I'm asking you to be parliamentary. We have the next line, and that's the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3949	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ha, it was difficult now to replicate anything, and regarding the topic that really today's debate was very high-level, but it is not correct that parliamentary representatives take away the right to, as any citizen of this Republic, hand over the cases to the Committee of Conflict of Interest. So it's not good and it shouldn't be done like that. The parliamentary representative has a greater obligation if he has noticed any irregularities to report them to the Committee for Conflict of Interest. That's my opinion. But I will return, here as well as my colleague Culej, but through the debate is seen and a sentence that a colleague here spoke about the court giving the public, it is indeed not good in this example, not in this final part of the exhibition but in the first part of Mr Culei's presentation and throughout the debate because I say in another example. When the cost data came out, then for some time, among other things, some colleagues sitting here with us, for the expenses of the 8th call all the media reported how many people had spent over 100,000, just because they were knowingly and honestly doing their job. And what about those from public companies, what about those who are not included in the status of officials, and we would add them here to, say, assistant municipal councils at the lowest local level? That's why it's urgent, it's really urgent to change this law so that we don't have to make sure that it doesn't go out of the barrel to the stopper, and it goes out to the tap as much as it does. Tappoon, clarification, that's the big one on the barrelhole, those who don't know the Dalmatian expression, that's the big one. So we're keeping a small plug of some kind of legal around me with the wrong norms, and we're putting it on that watermelon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3950	Thank you very much. Something's cramping, something's cramping with speakers. The Board for Injury of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the distinguished representative Ana Komarić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3951	Thank you, Mr. President. Although my injury to the Rules of Procedure went to the hearing of counterparts Culei and refers to Article 238 where he says that a fellow representative should not belittled and insulted by the president or other MPs. So in his reply to the replica, Kuley really insulted all the colleagues sitting in this House. There may be some among us who did something one way or another, but then let's talk about names. This was an insult to the entire assembly, to all colleagues, who are doing our job honestly and responsibly, and I think you should have interrupted him and warned him and protected fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3952	I can agree with you that it was inappropriate, but I must also remind myself that very often, unfortunately, in this House it was spoken of as a particular party that it was a thief party, that the thieves, an a guerilla for therefore not individually again and so on. So unfortunately it didn't react then, and now it's not good either. And I plead to all my fellow MPs that such negative expressions are not used is they do not like this home, absolutely not like this home. But you are very aware that unfortunately in the heat of political struggle, on the one hand and on the other hand there have been such inappropriate statements. We've got a bit of technical voice issues, so we'll take a break for technical reasons. I hope we can fix that. .../Technical problems with the sound./... It's 12.40 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.47 HOURS]] And now, for the final five minutes on behalf of the SDP club, he has asked for a respected representative, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3954	I thank you, Vice President. This debate today was one of the better discussions I heard in the Assembly, quality, content, calm and without any ideological divisions. She was like that until the debate involved counsel Stevo Culej but she doesn't have such good or noble, or quality things that people like Steve Culey can't push into the mud. It's a man who, first of all, on the ethnic grounds of the most harsh, most primitive words insulted our distinguished colleague Keatazi and then to cover up the motives of this attack, wanted to enlist him further by reporting him to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. There was no representative here today who disagreed with the fact that the Committee would not serve it. The only one who doesn't understand that is Steve Culey, who abuses it. Stevo Culej boasts here in front of us with his primitiveism, says I'm primitive, and he's proud and proud of his poor education, and he's proud of his right. I was disturbed by something else, which says he is an authentic representative of the Croatian people, which is an insult to the Croatian people, one of the worst because the Croatian people are neither primitive nor as uneducated as Stevo Culej. It is an insult to this entire Croatian Parliament, but it is an insult to common sense first. I would pray to the chairman that when such incidents occur and probably not happening often, probably only when Steve Culej appears for the word, to prevent such incidents from preventing this disgrace of this distinguished House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3955	Thank you very much. I, before I of course give a word to others, ask you nicely, indeed the debate today throughout the entire afternoon was both constructive and I think very overly and very reasonable and very useful. It is now headed in one direction that I would ask to return to that course as it was until 9.30 a.m. to avoid being beaten into a crowd, that words do not become more and more intense and do not actually go beyond what should be a criterion in one serious parliament. Here, it's my application to everyone who's going to keep talking. We had a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] Dear Representative Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3956	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Track, I'd like to take a word for it when you say 238. You said that what we Croats gave this country and one defending state to say is a disgrace to the Croatian people A Croatian defender has been injured in the Croatian state, in the Croatian Parliament. ... [[Intruder Reiner: You must define what was injured in the article, following Article 238.]] Here, it was injured by a representative of the Stazic who came out to hurt our representative, Croatian, defender of the Croatian state. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I ask you what you gave for this Croatian state? He gave a lot of things and what did you give Mr. Stazić for 20 years in the Parliament getting paid and doing nothing and on the budget of the Croatian state? Our defenders are an insult to the Croatian state, aren't you ashamed? How can you not be ashamed? ... You didn't do anything either, you were just working against the Croatian state, ma'am... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You want me to pay back? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I never took a salary from the budget until I came to the Croatian Parliament and you have your whole life out of the budget salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3957	You are aware that what you just said is not adequate and has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you all nicely not to abuse the institutes of this House. Please. And let's end this discussion at the level that it's been all morning. ... Please don't throw yourself out of place. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I ask everyone, because that's not the way Parliament behaves, so please, let's go back to the way they were, here until a moment ago. There's still someone who's been doing some damage to the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Hajdukovic, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3958	Yes, Mr. President, thank you. Article 236 has been injured which clearly defines what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure and what the representative who raises the breach of the Rules of Procedure is doing. You have now explained to your colleagues what it is, please stop the representatives who have chosen this Institute of Abuse and not only to abuse the Institute but to speak very badly about their colleagues and colleagues in this House who have chosen Croatian citizens in this House and if they do not respect the person then they must respect at least that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3959	Thank you very much. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure was also raised by the distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3960	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Misic injured Article 236 because he misused the Institute of Violations of the Rules of Procedure to replicate to colleagues who were wrong because in that case he made it impossible for them to respond to the replica. You have also stated this, but let me appeal to you that you should have done it long before, rather than allowing Mr. Mišić simply to say everything he planned despite hurting the Rules of Procedure. And I think you should react immediately and you should have taken his word away. Well, I think you're part of it, too, regardless of what you've realized is the injured Rules of Procedure is that you're too late for the intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3961	Comrade Voter, that's exactly why I warned my colleague Muscle. And when your party gets most of it and you sit here, you'll be running the session. Honorable representative Tomislav Zhagar has also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3962	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I therefore believe that Article 236 and Article 238 have been injured. The explanation is the same as counterpart Sabina and counterpart Hajdukovic. Therefore, under the Infringement Institute, the Rules of Procedure were replicated, and in that replica, Article 238 was injured where other MPs were insulted and demeaned.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3963	I also warned the MPs in that regard. Now we have a few replicas. He had a replica of the esteemed representative Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3964	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues, national minorities, all of you, I admire that you've all run, we've brought a little liveliness into this debate. I'm glad I got you all up to the back feet, that you've all caught me together and that I'm the only problem in this Croatian Parliament just because I said something I shouldn't say and that's true. Mr. Dear Reverend, I have not seen the sea with my children except on the postcard for 7 kuna summers on the Croatian Adriatic. Not because I'm incapable of this, but because you made it possible for me as well as for all the other Croatian defenders such fate that we must endure and live these lives under your boot. I'm asking you the same thing if there's a conflict of interest, did you blow balloons like a cop asking you when you fell off your bike? Every decent Croatian citizen comes to him and shoves a balloon under his nose and he has to blow, he has to prove he wasn't drunk. You want a nice discussion? Let's move on. You're in pain with money, and you're in pain of asking if you've given your brother 250 thousand kuna? Did I or didn't I? Why did I give it? I'll prove it. Hey, brother Ante, you need 250 miles? Here... I'll assign you, I'm on that board. The man who pitted it was. That's how you cooperated in the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3965	Comrade Culey, this was not a replica at all from fellow Stazic. I'm asking you nicely to stick to the subject, to speak with dignity, and as I don't know what time I said we should try to finish this morning the way it's practically been all morning. Here's an answer from a distinguished colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3966	Listen, all you said was a lie. So you're not only primitive as you admit, you're not only uneducated as you've admitted but you're a common liar. You're nothing but a slanderer, but if a fool knew she was a fool, he wouldn't be a fool.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3967	My colleague Stazic, I have prayed nicely not to continue with such words here, and you are making it stronger. Can't we really have a discussion here on some level? I'm really asking you. A colleague, Paric, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, I did, and many here have done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure under Article 236 and who knows which other. Now you're gonna warn me, but this is all your fault, this is what you're supposed to stop at the very beginning, and by not reacting, we've come to what we've come to. So I'm asking you in the future because we have experience now, we know what things look like to take action in time. Here, thank you. And otherwise, the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and colleagues to Strazic and his colleagues to Cule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3969	Okay, thank you. A colleague of the Voice is the same I think you didn't raise. My colleague Hajdukovic, no, good. We have a colleague named Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3970	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter I don't think it's nice to communicate with a fuy, a fool in this assembly, with a fool, with an uneducated, with a fool. I think it's a 13th-century communication in a farmer's day. This is how farmers were not treated by the elite, as the speakers were now referring to in this assembly. So here's just to pay attention to that because the truly disastrous relationship of parliamentary representatives towards their colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3971	I think I made it very clear and asked everyone to stick to certain levels because you know what using such a dictionary is the most we talk about ourselves. And those who use it most speak of themselves. And before us colleagues and in front of the people who chose us. And it's up to you to choose your way. My colleague, Felak, has also committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3972	Well, Mr. President, first of all, Article 238, paragraph 5, which states that a representative must not be demeaning or insulting the president or other representatives during the hearing. All of what Mr. Bulj said and what we've all heard I think are the lowest insults that can be and that they are not worthy of this Croatian Assembly. Mr. Culey may have said some things in his discussion and in his replica that were not quite suitable for the Parliament, but he did not directly insult anyone. What Mr. Stazic did was direct insults and I don't think that in such a way it should be debated in this House. But unfortunately, it is a practice and some of the other MPs that are not here today and should be interrupted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3973	Thank you. That's what I said. He's a colleague of Zekanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3974	Well, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, also as counterpart Felak said, was violated in article 5 of Article 238. And here I note that there is an article here in Article 239, which says: “The representative will be given notice if he acts contrary to Article 238 of this Rules of Procedure.” I don’t think it is doubtful that this item has been previously violated, therefore Article 239 is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3975	I agree. My judgment is that some would deserve more than a warning, but I didn't tell them because otherwise it's claimed that I'm making too many warnings. But we will continue with the replicas and the next replica is the esteemed representative of Veljak Keatazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3976	Thank you. Dear fellow Trainer, everything you said was right. The gentleman in question tried to discredit me in every way during the election campaign, but he failed. Just because he didn't make it, he kept going at the same pace. And still Madam President of the Committee, I apologize for all this nonsense you've had to listen to. In 2011 to 2013, you also received from the same people with whom the gentleman in question cooperated, given that they had lost the election trying in all possible ways in such a way as to discredit me. I'm not afraid at all of those materials that they're going to send. I'm inviting you right now to look at them even more closely and see if there's any shortages. Because I think I'm one of those who's been reported to the Committee of Conflict of Interests without being punished at all, and one of them was me. And so, I invite you to process in more detail everything that you get if it's me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3977	Thank you. I understand your need to express that, but it wasn't really a replica of fellow Stazic. But he answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3978	Comrade Kajtazi, we all know you here, and from the past, you're a worthy and honest man. And it may serve you honor and pride if you are attacked by a Steve Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3979	The last replica was the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3980	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, this way, if Mr. Culey wasn't here and his brother who was massacred by it, we know who we wouldn't be sitting here today, discussing a conflict of interest. First of all, it's like this. I've read this brief report, but why don't we talk about, for example, the exact conflict of interest where there's a million and 84 thousand etc. under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs dedicated to relatives, etc. [[/Intruder Reiner: Col. Glasnović, excuse me. You're replicating.]] I'm gonna track down the conflict of interest. [[Intruder Reiner: You colleagues Glasnović replicate colleagues Stazic.]] How is it possible that that list out there hasn't checked the BOOK, people who have millions? Well, Mr. Stazic, that's what I'm telling him. [[Intruder Reiner: But my colleague Stazic is not a commission.]] It's a key issue of conflict of interest. It's the subject of the current conversation. As far as possible, this conflict of interest office can't work in this vacuum. What's the M.O., Interpol, E.P., jump? What Mr. Culey said we created this parallel legal and this financial system. How is it possible that the daughters of the former president have six million kunas, in fact francs or euros in those accounts, and we tax people who come from outside the diaspora 45% on their pension. It has nothing to do with the rule of law. And it's a conflict of interest. If it's not a conflict of interest, here's a document here at Law School. What are the institutions doing? That's what we have to deal with. And who's to blame for having a dysfunctional state? Nothing works here. We're on the verge of an economic downturn. People have money out there. You have two keywords right outside, it's the origin of the property. You can't bring in more than $10,000 in Canada without someone asking you about the origin of the property. People have empires, and what's going on here? We're hanging on to Mr. Cule's statement. It's a complete distraction from the key problem that we don't have a rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3981	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3982	I don't know why you didn't answer for a ten-minute hearing and say all that. What does that have to do with what I was talking about on behalf of the club about Cule? But it has absolutely nothing to do with you or you haven't been in the hall or you have hearing problems or understanding. But please read the Rules of Procedure and use the replica, answer to the replica in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3983	A colleague, Zekanovic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3984	Your Honor, Mr. President, here it is again breaking point means Article 5 of Article 238. Again, another representative is belittled and insulted. And then we have an article 240.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3985	I'm sorry, I didn't realize who was belittled.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3986	So Mr. Stazic disrespects his colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3987	No, I have to admit, that's not how I realized it. They differ in their views it is generally known.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3988	He told him that he didn't understand, that he didn't understand and that if I wasn't wrong, he didn't hear badly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3989	That's not disdain. But let's move on. Five minutes on behalf of the HDZ, the final guest of Blaženko Boban will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3990	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It's a little ironic that one temperamental Dalmatian all of these others must in some way have a jargon, drop the balloon on the ground and return the ball to the field in which, really, since this morning full 90 minutes has played very correct, dynamic, temperamentally, pleasantly to eye viewers and ultimately very constructively. And then in the 90th minute, a lot of red charts, off, and now I'm getting more and more convinced that we really need the ethical code, all of us. I'm not surprised that the code of ethics needs some people who have experienced problems throughout history had tortures both these and those systems or I don't know what everything, but I'm surprised that here are both teachers and academics and we all really need that ethical code so let's put the balloon on the ground and let's talk about the subject. Respected Commission of Conflict of Interest today you could hear despite these last half-hours very much constructive and quality proposals. I said in one of the replicas, let's make it all together so we don't put on a tap or... a barrel and keep on the plug. It's one of the remarks that could be seen through a series of segments here. I will repeat, it is indeed necessary and it is banal that one of the presidents of the municipal council of some small municipality is an official, and on the other hand that not some senior officials of public institutions or companies are not officials. It really is necessary to change this urgently and significantly. The fact is that this report of yours I will repeat once again, a very transparent, visible, well-studently designed and that you have been working on the basis of the Law of Conflict of Interest. But it is up to us here to change it urgently and that that proposal that came here from the bench... today's debate and the government and those who will ultimately create a law to draw out a series of details that could be incorporated into the future law. Also now, and it's up to you, not some new law to simplify the procedure. Here it is said on a few occasions it is really not good for the very procedure to give a single report on the conflict of commission now in four days you are giving a new one again that the official must give a new one and a number of other segments really need to be simplified, and you can do it yourself within your office. I'll also say that a series of those banal examples, the little things that we have here on the last ten, the fifteen pages that you've finely taxed here, are not the ones that should know the general public. When I speak to the public, the interested public because in the end a number of cases ended up in a way that you gave that there was no conflict of interest, and someone was crucified through the media both in this and that way, by reporting itself, the more the reports might have been anonymous. So I appeal once again, if an anonymous application is not necessary, you really don't have to report it until the final decision. When it is the final decision, I absolutely agree that all the public and all the media have to react or whatever they want to do. Here are these few examples I ask you for the operationality of both your work and your actions and for the protection of the efficiencies of those officials who deserve it, to really try to do so in the future what you would do now, with the necessity of changing the law, but you should react in some way now. So once again, thank you very much for this report. For the very end, once again, the HDZ Club will support this report and we expect you to be actively involved in the creation of a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3991	Thank you. We have three replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Mark Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3992	My replica refers to this need to adopt an ethical code because it seems to me that we really have reached the level where the ethical code is necessary...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3993	.../technical problems with the sound system. Technical problems with the announcement. Representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3994	Here's the quick question for Mr. Boban. Most of them, I've worked for 10 years in law enforcement, I know how the system works. Most of the information comes for conflict of interest, for thieving, for malfeasance, etc., from anonymous tips, what current law in Croatia is on the protection of whistles whether they meet the criteria, I am not an expert. The second question, how is it possible, I'm going back to the last statement that some people created a business empire on thieving, war profiteering, and again no one asks the origin of the property? How does this system work? The phones ring, 24 hours a day are open, someone calls, says Mr. That and that, rents a public space, 50 squares, has 300 squares. Or the gentleman's got a yacht in the garage and he works at 18 bucks an hour in the hardware store. It's getting rid of the Toot Suite. And with us, how can we... The standards legal and talk about morality and ethics when it was first destroyed in this country and it wasn't destroyed in the '90s but was destroyed in the '80s and where the money was until the '90s which is now going back from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] foreign investment where ACI Marine is purchased, hardware, shipyards, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who are these people, where are these bank accounts and who were pulled out by the '90s? How can they sit in the Constitutional Court of People who were destroying state-owned companies? What standard is that? We have to start at the top. We seal people's stores for 200 kuna taxes and at the same time some haven't paid millions, tens of millions, it has nothing to do with the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3995	The Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3996	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Glasnović, yes, it is probably true, there is no reason not to believe all the examples you have set here. And that is why I am also apostrophe through the opening statement on behalf of the club, and this is ultimately necessary, it is really necessary that we change this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest urgently how the banalities that are in it are in some way minor to the maximum, and the important things that you, as a representative, through certain proposals that I don't know about, but I absolutely believe you brought here to be involved and to be able to fit into the law so that people have solved hands that and things like that, in some way, they lead to the end. And I'm glad, it's a debate and it's about to end, but she's on her way back to some nice, peaceful tone, and I'm glad that the temperamental Dalmatians are putting the ball down on the ground and that somehow this is all coming to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3997	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3998	Thank you very much. A fellow Boban is the fact that conflict of interest is the key to corruption in the Republic of Croatia. This is visible in every segment of society, however, the Commission has done its job in accordance with its capabilities. But when we look financially, when we look at a number of accounts that have been mentioned for years outside of Croatia, when we look at a number of companies, companies, institutions that give themselves money, such as money as well as numerous other organisations that, without control or agency, which, without control, allocate money to whom it comes to mind. Of course, this part of the officials should be expanded as I said for the first time because corruption is booming in conflict of interest. It can't be worth one right for someone, someone who's his wife somewhere,... the subject of a... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not a rule. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or an example, someone if he is a minister and is responsible for HEP that his husband/wife gets huge jobs through HEP.a So here we come to a big problem where it means conflict of interest to be clear. That's the first one. And as for the code of conduct, I did not write it to me or write it myself to speak as an ordinary man who had the intention of going to college, to study but went to Homeland War, 17 years of being a professional soldier and giving orders to people in the Homeland War as well as other colleagues, it's a shame that highly educated teachers spit, literally spit and talk fools, so there is no such, all the educations.../technical problems with the voice./... but simple culture is not taught, only obviously at studies and higher education schools, but simply that man should be brought up like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u3999	The Honorable Representative Blaženko Boban will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4000	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll start with this last piece of your replica, I really agree with you. Unfortunately, the ethical code is required. I didn't mean it at first, but it really is necessary now because he was obviously the behavior of certain representatives were those professors, academically educated, Croatian soldiers or someone else who couldn't allow himself here in the High House to express, river and way disrespecting the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly of Abuse. And about this conflict of interest and you have cited some examples of which I also absolutely trust you because you certainly know from practice and that is why I have referred to all the banality of the current law, not the work of the Commission but the current law. And I will repeat once again, there is a man on a board who may be 150 kuna in one quarter of the year, on the other hand, there are no people in officials who, through their work, rotate millions and millions through public procurement and some others, other contracts or signing of some other kind of contract. It's really not good. That's why I said we might have one of the strictest laws for, uh, so I'll say so for those little officials in some way. Unfortunately for a number of officials that the general public thinks are officials and are not bi, it is not regulated so far and therefore it is necessary to go urgently to change this law in order to see it all together. I think that today's debate of all of us, all of us here, has contributed to the fact that such a new law is really based on justice and that it is based on what will help many people in this country because in the end, some officials can only, by their inaction, be in conflict with the parties for whom their functioning is very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4001	Thank you very much. And now our applicant, the respected president of the Commission, Dalia Oreshkovic, will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4002	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives and MPs for a detailed display of the development of the practice of the commission that we have tried to clarify in this report, as well as the practices of administrative and other courts in the process of controlling the legality of our decisions and, in particular, those parts of the report of the commission describing the problems we have faced in the application of this law and the shortcomings of the general institutional framework can serve as a clear indication in the design of future amendments and addition of this law. And the commission is willing to participate in making its proposals and also in further pointing to the consequences that we have already seen come from the bad solutions. I couldn't agree if our law was one of the most rigid. By reading comparative laws, I also noticed much stricter obligations and limitations than those defined in our law. Another problem is that the existing law is not normally the happiest organized. There are also insufficient procedural provisions. And I agree with the fact that certain institutes should either be completely abolished and some introduced, some of which should be substantially modified. That is exactly what this analysis is for, which we have shown in the report submitted. In relation to the circle of officials today, you could actually hear a lot of confusing information, I am obliged to clarify that you are the directors of companies in the majority state ownership of officials. Their conflict of interest the commission oversees and controls within those limits of powers given to us. The commission was the one who first noticed that the circle of officials was insufficient, and we also proposed that the circle of officials be extended to the director of the daughter's company. So if the director of HEP is our manager or director of Plinarro, then should we also consider whether those who are directors in branches, namely HEP Heat or underground gas storage should they also be subject to the obligations arising from this law? The management of the HBOR, the administration of a number of other institutions, so the directors of institutions, agencies that have the number of powers and cannot, on any basis, be subject to the provisions of this law. That's what the commission pointed to. Of course, it is the Croatian Parliament that could more clearly define certain legal concepts and definitions such as other public duties, as well as the Croatian Parliament could be made clear on what exactly is the scope of the data subject to public publication? I would remind myself that the commission took office in 2013 when all those property cards were submitted and publicly published in 2011 to 2013. For this summary, the commission also existed and was already in the situation relative to the new property card submitted in the electronic form. The details of the public publication have not been extended or changed. That's what I'm saying because of all those exposures that concerned the alleged conflict between the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and the Commission. I would also like to explain, and we pointed out that when each report was submitted. I still do not think that respect for those provisions of the law that are clearly defined, so the membership of officials in legal bodies and supervisory committees of individual legal entities and the consequences resulting from violations of these prohibitions from the very definition of conflict of interest and violation of the principle of action. The level of discretion of the commission in those provisions of the law, therefore, in those rules which officials must respect and whose infringement is subject to the possibility of sanctioning, is almost gone. However, conflict of interest, especially the most important part of a potential conflict of interest, is never possible to norm as it is impossible to norm even all principles of action. This is the part that will always be subject to the practice of the commission and I point out that is the part in which the right preventive role is achieved, the real purpose of the operation of this institution, that is the part through which standards of conduct of public duties, codes of good practice, codes of best practice that develops permanently either this and any future assembly of the commission will necessarily have to enter into the interpretation of that part of the law. The Commission also supports the fact that the rights and obligations of officials must be in some fair balance. We were the first to point out that this balance was not properly achieved in relation to local officials. The commission was not only managed by experience in practice but also by the knowledge that we directly heard from local officials when we were conducting education at local and regional level. Those officials who participated in these educations are well aware of this dialogue that the commission has sought to establish with officials to hear and experience in the application of this law, as it appears on the other hand. I would point out that the role of the commission is not only in the application of the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest but also in the indication of a certain phenomenon, certain phenomena which, in our experience and knowledge, can affect the reduction of citizens' confidence in public authorities. Representative Culey actually read one part of the final decision of the commission where we actually said that the normative framework is such that it provides an opportunity for further improvements. This is the right preventive purpose and role of the commission and I point out that the quote was read from the final decision, which found that there was a breach of the principle of action. So the injury was found, no possibility for that injury to be pronounced and sanctioned, and that's not the point. The media carried it well, they figured it out. We just want through this type of decision to point to what would be good in the prevention system, in the system of building integrity, integrity of officials, to apply as good practice. Therefore, each such case concerns not only and directly the official to whom it refers but is in fact a guideline and a guideline to others as appropriate in the conduct of public duties to those situations which may cause public suspicion of the motives of making individual decisions. Compared to the media, there was a lot of talk today about alleged pressures. I have always pointed out that the work of the Political Pressure Committee has not yet been done. This ultimately stems from a clear fact and will always be an indicator of whether or not there are such pressures, whether they are in our public sessions, whether they are on the agenda of those who act as state authorities. Likewise, those who exercise local authority and logic of things require that procedures are always carried out against those who are in power, not those who do not have that power at that time. There were no political pressures, even fewer media pressures. At the beginning of our work, it was actually very difficult for us to get used to the public. Personally, I'll always feel uncomfortable when there's cameras anywhere nearby. But the fact is that we too very quickly saw that in fact the presence of the media is a control of the way the Commission does its job. So, not just control officials, but control our way of working. It should not be forgotten that the law explicitly stipulates that all meetings of the Committee are public. So, no secret sessions. It should also not be forgotten that, in addition to the decisions to initiate the procedure, these sessions are also decided not to initiate the procedure. And this is the moment when the public may be even more necessary to convince themselves, if the Commission has decided at the very beginning why it does not initiate proceedings against someone that are the reasons, which are the basis, which is the explanation and evidence on which the Commission makes such a decision. What officials seem to be still insufficiently used to me, and it is explicitly prescribed in the law and imagined as an institute where officials can protect themselves from unfounded publicity in the public that they were in an inappropriate conflict of interest is that the Commission must initiate the procedure when officials themselves ask for it. So it's the only situation where the Commission has to initiate the procedure regardless of whether there's a conflict of interest in the final or not and that's exactly what it's up to. Therefore, in order to establish through one institutional administrative procedure whether there is an officer in breach of ethical principles, whether one of the infringements for which the law provides for the possibility of imposing sanctions. So this role of the media that, in fact, especially those who, from year to year, from session to session, are constantly following our work, I would say that their way of transferring and reporting our work has changed significantly. It seems to me that more and less sensationalism is present in the media and that those who are constantly following us are already very, very well understanding the normative framework in which the Committee is located, very different situations where the official may be out of ignorance, perhaps from lack of guidance, perhaps no one has drawn his attention that he is in the board of directors of an institution that is not declared of particular interest. So they distinguish the situation from the situation in which the Commission said there was no specific injury that could be sanctioned. Far from being able to talk about some form of corruption, but perhaps in order to protect citizens' trust in public authorities, some of the patterns of behaviour should also be changed. And the official found himself in a situation where he did not adequately protect his own integrity and credibility in a timely manner. I'd also like to say something about deadlines. The deadlines for the Commission's conduct in general do not exist. There are only procedures for giving opinions, but not for those which determine whether there has been a conflict of interest. It has also been mentioned whether or not the Commission is manipulating the term of inclusion of a particular case on the agenda with the possible image of an official who is at a certain point in time in the competition for a certain public duty. I'm responsible for saying that's not the case. There is no example from the Commission's practice that you will find that the Committee during the campaign, so I am talking about an election campaign, and especially just before the election, has placed one of the competitors on the agenda. That is precisely what is being taken into account in order not to send a message to the public that would raise doubts that the Commission's work is being instrumentalised. I would also say that the media is asking questions based on the basic democratic principle that the public has the right to know. The media thus raises questions whether an individual official has been applied under the applicable Law on the right to access information. We owe that information. However, when we talk about applications, it is also important to clarify something that stems from the established process of informing the Commission's work. Therefore, any application shall be made independently of whether it has been submitted anonymously or has not been submitted anonymously to the e-mail system of the Commission for the purpose of forming an electronic file. On the basis of such an application, the Commission shall actually verify its content regardless of who the applicant is, and in the end collects documentation from other state bodies, verify the allegations. If they are established at a public session, the decision to initiate the procedure shall be taken. It should not be forgotten that the law provides that the Commission can make a decision based on its own knowledge. It is not limited how the Committee can acquire such knowledge. In its work, the Committee was guided by the content of whether the content, evidence and documentation were to be initiated and not whether the applicant was anonymous or not. I would also like to point out that the Commission acts in the same way and when the media learns that a single official is in a possible conflict of interest, even then the subject is being handled, so it also goes through the system in the same way. In the report, I explained that we actually designed an information project to automatically deploy certain items from the work cycle and the competence of the commission to one of the members as rapporteur who then prepares the file at the first initial stage. This actually means that the commission is from the first day, and so it will be until the end of the call of this committee absolutely certainly, that is, what I can guarantee, there is no official whose potential conflict of interest will not be discussed, regardless of what decision will be made. It is possible that something that has been said in the media has not been seen or seen, I must admit that about the allegations presented today by one representative cannot recognize who this would refer to, but all that we have read from the media we have sought in the interest of protecting citizens' trust in the commission as a relatively young institution, to try to implement our process. All that has not yet come to the agenda can be expected to come to the agenda very soon. So is the Milanovic case that someone asked me about today. I have to explain here that if we are talking about how to enter into the business relationship of a particular business entity with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that thinking about whether or not the commission will deal with this matter has been based on its own decision. There was no application here on which the commission had not yet decided, and neither did the commission say that they would discuss the case in September but not before September because of the fact that each subject had to be thoroughly prepared. When we talk about deadlines, the fact is that the commission solves it faster because we owe it. As I mentioned those items when officials themselves on a personal request ask the commission to review whether it is in a particular case of conflict of interest of officials, and all cases come on the agenda when they are ready. So when the commission has a pretty solid basis for every word that can be heard in that public session, that is how citizens' trust in public authorities is actually built. This is why the media are present at all sessions and at sessions when a decision is taken to initiate or not to initiate proceedings. After all, it is the way the public controls whether we are all acting in accordance with what is expected of us or whether we should change our practice in one way or another. Finally, I would say that by relying on the GRECO's guidance for assessing the success of the Republic of Croatia in meeting the recommendations set out in the report for the fourth evaluation round, GRECO has committed the commission to take a more proactive approach in developing advisory and communication channels, in particular in the area of developing the content of ethics in the conduct of public duties and the preparation of the ethical code. This can also refer to the preparation of any future amendments and additions to this law based on the practice achieved by the Commission, as I have already pointed out, has something important to say. I thank you at the end for a constructive debate. So in addition to the decision to adopt or possibly adopt this report, I hope and call on the Croatian Parliament to keep the same level of constructiveity in these discussions in the amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest or the eventual adoption of a new law, and to really get into the right scale and core of the problem together to come up with the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4003	Thank you very much. We'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we'll have a break of up to three hours when we have the next item, which is the report on the work of the 2015 Presentation and Appeals Committee. It's 13:45.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4004	The next item is the report on the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest for 2015. The applicant is the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest for 2015 is hereby adopted." Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 118 are for, 4 abstentions and no votes against the concluded conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4005	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The theme is: - A report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2015. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. And I'd like to ask Mr. Zdravko Ronk, chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals to give an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4006	There is a report before you on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee is, or once a year, in accordance with Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall provide a report on their work to the Croatian Parliament and shall inform the representatives of the Croatian Assembly of the irregularities observed, the violation of the legal rules, as well as the rights of citizens in the proceedings before the authorities of the state administration and legal persons with public authority. During this reporting period, i.e. during this reporting period, the Committee held a session to discuss the performances and complaints of characteristic content, warned of adverse phenomena of broader significance and proposed taking the necessary measures to eliminate them. During 2015, according to its work cycle, the Committee received and processed 349 items, including 269 new performances and 80 repeated performances and complaints by citizens from 2012, 2013 and 2014. During the reporting period, the most performances and complaints of citizens were received from the area of justice and administration, 158, related to the work of the courts. Citizens therefore pointed to the length of proceedings before individual courts or were dissatisfied with the outcome of judicial decisions, the inability to exercise their right to adopt within a reasonable period of time, pointed to abuse of positions and corruption in the judiciary and to irregularities in the work in certain land-book departments. Presentations and complaints were sent by the Committee to the Ministry of Justice. The Committee has received and processed the performances and complaints of the DORHA jurisdiction., the ZDO, the ODO, the USKOK in criminal and civil administrative matters referred to them to the competent treatment. Furthermore, the Committee has received and processed complaints from persons deprived of liberty in Croatian prisons and complaints about the conduct of police officers. Similarly, the Committee adopted and processed the concepts and complaints concerning the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War for the duration of the procedure which determines their material rights, employment problems and housing. There have been complaints from citizens about the implementation of the money of citizens and their real estate. Written statements and complaints on the work of the administrative bodies and bodies having public authority, the Committee forwarded after processing to the relevant departments, depending on the content of the presentations and complaints. In addition, a total of 62 items received and processed on the board concerned the area of residential, municipal and property legal issues. There have been complaints about the housing of persons who have returned or come from the area of special care, the long-term housing procedure or the long-term application for... building materials for repair, renovation and upgrade of the family house or apartment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee has received and processed performances and complaints showing problems related to housing, at the request of former tenants of residential law, lawless construction, unlawful intervention of construction inspection and protection of rights in the procedures for the realization of spatial plans, arrangements from the jurisdiction of regional and local level, related to the arrangement of settlements and areas outside the settlements and the implementation of spatial planning documents or the issue of local permits. Citizens referred to this committee complaints on municipal issues related to the construction of a public water supply system in the settlement, gas supply, water supply, the depriving of real estate access to a water supply network related to the construction of municipal infrastructure, etc. Furthermore, the Committee has received performances related to ownership and other real rights, the problems of maintaining joint parts of residential buildings and the representations of individuals and associations for trespassing, excessive noise from catering facilities, industrial plants, illegal deposit of hazardous waste in the area of nature parks and illegal construction on maritime goods. In a small number of performances and complaints in the area of property legal relations, citizens indicated a violation of the property rights of owners of apartments in which protected tenants and problems of protected private tenants live, and problems related to the return of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. In 59 articles of the presentations and complaints, citizens pointed to violations of the rights of pension and health insurance, social care and the protection of the family and to the duration and outcome of the procedure in order to exercise the right of HZMO and HZZO and social care centres. From the field of social care and family protection, the Committee addressed a significant number of citizens due to the inability to exercise social welfare rights and low amounts of one-time cash assistance. Some complaints by citizens relate to the rights of underage children, to parental restraint and temporary restraint, and to possible violence against minor children. From the field of health care, the submitted performances concerned waiting lists, difficulties in exercising the right to the free choice of general family medicine doctors due to dissatisfaction with the work of individual doctors of general practice, by seeking bribes for operations and complaints about the work and treatment of medical staff towards patients. Part of the complaints the board handled were also directed by nurses and medical technicians with completed medium professional training that pointed to problems between them and the Croatian Chamber of Nurses. In addition to the above areas, the Committee received and processed 38 items from other areas in 2015. It is about individual performances and complaints of citizens complaining about the quality of services provided by legal and natural persons related to the public service sector offering gas, drinking water, heat, electricity supply, transport of passengers in public transport and telecommunications services. In the field of labour and labour relations, 17 items were received and performances and complaints suggest infringements of labour rights related to termination of employment, termination of employment contracts, possible infringements committed in the tender procedure, non-payment of personal income, abuse at work and schedule and transfer to the state service. Some police officers have complained of violations of labour rights by the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and of those illegal employment in the police administration. There have been references to this union committee and their commissioners acting in the bodies of the state authorities that have warned and possible failures in the management of employers towards workers. And during this reporting period, the Committee received a small number of citizens' submissions, a total of 15 which do not have the character of a play or of a complaint, in which no area was mentioned nor was the area covered. In conclusion, during the reporting period, the Committee communicated with citizens except in writing by means of regular mail, fax, e-mail. And the citizens brought their submissions in person, and the communication was done directly and therefore orally. In due time, it was answered by citizens in direct contact, so by phone, they were given phone and information and were consulted on the exercise of their rights in a total of 306 cases. The Committee has made it possible for all citizens who asked him to take their problems orally and subsequently referred them to the submission of a written submission to the Committee or to the competent authority or to re-interpret their representation. In the event of the administrative silence, the Committee has been hastening the competent authorities to act and end the procedure as soon as possible. In some cases the rushes were sent 3, 5, 6 or more times. The following should therefore be pointed out that, during 2015 and until the beginning of 2016, out of the total 349 cases, 327 and 93.69% of the submissions and complaints were resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4007	Thank you, too, on behalf of the promoter. I'm opening the debate now. We've got three hearings reported so far. The first is on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4008	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, in accordance with the last amendments of our Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we are discussing the report of this committee and the plenary session. And last time, I said that I think it's good that I'm still here because the report of this Board of Appeal and the performances that plague our citizens gives us a clear precedent about what is bothering them, that parts of our legal and other state framework are not working, that problems are facing, how they solve them, or whether they're solving them. And this is a good thing because this is one of the few committees that directly communicates with citizens. So as counterpart Ronko said in his opening address other than written statements and complaints to the board and receiving parties for discussion. So, communication with citizens exists, these plays bring to the Parliament and warn us that which wheels in the state system are not doing well. As in previous years, it is always from the judiciary and management is the most complaints, and speaking from the experience of a board member in one term, I can say that most complaints from the judiciary refer precisely to the length of the trial before the Croatian courts. In the work of the board, we have indeed faced very difficult cases, since citizens have been having disputes for twenty years, that these are disputes that seriously affect their existence, or other life issues. So these are things that are not good in our system as well as the fact that judgments, or court practice, are mostly not uniform. So, for the same things, different courts are judged differently, and they judge by the same laws and in the same state. How to even the case law has already been discussed in this House. But I think we should also have a report from this committee as a very good indicator, that we should continue in this direction. And what I want to point out here is the fact that some state bodies, some state institutions, are not cooperating enough with this committee. That is also the case when we are discussing the prosecutor's report, i.e. the prosecutor's office in this case. Therefore, it is said that among the bodies that do not handle the performances and complaints of citizens on time and after two, three, five, six, and more haste by the board are the Ministry of Administration, Construction, State Attorney's Office, Ministry of Justice, Finance, etc. etc. Now let me not list them all. But this is the tragedy of a colleague and a colleague, that the Parliament as the most responsible body and after the haste has been sent, asking for the resolution of certain cases to be speeded up to do nothing, i.e. deafen themselves to the haste and the letter of the board. Unfortunately, this is also a fact with some other institutions, as I mentioned earlier, of the attorneys, and the attorneys, or defenders as institutions, also chooses this House of Commons. Therefore, I call on this pay phone and all state institutions to cooperate with the board, that the committee of its haste, correspondence and requests is not sending to mind, sends a fine-knit card, or sends in good faith, because it wants to help citizens who are damaged for some reason. What should also be pointed out is that during 2015, out of 349 cases, 327 and 93% were solved by the beginning of 2016. That's gonna agree to a big percentage. But if we look at statistics, that's good. So the board did their job. But what is the ultimate outcome of the concepts and complaints, how much is actually solved to the benefit of those who have regretted, or how many problems are solved by the intervention of this committee. I'd like to believe that most are resolved even though we can't be sure of that with 100% certainty. In any case, the Social Democratic Party's Club of Representatives of Croatia will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4009	Thank you, too. Since there is no replica, we move on to another debate. On behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4010	Honorable Vice President, MPs, MPs. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I would like to make several principled observations on the basis of which certain conclusions can be drawn. This report should be taken into account in comparison with reports on the work of the Committee for the previous years, which are generally accepted unanimously independent of the political-party schedule. What does that mean? This means that this constituency committee is basically fulfilling its business tasks, and that the representatives from year to year are satisfied with its work, and that it is one of the few points on which there is even agreement. This fact should also have a special weight given the specificity of this committee in relation to all other parliamentary committees. In fact, this is the only parliamentary committee that directly communicates with individual citizens, and there is a way to participate in solving specific problems, not in the preparation of general normative solutions. Since I was first represented by a parliamentary representative, which means that in 2015 I did not participate in the work of this Assembly committee to gain better insight into this issue and the effectiveness of the work of this Assembly committee, I also reached out for reports from previous years, and for phonograms of parliamentary debates relating to this report. Therefore, which our conclusions are imposed on us with regard to all reports not only for 2015, but also for the discussions that were under way. What does it really mean to draw attention? First, the achievements and effects of the work of this Assembly Committee shall be limited by a business-specific part of which shall, in reality, lead to the role of the pigeons of the Liston between an unsatisfactory or potentially damaged citizen and the body of the state administration or a legal person with public authority who may be responsible for the unlawful conduct, abuse or disabling of citizens in the exercise of its Constitution or the law of prescribed rights. In this regard, and in accordance with the business restrictions of the Committee from year to year, it does very well to play its part as a dove of a leafbearer, no less, no more. The scheme's about next. An unsatisfactory citizen of oxy shall send a written statement or complaint to the Assembly Committee which shall process them within 30 days, to the competent authorities for action, and to the evidence established and made. A part of these bodies, as shown in the report, would not, in particular, look at this in a reasonable time of response which, of course, does not mean a solution to the problem, and therefore the committee itself, given the powers of the case, is in principle completed, statistically processed and placed ad act although it remains in reality and has not been resolved for a specific citizen. The answer has been taken into account, the procedure is ongoing as a bureaucratic flossule before which this assembly board is powerless and reduced except for the role of the leaf pigeon and to some kind of free state psychotherapist as well as a citizen at the level of the subjective impression can facilitate the agony and feeling of impotence before the ineffective and incompetent state administration of justice and other bodies which are financed by the money of these same citizens as taxpayers. So if we were to be pictured in an attempt to describe what it is to be the Parliamentary Committee on Presentations and Appeals, then we could describe it as the younger brother of the deprived business ability, the older brother, who is called the Public Advocate, who, in reality, regardless of some broad legal authority from the business council committees, in practice, comes down to a legal article that states that he gives recommendations, opinions, proposals and warnings that are not necessarily in line with the concept of a solution. So, the epilogue scheme I'm describing is a citizen, a committee, a government body, a citizen board, and it's not the only possibility. This report shows that, in a number of cases, this committee cannot fulfil its own in relation to citizens’ therapeutic role. Namely, in not exactly a negligible number of cases, the competent authorities did not find a corresponding parliamentary committee nor did they respond, and some did so only after two, three, five, six or more haste. To the extent that, in general, the state administration is powerless and the parliamentary committee of legislators is then in the same case, the position of citizens is more than helpless. In light of these facts, I would also draw attention to another interesting phenomenon that we can see with a comparative breakdown of the report from 2012 to 2015, which is that from year and year the number of cases falling on the basis of complaints and performances sent to the Assembly Committee, from which the unsolicited observer could conclude that the state administration in particular is doing better tasks from its constitutional and legal work, that the satisfied citizens are becoming less and less involved in helping the relevant parliamentary body. Of course, it is clear to all of us that this is not the case, but that dissatisfied citizens lose some of the latest illusions that solving their problems can be accelerated by means of the institution of representation and complaints to the competent parliamentary body, and that some kind of psychotherapy aid, moral support and shoulder taps are becoming less and less interested and are not worth a few kuna stamps, envelopes, and paper form A4. Another conclusion that is imposed on us from reading this or older report is that they are actually useful to detect burning problems in the functioning of the state administration, judicial and other bodies. But that is essentially not the task of this committee because the key question is how to effectively help solve a particular problem because each of us and without this statistical breakdown knows that the non-functioning of justice and administration, pension and health insurance rights, social welfare, family protection, housing, municipal and property issues, work and work relations are burning problems about solving that depend on the final judgment of the value and credibility of each policy. So, it would be inappropriate and it is not my intention to give a parliamentary representative the work and effects of the committee that I am and a member because it is limited to real business powers, but it seems to me that the debate on this report is a good opportunity for all clubs, regardless of their party membership, to try to contribute to the search for a way for this committee, and thus Parliament better contributes to the resolution of concrete cases from their knowledge, to help the government to be guided in its legal proposals and concrete examples, i.e. that the laws adopted here are a means of solving these problems and specific cases for one of the reasons why problems arise. I would also draw attention to Article 107(2) of the Rules of Procedure concerning the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, in which the provision appears to be insufficient or not used at all, under which I state that this Committee points to a violation of the law and other harmful occurrences of broader meaning and proposes to take the necessary measures to remove them. In other words, the work and insight of this committee should be an incentive for the Parliament to exert some kind of additional pressure on the Government and the resolution ministries which should be further demonstrated on specific cases because the institution of unconditional acceptance of reports by different state bodies, particularly agencies, and in the light of the report of this Assembly committee, should be abandoned regardless of party relations, and should bear in mind both them and the executive authority or various state bodies when sending those reports. Every actual debate on the work of this parliamentary board and bodies wanted me or not to discuss the real role and achievements of the Croatian Parliament as the Supreme Legislative Authority, and often reduced to an instrument for raising hands. In conclusion, only by reminding, therefore, objective restrictions in the work of the Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals, the report is more than correct and solidly drawn up, well documented and, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I give the view that it should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4011	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by an esteemed colleague, Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4012	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here I agree that the report is more than correct with a colleague, but there are two really great absurdities. The first absurdity is that our citizens who address this commission are talking out of despair. So, after the address, unfortunately, they're even more desperate. What's this about? It is a variety of problems and various segments of the problem from judicial, financial, etc. And about how the colleague presented things in his presentation we have a problem, we're going to note this problem, we're going to agree that this is a problem, we're going to send a resolution body from the state and public administration, whether it's a matter of judicial financial or someone else, then we're going to wait for an answer from a resolution body that we're not going to get, and we're going to send 3, 4, 5, 6, 10 rushes. After that, we will get an answer, we have received your question, according to this article and this, the item and that, unfortunately, is that and that is about the answer. And now this citizen who expected some treatment from the state, from the public administration, from this esteemed House can unfortunately only be more desperate and less believe in institutions and less believe in the rule of law and less believe that we are doing our job, which is unfortunately bad. And the second thing that is absurd is what I read and what I read that among the bodies that don't solve these complaints citizens in time are actually all the bodies of our administration and these are the bodies of the State's Attorney's Office, of the Ministry of Health, of the Ministry of Justice, of the Ministry of Finance, that's the great absurdity we've been talking about for some time now that the form is without content. So our bodies in the state administration crash. And I think there's room for improvement and that we can certainly, in that sense, constructively discuss and see where the room for improvement is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4013	Thank you. Are you responding to the replica of counterpart Hasanbegovic? Answer nothing? Okay. Then the next replica is the esteemed colleague Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4014	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Hasanbegovic, here I could sign all of what you said even though I am quite new because I was appointed last year only to this committee and I had the opportunity to hold only two sessions because we introduced them to be quarterly and not annually. However, I would not only agree in that part if we were just a pigeon leafbearer, that is, that the pigeon-bearer committee is because each time it went not only to that body that was apostropheeded by a party but also to the senior competent body or to the ministry so that we were given these indications. The truth is, we didn't get exactly what we expected, so you said it yourself two, three, five times, and that's certainly true, and that's more perhaps disrespecting the executive authority, or disrespecting the legislative authority than the executive authority. I just wanted to say something more about the drop in the number of cases, yeah, it could be interpreted as everything in the country is so nice that we have fewer and fewer objects. I'll tell you from my thinking that a little and 350 items are what the state is like. However, I think this is the cause of the decline in citizens' confidence in the legislative authority or in our Parliament. Even today, you've had a chance to see what we've turned into before the end of this first session, which we've turned our Parliament into. And then, of course, people will have less faith and less confidence in the Parliament and then to the Assembly Committee. So I think that we should, that we should take more care of the Parliament's reputation, this and the committee's reputation, and that the executive authority should respect the legislative authority more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4015	Thank you very much. Since there is no response to the replica, we are going to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4016	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I agree with all my colleagues before me that the report is transparently and correctly written and congratulate my colleagues on the effort to prepare this report. It is obvious that when citizens lose all opportunities and spend all other legal opportunities to report to the Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals. And that's what the subject is all about. So they complained about the length of proceedings in courts, the work and behaviour of individual judges, the abuse of positions and corruption in the judiciary, the conduct of certain land-booking departments, the state of affairs in Croatian prisons, the non-starting of criminal proceedings by the DORH, the failure to obtain information on the state of the case, the unlawful conduct of the official of USKOK, the conduct or conduct of police officers, the length of the procedure for the reception of Croatian citizenship, the difficulty in determining the status of the Croatian defender, the conduct of money, wages or pensions, the occupation and loss of the apartment, the execution of the procedures and the length of these proceedings, the recognition of the status of the threatened buyer, the violations of the rights in the area of pension and health insurance, the social care, i.e.e. rights related to pension, the amount of compensation for physical damage, and the allowance for other people's assistance and care, the recognition of the status of a political prisoner, due to the poor organisation of correctional exams in schools, the election and appointment of the director of public institutions, the cost of hospital treatment, the waiting list for medical examination, the housing of persons who returned to the area of special care, the length of the housing procedure, the protection of their rights in the implementation of spatial plans, the communal problems related to drinking water supply, the asphaltation of roads, parking spaces, the inclusion of the property of the cemetery and the like. Because of the problem of maintaining common areas of the apartment building, because of violations of the right to home, or obstruction of property, excessive noise, unpleasant smells. Due to the damage caused by the flood, due to problems related to the return of the seized property during the Yugoslav communist rule, because of violations of labour rights to service quality by legal and physical persons, to the fire-fighting activity or to the training of the public against fire protection. Due to the collection of parking in the tourist resort, the collection of the monthly fee of HRT, to the conduct of lawyers i.e. dissatisfaction with representation and so on. And when we look at all that stuff, we see that it's really colorful and that our citizens are really facing a lot of obstacles. So when we look at what resor(s) they're from. which the resolution most complains about is under the number 1st judiciary and administration of a total of 158 cases or 45%, almost half of complaints, the representations refer to the work of the judiciary and administration. The second is the problem of residential, municipal, property-legal with 18%. Third place of pension and health insurance rights, social welfare and family protection with 175. In fourth place, remaining areas, various complaints 10%. In fifth place working relations with 6% and ultimately remaining submissions with 4%. When we list daily media and in this Assembly, we could often hear the names of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors, however, 13 citizens complained about their work. In fact, 13 written presentations of citizens arrived in the Croatian Parliament related to the work of the mayor, mayor and mayor, i.e. 3.7%, or if we consider that in Croatia 555 units of local self-government, 20 counties and in every 44 municipalities or city were found a citizen who was dissatisfied with the work of his city or municipal administration. But what is certainly worrying, and what the Committee points to is the poor practice of individual ministries that must be sent 2, 3, 5, 6 and more haste to answer the question of the Assembly Committee. So here are the Ministry of Justice, State Justice, Ministry of Administration, Ministry of Civil Engineering and Physical Planning, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Defence, Ministry of Defence, State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, State Office for State Property Management, Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, APIS, Administrative Commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee for State Service. It is unfortunate that here are most of the ministries most represented and complained about and at least corresponded to the parliamentary committee. And the only thing I can say here is that the board states that he had best co-operation with the Ministry of the Interior. He would also propose to the board, given that we have on page 5 a single table, means a portfolio of performances and complaints to put perhaps several years back in the future so that we can see the movement of cases by the ministries, the resolutions whether they increase, reduce so that they may also make some views and conclusions for the work of individual ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4017	We only have two replicas in reverse order, the first of which is a distinguished colleague, Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4018	Thank you very much. Dear colleague that you have said the number of cases, I will repeat to you that in my opinion it is only one tip of the ice santa and the behaviour of the executive authority is not at all in line with those declarations they are saying and those which should therefore have the respect of the legislative authority. I believe that in the next period through this Parliament we will raise the faith of citizens in this work and that then we will also have greater respect for both the citizens and the institutions of some. Behind each particular, behind each play is one fate, one indignation whether it's the citizens, whether it's the most common family. I'll tell you one example I've had these days, so I got a written one play, but my wife came to my email, and she's been e-mailing me and today she called me on the phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4019	Maybe he's calling now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4020	Is that my place? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So she sent it, explained her case the following way. Her parents were robbed, they broke into the apartment, they took 500 thousand kuna, and the police found those who did it, and now it's bitter? Two months of doing absolutely nothing, and those discovered by the police continue to keep that money to themselves, buy cars, spend etc. The woman is desperate, she's been through every possible state attorney's office, municipal, county, she's been to the ministry, she's been to the occupier, I don't know where she hasn't been, and now she's asking a question, can you do anything? We'll just try to apologize for encouraging the authorities to do something about it. But I'm saying everyone's play is one hard human destiny. An apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4021	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Striker responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4022	My colleague here, I agree with you that each of these objects is a gravely regrettable human destiny, that all the citizens who have complained must have cracked all legal options before that and that all they have left is to report to the Assembly Committee. Now the question arises how many citizens have come to the wall that there was no will or council to send a play. And absolutely in this case I support both your position and the position of the board, that if you need not five, six, seven rushes write but also 50 to get an answer and to help each of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4023	Thank you very much. The second replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4024	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's my colleague, Strick, I see you've read this report completely, and I agree that it's a wide range of topics, and now our citizens who are looking at this are wondering, so if they themselves say that there's no point in this committee, then why don't they change something? Then perhaps the most meaningful and constructive would be that, therefore, to consider the purpose and purpose of the existence of this committee. We know by which rule, we know how the board came to be and therefore think constructively. Because we have problems and we're not looking for solutions. I'm always for finding a solution. But what you may have missed to say, and it is important that other than citizens the team is even more important so it is even more unfortunate that the potentially useful body is reduced to a declarative level, other than the citizens of this complaint to the board come from the Office of Presidents of Parliament, Office of Vice-Presidents of Parliament, working bodies of clubs, secretariats of the Croatian Parliament, civil service etc. So it's like two hundred items a year. So it's all left in this left-hand board that doesn't have a filter, and then it doesn't plan it any further, that's how there's no solution. So I would definitely go constructively to consider a meaningful existence, to consider goals. It can always be better, can be done and should also be borne in mind that last year this committee had 349 items as mentioned, and only one session. So I'm wondering about this variety of topics having only one session, maybe it's all in principle... put down to that one session. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I would still be more inclined to organise more thematic ones, because there are still a variety of topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4025	And a reply to the replica, fellow Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4026	Well, here's a thank you, dear colleague. I agree with you that it may take more sessions, but it decides, that is, how many will be called by the chairman of the parliamentary committees. I believe that all of us here are meant to help our citizens. And here's this appeal that I'm the chairman of the board would surely accept it and call for more sessions. And what I just said earlier, maybe you shouldn't stop at 6 rushes, but every month you write one, so I guess even in the departments and agencies, they're gonna give someone a hard time and answer. And Prime Minister Plenkovic himself, in his address here at the appointment of the government, made it clear that he would do anything to restore the dignity of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4027	Thank you. The next individual debate is her distinguished colleague Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4028	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This report is essentially very important because it deals with, therefore, complaints from citizens by direct communication and could be discussed on many aspects of this report. I only want to look back at one that I believe in indicatively, which will point to the problem this committee has and the consequences arising from its work. I have this particular item in front of me. It's a case of alleged suicide of police officer Dina Molnar from the village of Novakovec in Međimurje County. He was, therefore, a young policeman modeled to all indicators and testimonies. However, he pointed out such as his end and his job, perhaps not all of them to the problem of corruption and illegality in police work. One night in 2013, a car was found 2300 meters deep in the woods in the impenetrable snow killed, or dead, and such a big scandal arose in view of those circumstances that soon began to come out, that in Čakovec was rarely seen, I would dare say the unremembered protest of the citizens who protested, so on the streets of Čakovec to end the protest by lighting candles in front of the Međimurska Police Administration. What was controversial in all this is the fact, so not only was the car found deep in the woods in impermeable snow, but the whole series of circumstances since the officer had a hole in his forehead which was very, which never happened during the suicide, that he was sitting in the back seat, that the car had been broken in his rear window, that his colleagues who had made a very bad eyewitness, that his cell phone had disappeared, that his computer had never been found a grain with which the suicide was allegedly committed. And in the end, many of the citizens later testified, some of them anonymously, so that Officer Dino Molnar was killed. There were cops among them. However, the case is closed, the case is very quickly closed. No one has been punished and it has been said that it was suicide that, of course, the family of the dead police officer did not satisfy. They asked for some sort of elemental action to be carried out to confirm that this really happened, including postmortem and that missing items were delivered to the family if the case had already been closed. Their demands were rejected and the family was then rejected one year after the accident, and they submitted a request to the Citizens' Presentation Committee that they be involved in the resolution of the case. And the board's my job I have to say did very well. They analysed all the documents and issued a recommendation to perform an autopsy, primarily an autopsy on the police body and to perform some other actions to make this case a fair conclusion. However, nothing has been done of all this. All the demands of the board were denied, so that soon afterwards the mother of the murdered stress police officer would experience a heart attack and die. This was not the only consequence of the executive's refusal to co-operate with the legislative authority but of the fact that the father of the murdered police officer decided to seek justice at the European Court of Human Rights who accepted his appeal. Next, he asked the Croatian government to show up on this whole case by February 10th 2017. So was it really necessary for Croatia to be placed in such a position that the European court here now has to solve our problems when we ourselves are unable to solve them? And should it at all be surprised that the public accuses authorities of protecting corruption, protecting illegalities, participating in abuse, and killing their own citizens, of falling suspicions of the Ministry of Justice, and it is truly embarrassing that it happened. I repeat once again, I have presented this case for a reason because I think it is in some way a taste of all this that we have discussed in this debate and the work of the board in general and I hope that these cases will be resolved in the future before they leave the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4029	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4030	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. What we have heard from colleagues of Bunjec but also from previous speakers is well established that we have in some way one insufficient visibility and the Croatian Parliament, insufficient efficiency unfortunately and this committee. And why is that? Because we have electoral legislation that allows us to have sufficient close contact between voters and us who have been elected to the Croatian Parliament. Due to electoral legislation alone, it would be a good thing that fellow Ronko is right, to change that to find one consensus in this conference, to change it to make it more pronounced contact between those who choose us and us who choose our citizens in the Croatian Parliament. In this way we could better defend their wishes, their rights, their demands. Another thing that is very important, which is not in line with the spirit of time because there is currently populism and also in Croatia, which is the equipment of parliamentary representatives. This way they can't act effectively enough. When you look at it, and we know very well the work of those colleagues among us who have been in the Croatian Parliament for a long time, colleagues in other parliaments who have a longer tradition are better equipped, have their offices in election units and also in the Croatian Assembly regardless of the function they have but do not have in the Croatian Parliament to eat or in parliament national and can then represent the interest of their citizens effectively and someone can help. This way, we can't do anything but TV, do a little populist act and get attention. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4031	Thank you. There's no response to the replica. Second replica, dear colleague Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4032	Thank you very much. We completely agree, but the replica was sent to a colleague, Bunjc. I wouldn't go into it if it was suicide or murder, and that's why we're not in charge or trained on the board, but I'd like to say that the board also had a special session on the subject. It was the 9th session of 2013, I wasn't present, but I have materials, I have an archive, and there were gentlemen from the MUP present and the DORH manifest. What has been established and confirmed, with the DORH taking a position or informing the board that further proceedings will be conducted by the USKOK and... this case or more precisely by the board and who has chaired, counterpart Buric, this case has been concluded. You're these days, you've personally been looking for this item from the archives, I've delivered it to you or if it doesn't have to be somewhere in your office, the case has been delivered to you and if you think something can be done, yes, we'll re-invocate the session on that subject and individually if any of the board members or representatives ask for it. Thank you very much. And we will call again on the competent institutions and among other things, representatives from the USKOK who should have continued their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4033	Thank you. We also have a reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4034	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, I thank you for your replica, so I would like to conclude that the case has not been closed, that the European Court of Human Rights would not have again accepted the complaint, would not have asked the government to show. So I thank you for offering to hold a new session on this matter. However, this time I will prefer to address the Committee on National Security whose member I am and will try there in accordance with the new situation and some of the new elements that appear all over the case to try to shed light on this matter before the European Court of Justice comes to judgment. ... so that it would be good for Croatian society as a whole, that we would advance the foreign judiciary to measure this matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as I'm concerned, I've already mentioned, you've done your job well, but obviously for some reason I don't want to... Because I don't have enough information you didn't have the authority to bring this thing in before, the end before the unwanted consequences. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4035	Thank you, too. We've come to the end of the debate and I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We've exhausted today's agenda. Before we greet just one notice, tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 and we will put it on the agenda of the motion to appoint the acting director of HRT, so we must vote on it and immediately afterwards this point will be on the agenda. Thank you very much, and I'll see you tomorrow. The session was interrupted at 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-10-0.u4036	The next item is the 2015 report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. The applicant shall be the Board of Representatives and Appeals. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2015 is hereby adopted." Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find it unanimous with 123 votes to reach a conclusion. Here's a representative of the Hrelja.
