ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 4(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been my duty and it is my honor to open the first constitutional session of the Croatian Parliament and to chair it temporarily until the election of the new president of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all and congratulate you on the election for MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is an honor and pleasure to welcome to the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarović , Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mr Tihomir Oreshkovic and all present ministers [[Applause.]] I particularly welcome the Prime Minister for the assembly of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Andrej Plenkovic [[Applause.]] I welcome the President of the Constitutional Court of Mr Miroslav Šeparovic and the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Branko Hrvatin. [[Applause.]] I welcome the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the General Assembly of Mirko Šundov. [[Applause.]] I welcome the esteemed vice-presidents, MPs and representatives of the eighth convocation of the Croatian Parliament as well as the newly elected deputies and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] I welcome the present presidents of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Zarko Domljan, Mr. Josip Manolic, Mrs. Katica Ivanišević, Mr. Vladimir Seks and Mr. Josip Lek. I also particularly welcome the members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Ivana Maletic, Mrs Marijana Petir, Mrs Dubravko Šuic and Mr Joza Rados. [[Applause.]] I welcome Mr. Dinko Cwitan's attorney-general, as well as the senior officials of the security intelligence community of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] I welcome Croatian Academy of Science and Arts President Zvonko Kusic. [[Applause.]] President of the Rector's Assembly and Rector of the University of Split, Professor of Dr. Simon Angelinovic. [[Applause.]] I also welcome the present rectors of Croatian universities, the Rectors of the University of Zagreb, professor of Dr Damir Boras. [[Applause.]] Rector of the University of Zadar Professor Dr. Diana Vican. [[Applause.]] Rector of the University of Jurj Dobrila in Pula, Professor of Doctor Alfia Barbieria, [[Applause.]] and rector of the Catholic University of Doctor Zeljko Tanjic. [[Applause.]] It is my special honor to welcome the model Cardinal Josip Bozanić, the archbishop of Zagreb [[Applause.]] and Monsignor Željir Puljić, the archbishop of Zadar and the president of the Croatian Bishop's Conference. [[Applause.]] I welcome the president of the Jewish municipality Dr. Ognjen Kraus and Rabbi Lician Moshi Prelevic [[Applause.]] as well as the representative of the Jewish community "Bet Israel" in the Republic of Croatia rabbi Dr. Kotel Da-done [[Applause.]] and the representative of the Jewish organization Menora, Rabbi Pini Zaklas. [[Applause.]] I also welcome all other present representatives of religious communities in the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] I welcome the Governor of the Croatian National Bank of Mr. Boris Vujčić. I especially welcome the apostolic nuncio Alessandra Derika and all present representatives of the diplomatic assembly in the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] I welcome the main state auditor, Mr Ivan Klesic [[Applause.]] and Croatian Chamber of Commerce President Luka Burilovic. [[Applause.]] I welcome the Commissioner for Information to Mrs Ana-Marie Musa. [[Applause.]] Ombudsman for children Ms. Ivana Milas Klaric [[Applause.]] , and the lawyer for gender equality Mrs. Vishnja Ljubicic. [[Applause.]] I welcome the President of the Council for National Minorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Alexander Tonauer. [[Applause.]] and the president of the Croatian Helsinki Committee of Mr. Ivan Zvonimir Čičko. [[Applause.]] I welcome the President of the Public-Booking, Croatian Public Chamber, Ms. Lucia Popov [[Applause.]] and President of the Croatian Chamber of crafts Mr Dragutin Ranogajec [[Applause.]] , President and Director-General of the Croatian Employers Association Mrs Gordan Deranja and Mr Davor Majetic. [[Applause.]] I also welcome the representatives of union organisations present in the Republic of Croatia, Mr Krešimir Severa [[Applause.]] and Mr. Vedran Dragicevic, and other esteemed guests. [[Applause.]] I warmly welcome you all to this constitutive first session of the ninth convocation of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to the provision of Article 98(1) and in conjunction with the provision of Article 74(2), The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 5(1) The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament of Presidents of the Republic made a decision to call elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament held on Sunday 11 September 2016. Elections at polling stations at the diplomatic consular offices of the Republic of Croatia took place on Saturday 10 September 2016 and on Sunday 11 September 2016. On 26 September 2016, the State Election Commission announced the official results of elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Republic of Croatia shall, on the basis of Article 98(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia called the Croatian Parliament for the first session. I would like to inform you that according to the State Election Commission report on 26 September 2016 151 MPs were elected to the Croatian Parliament. According to the records, 145 MPs and MPs have been present so far. Dear ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address you as the President of the Parliament so far, and that is once a good custom with a few words. Dear ladies and gentlemen, now allow me to say a few words regarding everything that has been happening lately during the 8th term of the Croatian Parliament. Before we go to the agenda of the session I want to take advantage of this solemn moment of democracy to briefly refer to the work of this 8th convocation of the Croatian Parliament. The period in which I had the privilege of chairing this high house was also turbulent and politically different from the previous periods. It lasted not half a year and was marked by many wanderings in politics even though the moment was such that a clear vision and unity were sought and a union which unfortunately we did not bear witness to. Much of what we did in that short time, I am proud, but at the same time, I am deeply aware that we could and had to do much more and for many things I am sorry that we missed out on. Namely, the Parliament's Supreme Body of Parliamentary Democracy is responsible for all the good that has happened not only in the six months, but in the entire short quarter-century history of Croatia, but also for what has not been so good or what could have happened, which could have been better. The perseverance of the democratically elected multilateral parliament in defence of Croatian sovereignty and identity, which is crowned by the declaration of the Christmas Constitution and by the decisions which Croatia, under the leadership of its first president, Dr Franjo Tudjman, finally achieved both full independence and independence protected by the lives of 15 000 of its citizens in Serb aggression, hopefully also the last one to oppose Croatian sovereignty and national identity should be a model of parliamentary democracy. Let's face it, we haven't always been there in the last few years. It is precisely because of all those who have given their lives for Croatia and who we must never forget that we must be as Abraham Lincoln said in his day, "To no one he is wronged and merciful to all." It is not always easy, however, but we must be so first because of himself and his descendants. Many discussions in the previous session of the Parliament instead of about the economy, investments, demographic restoration and the most intelligent policy, unemployment and other key and life issues that plague Croatian citizens led to events from 70 or 75 years ago, and nothing concrete was done at least trying to shed light on the example of the crime that occurred after World War II ended. Since this is why there was obviously no real political will and there is no impression that it will soon be, I hope that this assembly of Parliament will be guided by the words of Adolf Suarez of the Spanish Prime Minister who spent the country's transition from the dictatorship of francism to parliamentary democracy, quote "For creating democracy, it is important to leave the ashes of the past alone and turn to building the foundations of the future." And we must do so not only for ourselves but also for our descendants. Because of our descendants, we must continue to develop parliamentary democracy. Because only in true democracy and respect for each individual's personal freedom to think and say everything he wants and believe in unless it endangers another individual. Our country can achieve all its dreams, dreams of a series of generations who imagined life in a free independent Croatia, dreams like those spoken by Eugen Kumičić in honor of the 70th birthday of Dr Ante Starčević, quote "A beautiful country in which we live and the sea, the entire coast and we all here and us all the rest of the Croats and our merciful and shining old always young Croatian, and that is our homeland. All our past, present and future, all our minds and heroes, dead and alive and those who will be born of a Croatian mother and that is our homeland."For this country nothing is and must not be difficult to do, no sacrifice can be too great. For this and such a country, we must be better, more successful, more honest, more tolerated towards each other, we must seek to reach consensus on long-term and strategic issues important for the survival of Croatia as a state and a nation. In a short period of half a year, however, some good things were done during the 8th Assembly. I am proud that we have managed to restore the patronage of the victims of innocent Croatian victims in Bleiburg, and thus finally end the division of innocent victims to ours and yours, one of which was obviously considered more valuable than others, i.e. to end the ignoring of European and generalization and standard of equal condemnation of all totalitarian regimes and thus the communist and the fact that crime is always a crime and only a common crime, regardless of what ideological cover is attempted. I am proud that the marking of the breach of the prisoners from the Jasenovac concentration camp in memory of all the victims and the crimes that took place in this camp this year was not politicised by political speeches, nor inappropriate behaviour abused for any political option, but was done with dignity that was similar to such an event I am proud that for the first time this year in the Croatian Parliament we marked the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. Namely, the decision to declare that day in Croatia is bad in June 2011 by bringing a declaration of condemnation of crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia in 1945 to 1990 expressed his clear condemnation not only of Nazi and fascist but also of communist crimes, but he had never been marked in the Croatian Assembly before. I hope it will be regularly marked in the future. I am proud that we have marked the 100th anniversary of the official, legal and institutional recognition of Islam in Croatia. Highlighting that Muslims in Croatia are recognized and appreciated as autochtons completely integrated, tolerated people and an integral part of Croatian life and culture that many of them have contributed significantly, is particularly important at this time the rise of religious intolerance in many parts of the world, including some of us very close, including some European countries, especially under the influence of the migrant crisis. It is therefore important that we offer the model of relations in Croatia between the Islamic Community state as an example and a solution for many countries that today have problems in relations between the Islamic nation and the non-Islam countries with the Islamic population and those with their non-Islamic religions. I am also proud that the Parliament has at least partly taken part in its decisions at the beginning of Croatia's economic recovery, which we are seeing because after several years of reducing GDP has increased, and the level of public debt has been reduced by around 5 billion kuna. I rarely wondered by listening to some debates in the House, if we, as a society, really want prosperity, social justice, protection of the needy and powerless, justice and mertocratism, or if all of this serves us only as good - for - nothing words at times when we need them, which is exactly what we should want and try to accomplish. We should achieve what Croatian literature's father Marko Marulić advised a long time ago, "Keep the meetings, advise the generals on things, in order, law, by law, by justice, make an honest initial decision. Let no passion or hatred cause your soul to die, and listen impartially to the counsel of the people who speak to you." If we always stick to it, I am convinced that this House would be more appreciated among the citizens it represents. In their work, MPs should be both proactive and courageous and always recall the verses of Dante Alighieri that “the darkest places of hell are reserved for those who retain their neutrality in times of crisis. ” And now these are exactly the times, and they are looking for a clear political response. In order to achieve this, I will paraphrasise Charles Pickering who said "Healthy Democracy Requires Honorary Society". We should be honorable, generous, tolerant, and full of respect for each other. Honor, honesty, honesty, denial of petty personal or common interests, especially of politicians and statesmen, can only move this country in the right direction. I am deeply convinced that this will happen. And I will personally invest all my abilities and efforts to help the future president of the Croatian Parliament and this entire High House, the future prime minister and the Croatian government to achieve this together, and I hope that all other representatives will do so. In this effort, you were guarded by all the dear God, guarded by this Croatian Parliament, guarded by all MPs and MPs, Croatians and Croats, all Croatian citizens and citizens and the only and eternal Croatia. [[Applause]] After these words that I had to say to the honourable lady and gentlemen, that the Croatian Parliament would be established in accordance with Article 74. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament with the presence of most MPs, it is necessary to join the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 5 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been established that the right to submit a proposal at the Constitutional Session for the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament has at least one third of the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. One proposal was submitted for President-in-Office's election. On the basis of Article 5(5), The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the President of the Croatian Parliament are proposed by representative Mr Bozo Petrov. Would anyone like to explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go. Dear Representative Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u232	Thank you, Mr. President. I will only briefly read the résumé of Mr. God Petrov, whom we propose today as president of the Croatian Parliament. Bozo Petrov, a psychiatrist who was born on 16 October 1979 in Metkovic, is also married to the father of three children. He graduated from Stjepan Radić elementary school in Metković, after which he graduated from the Franciscan classical high school with the right of the public, he graduated from the University of Mostar Medical School, a scientific postgraduate study Medical Care and Public Health and psychiatry specialization at Mostar Clinical Hospital. In 2005, he was elected assistant at the medical information and scientific methodology, in 2009 he obtained the title of Master of Science in the field of Medical Education and Psychology, 2010 passed a specialist exam and acquired the calling of psychiatrists. At the end of the doctoral study in biomedicine and the branch of psychological medicine and the defense of doctorate. Assistent on the subject of medical information and scientific methodology, a professional associate at the Medical Faculty of Medical Information and Biostatistics and until 2013 worked as a specialist psychiatrist in the Department of Acute Psychology of the Clinical Hospital Mostar. As far as his political action is concerned, it is known that in 2013, he was elected Mayor of Metkovic as the candidate of the Independent Lists and from 22 January 2016 to 13 October 2016 acted as Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I call on you to support this proposal, the proposal of God Petrov for President of Croatia, choose Boza Petrov as president of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u233	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing the debate. Before we vote, I would like to inform you that the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament requires most of the votes of the present representatives. Before the vote, of course we have to check the quorum, so please engage. I find that 139 MPs are here, so we have a quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make a valid decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Mr. Bozo Petrov as President of the Croatian Parliament. The vote is over. So of the 145 present 132 voted for, 12 abstentions, 1 against. I hereby find that Mr. Bozo Petrov has been elected president of the Croatian Parliament. I declare that, on the basis of the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, at the first meeting of the established number of present representatives and the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Assembly was established. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to pay our respects to the Homeland. - I invite all MPs and representatives, all guests, to honor Croatian First President Franji Tudjman, all fallen for the Homeland, for free, sovereign and democratic Croatia, heroes of the Homeland War, defenders of Croatia and all civilian war victims. - One minute of silence - - Let them have eternal glory and thank you – Congratulations to the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Boza Petrov for the election and I invite him to address the audience and then to take his seat at the Presidential table and continue to chair the session. Here you go, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u234	Dear high-ranking guests, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed ladies and gentlemen. On the occasion of the constitution of the 9th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, I would first of all like to thank the most warmly for the election for the president of the most important state institution which is the foundation of democracy in Croatia, the holder of national sovereignty and statehood, and the constitutional, democratic order of the Croatian state. Dear colleagues and colleagues, your expressed trust is my duty to approach this high and important duty with honor, knowingly and responsibly. I will conduct parliamentary sessions objectively, impartially and in accordance with the parliamentary procedure and deadlines prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You can be sure that I will timely and evenly include all your bill proposals or other acts on the agenda of plenary sessions. My mission is but above all also the duty of the Croatian Parliament as the highest institution to be the most representative body in the Republic of Croatia that will be maximumly effective. Be assured that I will earnestly advocate with your help, that the Croatian Parliament will indeed be a state Parliament in the fullest sense of that word. So also the highest representative body and the highest legislative authority and the highest democratic institution in the Republic of Croatia, and the main guarantee of the achievement of national and state interests, as well as the protector of fundamental freedoms, human and minority rights and all other democratic values. Ladies and gentlemen ahead of this meeting of the Croatian Parliament and the new Government of the Republic of Croatia, there are great tasks and serious challenges as well as extensive and responsible legislative work. The elections showed the democratic will of Croatian peoples and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and confirmed the voter's commitment to finally implement important reforms that will ensure economic growth and increase employment and standards, and to stop the emigration and extinction of the nation. This can only be achieved in the tolerated atmosphere of joint work, mutual respect, reasoned debates, constructive criticisms, coordination of the interests of all policy options and mature political decision-making with the rejection of impatience, exclusion and unnecessary divisions of each species. I believe that on issues which are of national importance, we will reach a consensus of all parliamentary parties, such as on many occasions in the House of Commons without strategically thought-out and measured political decisions, without a legislative framework that allows for quality enforcement and permanent laws, and without respecting the parliamentary procedure for the adoption of laws and other acts, there is no possible democratic structure of the country, nor a regulated rule of law, nor a uniform development of all Croatian parts, nor an effective and economic public administration, nor a solidarity society. By taking over the duties of the President of the Croatian Parliament, I can guarantee that I will be committed and responsible for continuing the development of democratic values and processes as well as for restoring citizens' confidence in the work of representatives and the Croatian Parliament. We MPs, as elected representatives of the people, are obliged to treat our mandate as a job with the responsibility of every conscientious man, given the situation in which the country is located and much more than that. First of all, we are chosen to serve the people, and each of us should exercise this responsibility with pride and full responsibility. I will propose all necessary steps to ensure such behaviour as by adopting and applying the Code of Conduct of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This should be our common goal if we want to justify the trust of the citizens who gave us in the elections. Our mission is to further upgrade the Croatian Parliament as a fundamental component of democratic power. The Croatian Parliament, in addition to its legislative function, plays a role in overseeing the work of the Government of Croatia and other institutions and public officials who are corresponding to the Parliament for their work. The Croatian Parliament is not defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as the supervision of the executive government to make it difficult for the government to work, but rather to increase the level of responsibility of the highest executive body in the state. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament provide for various institutes and mechanisms for the supervision of the executive authority which have not been used enough or has been disabled by their application, for example the Institute of Representative Affairs during the current morning as an important instrument for the control of the work of the Government, is rarely applied due to the failure to convene new parliamentary sessions. As President of the Parliament, I will change that practice. I will push for strengthening the role of parliamentary committees that should play a key role both in the legislative process and in the process of overseeing the executive authority and implementing the law, which was prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but was insufficiently applied. The parliamentary working bodies can significantly strengthen the position of the Croatian Parliament by working in regular and thematic sessions and therefore need to increase their participation in policymaking, supervision processes and stronger legislative activities. I will also advocate the expansion and strengthening of the Croatian Parliament's cooperation with the public, trade unions, economics, civil society organisations and the media, and all for the transparency of parliamentary work and the increase of its credibility. I will also try to ensure that the Croatian Parliament as Parliament of the Member States is active in the bodies of the European Union. It is our duty, within the powers of the Parliament, to represent Croatian interests in relation to a number of current issues currently being addressed by the Union. It would also be good for any such issue to have a unique Croatian position. I believe that in addition to the regular international activities of the Croatian Parliament there is a large additional space for promoting Croatian foreign interests on both bilateral and multilateral terms. First of all, I am thinking of promoting the interest of the Croatian economy abroad, which is also one of the roles of parliamentary diplomacy that I will use as Parliament President in all bilateral and international meetings. Finally, I would like to highlight two more important things, national parliaments and national legislative procedures are still, despite criticism, the strongest means of national legislative sovereignty. Although there are growing votes that parliamentary democracy is in crisis, the national parliaments in office of the most legislative authorities are still creating the legislative reality of every country. There are also instruments at European level that allow parliaments to monitor legislative processes. Under the Lisbon Agreement, as is known, the role of national parliaments in these processes has been strengthened. Those facts should always be kept in mind in our action. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am convinced that I will justify the trust you have shown me with the election of the 11th President of the Croatian Parliament, and I ask you to make all plans available to the joint forces, cooperation and uncompromising work in the interests of our citizens and in order to achieve a better life and better future for Croatia and all its citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u235	Dear Mr. President, please take your seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u236	We move to work according to established agenda. The election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Mandate-Immunity Committee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure lays down that the proposal to elect a president, vice-president and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall have the right to submit 1/3 of elected deputies. Article 117 The Rules of Procedure found that the Commission had seven members other than the President and the Vice-President. In accordance with the inter-party agreement, the following proposal was submitted: The Mandate-Immunity Commission for President Zarko Tušek, for members Domagoj Hajduković, Ivan Klarin, Nada Turina-Đurić and Miroslav Šimić, Damir Felak, Josip Križanić, Tomislav Klaric and Miroslav Šimić. I'm opening a debate. If there is no objection to those members, I shall conclude the hearing. I am voting on a proposal to elect the president and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. I'm closing the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 133 have accepted the proposal. I declare that the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament has been elected President Zarko Tušek, members of Domagoj Hajduković, Ivan Klarin, Nada Turina-Đurić, Damir Felak, Josip Križanić, Tomislav Klaric and Miroslav Šimić. I congratulate the President and the members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the election and I urge them to hold a session immediately and prepare the report in accordance with Article 6. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The session of the commission will be held immediately in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić 133. Until I draw up the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report, I'm setting a 30-minute break. I thank the guests for their presence at the constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament. I call upon them to join us at our home on the occasion of the constitution of the Parliament. Thank you. It's 3:55 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16,40 HOURS]] Just for a while, before we go, I would like to really thank Mr. Reiner for everything and in this way and to have done the past meeting of the Croatian Parliament and in that we have exchanged our functions in a very good way. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u238	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament at the first session held on 14 October 2016 discussed the publication of the final official election results for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia since 26 September 2016. After the Croatian Parliament decided on its disbandment, which took effect on 15 July 2016, Republic of Croatia President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic took the opportunity to call early elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament held on 11 September 2016. The National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia submitted the presidents of the Republic of Croatia, Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, a report on the elections conducted for MPs in the Croatian Parliament, which, during the deadlines for appeal, became and finally. The Committee found that 151 MPs were elected to the Croatian Assembly under the provisions of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament and 140 MPs were selected from the list in 10 constituencies based on the provisions of Article 38. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The three MPs were selected from the list in a special constituency based on the provisions of Article 44. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Eight representatives of national minorities selected from a list in a special constituency based on the provisions of Articles 16 and 17. Law on election laws in the Croatian Parliament. The Commission found that the representatives of the 8th convocation of the Croatian Parliament after the decision to disband the Assembly in accordance with the provision of Article 11. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament continued to hold the parliamentary mandate, and their term of office ended on the day of their constitution. On the same day, it shall cease to convene the representatives of the previous Assembly membership in bodies and organisations outside the Assembly to which they were appointed by the Assembly of MPs, which has been appointed conditional upon the conduct of the duties of representatives, and that day shall cease membership in the working bodies of the Assembly to appointed members. The following committee shall be based on Articles 6 and 10. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion: 1. On the day of the constitution of the Parliament, the term of office of representatives of the previous assembly of the Sabor, and in the ninth meeting of the Croatian Assembly, the following representatives were selected in order: Goran Aleksić, Ivan Anušić, Vedran Babić, Branko Bačić, Milan Bandić, Drazen Barišić, Milorad Batinić, Arsen Bauk, Krešo Beljak, Davor Bernardić, Goran Beus-Richembergh, Vladimir Bilek, Drazen Bošnaković, Miljan Brkić, Miro Bulj, Oleg Butković, Stevo Culej, Tomislav Ćorić, Bruno Demetlik, Tulio Demetlika, Slaven Dobović, Gorjan Dodik, Igor Dragović, Nediljko Dujić, Darinko Dumbović, Josip Djakić, Sašavić, Žojić, Bruno Žažić, Željić Željić, Željić, Želkožan Djaljan Žović, Žalč, Žalč, Žović, Žović, Žaržović, Žar, Žaržović, Žaržović, Žaržović, Žaržović, Žar, Žar, Žaržović, Žarživić, Žarživić, Ž. Under 2. In accordance with Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament due to the incompatibility of the parliamentary office with the simultaneous behaviour of the duties listed in the cited article The Committee found that the conditions for the start of the term of office were met with the following representatives: Stjepan Kožić, Matija Posavec, Predrag Štromar, Slaven Dobrović, Anton Kliman, Miro Kovač, Milan Bandić, Vlaho Orepić, Tomo Medved, Lovro Kuščević, Zlatko Hasanbegović, Ivo Žinić, Zdravko Marić, Oleg Butković, Darko Horvat, Tomislav Tolušić and Daniel Marusic. Under 3. The Commission has established that Article 14 has been complied with. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has obtained the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary term to the following representatives: Nedjko Dujic, Vladimira Palfi, Ivana Maletic. Under 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Assembly of elected MPs who have put the mandate to rest are certain deputies: Under 1. Mladen Hungarian deputy MPs run in the 2nd election unit as a candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's SDP, the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats HNS, Croatian Peasant Party HSS, Croatian Party of Retired HSU, instead of Stjepan Kozic. Under 2. Bernarda Topolko, deputy deputy candidate in the 3rd election unit as candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia SDP, Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats HNS, Croatian Peasant Party HSS, Croatian Party of Retired HSU instead of Matija Posavac. Under 3. Bozica Makar, deputy deputy candidate in the 3rd election unit as candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia SDP, Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats HNS, Croatian Peasant Party HSS, Croatian Party of Pensioners HSU instead of Predrag Štromar. Under 4. Ljubica Ambrusec is a deputy deputy candidate in the 2nd election unit as a candidate on the list of MOST Independent Lists of Most instead of Slaven Dobrovic. Under 5. Monica Udovicic, deputy deputy candidate in the 8th electoral unit as candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Anton Kleman. Under 6. Martin Baric's deputy representative in the 9th election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Mira Kovac. Under 7. Željko Lacković deputy MPs run in the 2nd election unit as candidate on the list Bandic Milan 365 Party of Labour and Solidarity, Party of Labour and Solidarity, National Party Reformists, Reformists, New Wave Development, New Wave, Croatian Peasant Party Stjepan Radić, HSS Stjepan Radić and Blok Pensioners together, BUZ instead of Milan Bandić. Under 8. Nako Felbar deputy MPs run in the 1st election unit as a candidate on the list of MOST Independent Lists of Most instead of Vlaha Orepic. Under 9. Marija Jelkovac, deputy deputy candidate in the 7th electoral unit as candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Tome Medveda. Under 10. Mato Frankovic, deputy deputy candidate in the 10th election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ, the Croatian Democratic Party HDS instead of Lovra Kuščević. Under 11. Sandra Kulic Makar, deputy deputy candidate in the 2nd election unit as candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ, the Croatian Social and Liberal Party HSLS instead of Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Under 12. Zeljka Josic, deputy deputy candidate in the 6th electoral unit as candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Ivo Žinic. Under 13. Ljubica Maksimchuk is a deputy deputy candidate in the 5th election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Zdravko Maric. Josip Boris is a deputy deputy candidate in the eighth constituency as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Oleg Butkovic. Nikolina Babic, deputy deputy candidate in the third election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Darko Horvat. Vesna Bedekovic, deputy deputy candidate in the fourth election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Tomislav Tolusic. Marko Simic, deputy MPs run in the fifth constituency as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Daniel Marusic. Ivan Šipic, deputy MPs run in the ninth election unit as a candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union of HDZ instead of Sunday's Dujic. Danimir Bunjac deputy MPs run in the third election unit as a candidate on the Living Wall list, let's change Croatia, Youth Action, the alphabet of democracy, the Croatian Democratic Peasants' Party and the Međimurje Party instead of Vladimira Palfi. Damir Felak deputy MPs run in the second election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ, the Croatian Social Liberal Party, HSLS instead of Ivana Maletic. In accordance with the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, pursuant to Articles 9, 11 and 14. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Articles 9 and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose to the Croatian Parliament the decision being taken: 14 October 2016 begin the rest of the parliamentary term of office of elected MPs and on that day the parliamentary duty begins to act as deputy representatives of Mladen Madžer, deputy MPs running in the second election unit as candidate on the list of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia SDP, Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats HNS, Croatian Peasant Party HSS, Croatian Party of Retired HSU instead of Stjepan Kozić. Bernarda Topolko, deputy deputy candidate in the third election unit as candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia SDP, Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats HNS, Croatian Peasant Party HSS, Croatian Party of Pensioners HSU instead of Matija Posavac. Bozica Makar is a deputy candidate in the third election unit as candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia SDP, the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats HNS, Croatian Peasant Party HSS, Croatian Party of Pensioners, HSU instead of Predrag Štromar. Ljubica Ambrusec is a deputy deputy candidate in the second constituency as a candidate on the list of Most Independent Lists, MOST instead of Slaven Dobrovic. Monica Udovicic, deputy deputy candidate in the eighth election unit as candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDS instead of Anton Kleman. Martin Baricevic, deputy deputy MP in the ninth election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Mira Kovac. Željko Lacković deputy MPs run in the second election unit as candidate on the list Bandić Milan 365 - Party of Labour and Solidarity, Party of Labour and Solidarity, People's Party - Reformists, Reformists, New Wave - Development Party, New Wave, Croatian Peasant Party Stjepan Radić, HSS - SR and Block pensioners together, BUZ instead of Milan Bandić. Neko Felbar deputy MPs run in the first election unit as a candidate on the list of MOST independent lists, MOST instead of Vlaha Orepic. Marija Jelkovac, deputy deputy candidate in the 7th constituency as candidate on the list Croatian Democratic Union, HDZ instead of Tome Medveda. Mato Frankovic, deputy deputy candidate in the 10th election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ, the Croatian Democratic Party, HDS instead of Lovra Kuščevic. Sandra Kulic Makar, deputy deputy candidate in the second election unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union, HDZ, Croatian Social Liberal Party, HSLS instead of Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Zeljka Josic, deputy deputy candidate in the sixth election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Ivo Žinic. Ljubica Maksimchuk is a deputy deputy candidate in the fifth election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Zdravko Maric. Josip Boris is a deputy deputy candidate in the eighth constituency as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Oleg Butkovic. Nikolina Babic, deputy deputy candidate in the third election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Darko Horvat. Vesna Bedekovic, deputy deputy candidate in the fourth election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Tomislav Tolusic. Marko Simic, deputy MPs run in the fifth constituency as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ instead of Daniel Marusic. Ivan Šipic, deputy MPs run in the ninth election unit as a candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union of HDZ instead of Sunday's Dujic. Danimir Bunjac deputy MPs run in the third election unit as a candidate on the Living Wall list, let's change Croatia" Action of Youth and Alphacede Democracy, the Croatian Democratic Peasant Party and the Međimurje Party instead of Vladimira Palfi. And Damir Felak deputy MPs run in the second election unit as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community of HDZ, the Croatian Social and Liberal Party HSLS instead of Ivana Maletic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u239	I thank the President of the Committee. I'm opening a debate on this report. Unless there are any additional reactions, I'm closing the debate. I give the vote the following conclusion: A report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections held for the Croatian Assembly and the names of elected representatives, the names of MPs acting incompatible with the parliamentary duty, and their mandate rests, the names of elected representatives whose term of office rests on their request, and the deputies who are starting to act as deputies instead. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote 147 in favour of, 0 versus, 0 abstentions accepted this conclusion. The mandate-immunity committee shall be based on Articles 9 and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of the following decision to the Croatian Parliament: 14 October 2016 the appointment of the representative's term of office shall begin with the elected representatives and on that day the parliamentary duty shall begin to be held by the deputies who have already been read in the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. If you agree not to read them again, you would have joined the vote. I am voting on the proposed decision. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously with 147 votes, the proposed decision has been made. Following a report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections carried out pursuant to Article 7. Rules of Procedure, I call upon you to join in your oath. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath and thereafter, by name, call the representatives. A representative, a representative when he was called rise and pronounces his oath. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will exercise my duties as a representative in the Croatian Parliament knowingly and responsibly and that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Goran Aleksić-prism, Ivan Sunšić-prism, Ljubica Ambrusec-prism, Vedran Babić-prist, Nikolina Babić-prism, Branko Bačić-, Martin Baričević-priprism, Drazen Barišić-prist, Milorad Batinić-prist, Arsen Bauk-pristov, Vesna Bedeković-prist, Krešjam Beljam Beus Richembergh-I swear, Vladimir Bilek-pristov, Josip Bošnaković-pristava, Miljan Brkić-pristrišm-Privazm, Miro Glažam-Glažam-Prist, Miro Glažam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Pložm-Pložm-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Prijam-Plad, Vladimir-Prijam, Vladimir-Prijam-K-Pjad, Vladimir, Vladimir-Pland, Vladimir-Pov, Vladimir-Plad, Josip, Josip, Josip-Pjak-Pjak-K-Pjak-Pjak-Pjak-Pjak-Pov, Josip-Pov, Josip, Josip-P-Pjak-Pov-P-Pop, Josip-Pop-P-Pov, Ivan-Pop, Ivan-Se-Se-Se-Se-Pe-Pe-Se-Pe-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Pe-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se-Se, Ivan-Pe-Pe-Pe-Pe-Se-P Thank you very much, everyone. Congratulations. Congratulations to all MPs and MPs on their sworn oath, I wish success in carrying out an honorary responsible representative's duty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u242	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u243	Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u244	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u245	Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u246	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u247	Happy Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u248	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u249	Dear Rostice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u250	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u251	Mato Chichak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u252	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u253	Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u254	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u255	Davor Romic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u256	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u257	Thank you very much, everyone. Congratulations to all MPs, MPs on their sworn oath. I want success in performing an honorable, responsible duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u258	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I warmly welcome you all. Before we move on to a further debate on the agenda, the advocates who have not taken the oath will now swear. I'm asking the rest of you to sit in your seats. So in Article 7. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, and after that I shall nominate the representatives. A representative when called rises and pronounces swears. The text of the oath reads: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Robert Podolnjak – I swear, Miro Kovač – I swear, Zlatko Hasanbegović – I swear, Darko Horvat – I swear by Anton Kliman – I swear. Thank you very much. I congratulate all MPs on their sworn oath and wish them success in carrying out this honorable and responsible parliamentary duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u259	The next item is to swear an attorney. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament in accordance with Article 7 I will read the text of the oath to the Rules of Procedure, then call on representative Josip Salapic, who stands up and pronounces the word “I swear”. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Josip Salapić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u260	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u261	Congratulations to the representative. I want success in performing an honorable and responsible duty. [[Applause.]] The following point is: 3. The election of Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. Under an inter-party agreement in the ninth session, the Croatian Parliament will have five vice-presidents. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure, "If five vice-presidents are elected, three vice-presidents are elected on the parliamentary majority proposal and two on the parliamentary minority proposal." In accordance with that article, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Parliament proposed: Miljan Brkić, Gordan Jandroković, Željko Reiner, and Milanka Opačić, Ivan Vrdoljak, from the ranks of the parliamentary minority for parliament's vice-presidents were proposed. Do the representatives want to explain the proposal? Yeah, right? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. If there are no further comments, I will conclude the debate. Before we make a statement on the proposals, I remind you that the election of Vice-President of the Parliament requires most of the votes of the present representatives. I am voting on the proposal to elect MP Miljan Brkic as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most 134 votes for, 10 abstentions and 4 against MP Miljan Brkic has been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations. Afterwards, I am voting on the proposal to elect a representative, Gordan Jandrokovic, as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause]] Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 136 for, 4 against, 9 abstentioned MP Gordan Jandrokovic has been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations. I am voting on the proposal to elect representative Željko Reiner as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 136 for, 4 against and 8 abstentioned MP Željko Reiner has been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations. I am voting on the proposal to elect representative Milanka Opačić as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the 132 votes in favour, 4 against, 8 abstentions by Milanka Opačić have been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations. I am voting to elect representative Ivan Vrdoljak as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Please vote. The vote is over. I find that the majority of votes 130 for, 5 against and 10 abstentioned MP Ivan Vrdoljak has been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u265	Thank you. I'd just like to say that the opposition isn't just SDP and HNS, and we've been praying for some places to surrender to us. There are seven of us, or four of us, like that. And there's not a single one here. our colleague listed. [[Intruder Petrov: Please!]] And I don't think it's collegiate from a fellow SDP, but there they are, if they like it so much, so be it. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u266	Unfortunately, this was to be agreed at inter-party meetings before the Assembly was established. You'll have to discuss this in part of the opposition minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u267	Well, we did. We talked, but nothing. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u268	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u269	In this case, Mr. Pernar is right. Yet he has his own club of representatives or a certain number of MPs who are here and should be someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u270	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u271	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Not only that in these two No, it's not. It's a debate. [[Adversity President: I would only ask if you have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure just say which article.]] So not only in these two mentioned but there is still a Mandate-immunity, etc., etc. It's impossible that neither of us 7 in the coalition has any place. It's unacceptable and illegal from colleagues in the opposition, and I don't think we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u272	What I can say is, three committees are being discussed here. There are a number of other committees, so if you agree with colleagues from the opposition minority then it is possible that you will participate in the work of the board. If there are no other comments, I'll conclude the debate. I suggest if you agree to vote on the proposal in the package. I am voting on a proposal to elect the president, vice president and members of the working bodies as proposed. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the 132 votes for, 4 against, 11 abstentions are selected working bodies of the Croatian Parliament as they are proposed. Congratulations to the presidents, vice presidents and members of the election. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda of the constitutive session. I suggest a break of 15 minutes until the materials are shared to supplement the agenda. Thank you. It's 5:00. 14 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in the invitation you received for this session on the basis of Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were announced in addition to the election of members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the choice of Vice-President of the Parliament and of the working bodies. Therefore, in order for the Parliament to function normally, I propose the following agenda for the continuation of the constitutional part of the session. The election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections carried out. Advocacy. The election of Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. The election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Any of the MPs object to the proposed agenda? If there is no objection, I shall determine that the agenda has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u275	Your Honor, I would like to say that logically or practice is that before the session is delivered to the representatives of the bill to be able to read or at least today when the Assembly is established around three, it means that we were given, and we received these proposals five minutes ago and now there is no theoretical possibility that we should be able to read this. I just think it's rape procedure, that it's trying to do something over your knee in a hurry without even knowing what it's actually doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u276	That's why I asked if anyone would mind. If there is nothing else, and a colleague has made an application for an emergency procedure. Is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u277	I'm making an observation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u278	Okay. I can assume it's probably for all four laws, then I suggest we vote on urgency for every single law. First, I put on the vote to vote on the urgency of the first proposal for a law on formation and the work of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, with the final draft of the law. Who's in favor of this law being implemented by an emergency procedure? Please vote. The majority of votes confirmed that the first draft law would be followed by an urgent procedure. Mostly 85 votes for, 45 abstentions, 8 against, the first proposal will go through the emergency procedure. I also put on the second draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the System of State Administration, with the Final Proposal for a Law. Please vote who's in favour of the second draft law going by emergency procedure? The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 85 for, 7 against and 48 abstentions have decided to go to the second draft of the law by emergency procedure. I also give the third proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal for the Law, to vote on the urgent procedure. Please vote who's in favour of this motion going by emergency procedure? The vote is over. Most of the votes were decided 86 for, 43 abstentions, 6 against the third draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal for the Law going through an emergency procedure. And the fourth draft law amending the Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Who's in favour of this bill going through emergency procedures as well? Please vote. The vote is over. I can say that most votes 87 for, 9 against and 40 abstentions and this bill goes through emergency procedures. Do you have any objections to the inclusion of point five, so point five is the proposal for a decision to appoint a lawyer for persons with disabilities on the agenda? Unless there are any comments. ... Intruder: There./... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u279	There is. Well, we don't even know who this person is, and I don't see why the evenness attorney has to be appointed through a procedure like this, I don't see where the urgency is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u280	The Ombudsman for people with disabilities has expired and will now only extend the mandate, so it is the same person. Unless there are other objections, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby declare that the day-to-day work of the constitutive session has been adopted. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm setting a break of one hour so that the home working bodies can discuss the laws, deliver reports to us. In addition, there is a notice that a joint session of the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system will be held immediately after the entry into the daily work of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament in the Chamber "Ivan Mažuranic", No. 84. Thank you. It's 6:17 p.m. Good afternoon, I warmly welcome you all! We're moving on with the session. In accordance with Article 226(2), ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament and of the Council I will propose to the Rules of Procedure the addition of the working part-session agenda with 10 new points. These are: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, draft law No. 5. – Proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and the HDZ Club 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on HRT, first reading, Bill No. 10 – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Journals 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, Bill No. 11 – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Journals 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Elections, first reading, Bill No. 8 – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Journals 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law, first reading, Proposal for Law No. 6 – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Journals 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, draft law No. 7 – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Journals 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Croatian National Bank, first reading, Bill No. 9 – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Journals 1. Presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the vote of confidence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia 1. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission 1. The choice, appointments and resolutions of the proposal to supplement the agenda are divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm confirming we have a quorum. 114 representatives present. We can make a right decision. If any of the MPs have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed supplement, that is, the point of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 5, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and the HDZ Club? Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u282	Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, Liberal Democrats, I voice opposition to the inclusion of this item of the agenda in the emergency procedure. According to our deep conviction, the conditions laid down in Article 204 have not been met. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as much as we are concerned about the fact that the current implementation of the law in the form of it has been in force for more than five months. In any case, we believe that this is a very important issue because it opens the debate on whether we are going to expose political parties to a greater risk of corruption or not. And therefore we think that this law deserves a thorough and serious public debate but also a debate on several boards of the Croatian Parliament. Please refer this law to the regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u283	Thank you. During the debate, these positions will be presented. You have no right to a replica right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just briefly say that all the legal proposals that they make in the emergency procedure are essentially numerous of these. Just this one this way. When we wanted to go into emergency procedure, then because of the opposition's demands, we basically put in the ordinary procedure the other laws. This law, which is now now proposed, is essentially a law that confirms that until now it has been political corruption, and we all know that together mainly you who have been in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u285	Thank you. What I would suggest is a vote on urgency. So I'd like to beg, so they put out the MPs who wanted to, and I'd just like to make a suggestion. Mr. Nenad Stazic picked it up, but here you go. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u286	I don't know... a breach of the Rules of Procedure on Article 33. The President of the Parliament, President-in-Office of the Parliament, is holding a session, giving an explanation, not Representative Bulj. So you asked who had objected to an emergency procedure and that he had objected to an emergency Mr. Bulj as an agent could say I object to an emergency procedure. But he does provide explanations as to why the Most or HDZ had given up an emergency procedure, it is entirely against business. I kindly ask you, I appreciate that you are new to this job, I appreciate that it takes time for you to get along, we will have patience, but be particularly sensitive when the people of your group report that they are not breaking this Rules of Procedure because we are going to make a circus... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u287	Just wait. I thank you for the observation, I respect the objection in part, but I also gave the other MPs the word to state the same in this regard other than the urgency of the procedure. They also referred to part of the content related to the financing of political elections promotion activities. Dear Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u288	Mr. Petrov, when you were inaugural, you said then that you would lead the meetings of the Parliament impartially and equally to all MPs, but unfortunately we see that this is not the case that some can violate the Rules of Procedure without warning and that they can speak beyond the subject without warning, and some who dare to criticise you take away their word and drive them away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u289	I apologize, since you picked up a plate with a breach of the Rules of Procedure at which point?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u290	Mr. Petrov, 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u291	Thank you. The second one's an article, but it doesn't matter. If there are no other objections, please let us vote on urgency. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the proposal on the urgency of this first proposal, the first item of the agenda? I'd like you to vote. Who is to be administered as an emergency procedure? The vote is over. 81 stands for four abstentions and 41 MPs are against this emergency proposal. So the procedure for the urgency of this law is accepted. Does any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda, these are points 2 to 10 of the proposed additions? If there are no objections to this point are included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u292	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. We're going back to work. But before that, we continue as we predicted, as we announced on Friday, so we have a vote on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Local Elections and a debate on the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law. However, in accordance with Article 226(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the constitutional session with one new point, which is the Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the European Council held on 20 and 21 October 2016. This is about an agreement between the President of the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Croatian Government, as the President of the Croatian Government expressed its readiness and desire to come to the Croatian Parliament and inform the representatives of the meeting of the European Council which was held several days ago. So it is about one news, and it is also about the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister to get full information on what was discussed at the last meeting of the European Council. So, we need to put that item on the agenda and I'm asking you to get involved to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum, so we can make a right decision. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the session agenda? If there are no objections, this item shall be included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the agenda are hereby established.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u293	We are crossing the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament in accordance with Article 226(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the first session with 30 new points. 1. Report on the audit carried out by the University of Higher Education for 2014, applicant State Audit Office, 2. Half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy, the applicant CNB, 3. Annual HBOR financial report for 2015, applicant HBOR, 4. Annual report by the financial agency for 2015, applicant of the Financial Agency, 5. Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2015, submitted by the Croatian Foundation for Science, 6. Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2015, submitted by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, 7. Annual Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments HAMAG-BICRO for 2015 is the applicant of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments, 8. Report on the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development for 2015, applicant of the National Council for Human Resources Development, 9. Information on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2015, applicant of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, 10. Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2015, submiter of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, 11. Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015, applicant for the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, 12. Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2015, applicant Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, 13. Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2015, submitted by the Management Board of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, 14. Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2015, the applicant is the State Commission for the Control of Public Deals, 15. Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2015, applicant of the Croatian Olympic Committee, 16. Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2015, applicant HZMO, 17. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2015 summary, submits the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, 18. Annual report on the work of the Competition Agency for 2015, applicant of the Competition Protection Agency, 19. Report on the operations of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2015, applicant of the Croatian Defence Fund and of the Homeland War and members of their families, 20. Report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interests for 2015, applicant of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, 21. Annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2015, applicant for the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, 22. Report on the work of the 2015 Presentation and Appeals Committee, applicant of the Presentation and Appeals Committee, 23. Report on the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, applicant State Audit Office, 24. Annual report by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2015 is the applicant of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, 25. Report on the work of the HRT Programme Council on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out by the HRT Act and the contract between the Croatian Radio Television and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015, applicant for the HRT Programme Council. 26. 26. A report on the work of the Governing Council of HIN for 2015. Carrier of the Administrative Council of HIN. 27. 27. Report on the operation of Croatian Radio Television for 2014. The applicant shall be director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television. 28. 28. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA for 2014. The applicant is Croatia's news agency. 29. 29. Report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2014. Carrier of the Electronic Media Agency. 30. 30. Annual report on the work of the HRT Supervisory Board and the implementation of the supervision of the legality of the operation and operation of the HRT for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015. Carrier of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum with 126 present parliamentary representatives and we can rightly decide. Do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of these points in the agenda of the 1st session? Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u294	Thank you, Mr. President. On 17 this month, the HNS and HSU Club referred to the procedure, in the ordinary procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. It's 28.10 today and I remind you of your address here when you were appointed President of the Parliament that you said that you would no matter what the motionary says, you would include all the points that have arrived. Well, I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u295	Thank you. So I'll stick to the promises we made. There is a rule under the Rules of Procedure in which the time period should be placed on the agenda. I do not believe that this agenda will be updated, so there will be the possibility of supplementing the additional agenda, so you can expect that your proposal will also be included in the agenda. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u296	Mr. President, I have no objections to the addition of the agenda, I have two questions or two suggestions. One concerns these 30 points of the agenda. I suggest that you influence the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver opinions on these points of the agenda as soon as possible either in a way that delivers new opinions or in an act that says it agrees with the opinion of the previous Government so that committees can discuss these points with the Government's opinion. And my second question concerns those points of the agenda, so the reports from the last meeting of the Croatian Parliament that have been discussed but on which the Parliament has not reached any conclusion either on the fact that it has not accepted the proposal to accept and no other proposal has been adopted or, for example, on the Croatian People's Bank, which is why they are for example. The colleagues of the MOST left one assembly and thus risked 500 kuna on this proposal at the vote. So to determine what status the reports are, do we need to discuss them again, so that the Assembly can draw some conclusion about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u297	I would have noticed three different answers. One answer is about speeding up the reporting process, or approval from the government itself, that is, if I can say here in this place that it was discussed in the narrow presidency where it was also a representative of the Government and their Deputy Prime Minister and they received notices about it. And of course they agree with that and that's what's gonna happen. The second thing you said about the reports, of course, will be rushed and reports that are already in the process, and I accept that. And the third thing, since you managed to fit 500 kuna, then you should know that these 500 kunas are not if you are not at the vote but if you do not come to the Croatian Parliament that day. Thank you. Is there anyone else from the MPs? Mr. Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u298	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you just, yesterday we buried the victims in Maribor, I think we should hold a moment of silence for those victims. I hope you haven't forgotten that as you forgot to inform the clubs that we could have gone there as agents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u299	Representative Misic, thank you for your address. What I must say is that the agenda is currently being discussed, I will only answer briefly that as representatives you must keep an eye on all the public notices given by the Parliament, so it is public that the delegation of the Croatian Parliament goes to a memorial in the Hood Cave. That part should be monitored. And, of course, if someone comes forward about the representative as they have reported that they will be able to participate in various events followed by the Croatian Parliament. What I'd like to ask now is to get back to the agenda point and that's to supplement the agenda. Do any of the MPs and advocates have any objections to the inclusion, anyone else? Unless there are any comments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u300	Here's my apologies, Mr. President. You did not answer the question of colleagues of Bauk about the 8th session of the 8th Assembly's agenda were included points of the agenda, in particular my one proposal. And my question... my point included in this agenda or does the whole ab procedure need to be repeated? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u301	Of course the procedure needs to be renewed. And what I'm also going to ask is that those things that were, those points that were on the agenda to be examined where they are now staged and also put on the agenda. So all that was in the last session, some things need to be restored. For that same reason, reports given by the government during the former assembly should also be given again and procedures for other reports or other points on the agenda will also be renewed. But, of course, everything that I said in the opening speech when taking office is all that will suggest regardless of whether it's a position or an opposition will come to the agenda. If there are no objections, I suggest that these points be included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. In accordance with Article 226(2), ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament and of the Council I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the 1st session agenda with 6 new points. 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing and deliriousness of the ministries and other central authorities of the State Administration with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 13. 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the System of State Administration with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 14. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, first reading, P.Z. No. 12, proposed by HNS and HSU Representatives' Club. 1. Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and Proposal for an Annual Report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2015. 1. Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2016 and a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2016. 1. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the appointment of a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, the Proposer of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. A proposal to supplement the agenda has been proposed and delivered to the benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum, we can make a valid decision. Any of the representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under points 1 and 2 of the proposed amendment. Representative Peja Grbin please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u303	I thank you, Mr. President. The proposal from the law under points 1 and 2 so P.Z.13 and P.Z.14 are the laws that the Croatian Parliament passed exactly three weeks ago. So 21 days ago we talked here about these two bill proposals and I think it's absolutely inappropriate to discuss them again today and discuss them in an emergency procedure. At the very constitutive session, that is, on the very day when the government of the Republic of Croatia was to be formed, it was absolutely understandable that these laws were passed as they were passed, and we clearly said what position we had. However, today after the government was formed, after the government began to act, I think the procedure of both the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Law on the right to access information and not these laws should be respected. So on behalf of the SDP club, I am expressing disdain for this, and I ask that the above vote be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u304	Thank you. Does anyone else have any objections? If there is no vote, we will vote on who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure for the first point of the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Circular of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the state administration with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.13. Please vote. I find that most votes accepted the proposal with 81 votes for, 3 abstentions and 36 against that item being placed on the agenda and the urgent procedure. I would also ask you to vote on who is in favour of putting the second point of the draft Act amending the State Administration System Act, with the final proposal for a law, on the urgent agenda. Please vote. The vote is over. With 81 votes for, therefore, most of them were found to be included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the MPs or representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 1st session? These are points 3 to 6 of the proposed supplement. If there are no objections these points are included in the session agenda. In accordance with Article 226(2), ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament and of the Council I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 1st session agenda with 19 new points. 1. Proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Act with the North Atlantic Accession Treaty of Montenegro with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.31, 2. Proposal for a Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of Taxation, First Reading, P.Z.BR.26, 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, first reading, P.Z.BR.27, 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax, first reading, P.Z.BR.28, 5. Proposal for a Law on administrative fees, first reading, P.Z.BR.29, 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax Advisory, first reading, P.Z.BR.30, 7. Proposal for a General Tax Code, first reading, P.Z.BR.24, 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, first reading, P.Z.BR.18, 9. Proposal for a Income Tax Act, first reading, P.Z.BR.23, 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscalisation in the transport of cash, first reading, P.Z.BR.25, 11. Proposal for a Tax Administration Act, first reading, P.Z.BR.22, 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions, first reading, P.Z.BR.19, 13. Proposal for a Law on Local Taxes, first reading, P.Z.BR.17, 14. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act, first reading, P.Z.BR.21, 15. Proposal for a Law on Real estate Tax, first reading, P.Z.BR.16, 16. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, first reading, P.Z.BR.20, 17. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, first reading, P.Z.BR.15, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, 18. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on Amendments of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, 19. Proposal for a Decision appointing the Executive Director of HRT, the Proposer of the Information, Information and Media Committee. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum and we can make a valid decision. If any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed supplement, that is the proposal of the Act confirming the protocol under the northern Atlantic accession treaty of Montenegro with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.31. In the absence of any comments, the proposal for an emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 1st session? These are points from 2 to 19 of the proposed supplement. If there are no objections these points are included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u308	Excuse me. Just give me a minute. So, just a small remark, we're starting with an hour late as you've announced. I congratulate you on your election for President of the Parliament and for all the elected. But it's not normal for us to wait here for an hour that we came in neatly at half past eight, now it's half past nine, we get the papers on the table this second and you say we go to four points united, I don't know which four points. Not me, but none of these people. So it can go into an emergency procedure but it has to be known which way we're going to get the materials on the bench because we're superfluous, if it's all agreed before, then go ahead, vote it out in five minutes, we're going home because this isn't an effective piece of work you said you'd be up for. I'm appealing because I'm waiting for someone here to say it, and I guess here it's normal to wait an hour and not do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u309	Your Honor, counsel, so these proposals have been delivered. After that the committees also passed these proposals and you always have the right to comment, it is not a problem. And more than you're needed, you're not superfluous.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u310	I need to know the matter to make an observation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u311	Thank you very much. Unless you have any objections as to the united debate, let's go with that proposal. The proposals are: - Proposal for a law on formation and the work of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 1; - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the System of State Administration with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 2; - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 3. - Proposal for a law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 4.; Act promoters are 67 MPs. In accordance with Article 85 of the basic Regulation, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You're a material like I said you took earlier on the benches. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that this and the legislative proposal should be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You will now receive the report in the meantime. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. He is a representative of the Proposer, Andrej Plenković. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. You have before you a package of 4 legislative amendments and additions made by the new Law on the formation and division of ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the System of State Administration and the Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials. This legislative package is aimed at establishing an effective system of state administration and implementing a programme of the future government for which we will soon seek trust in this high home. The new Law establishing and delirious the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration contain appropriate changes in the structure and workarounds of existing ministries and central authorities of the state administration. As you have seen from the proposed law, the urgency is that, in the future, we have 19 ministries and six central state offices. A new Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy would be introduced in this respect. The reason for the formation of the new ministry is primarily an unfavourable demographic movement in Croatia, which consequently has a negative impact on the labour market, on the pension, health and education system and on the balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, it is necessary to keep comprehensive measures of active population policy and, in particular, to encourage demographic recovery, which would be one of the main tasks of the new ministry. In addition, the family as a fundamental unit of society must be under special care and protection of the state. Ensuring quality, comprehensive and functional support to young people, parents and families who would facilitate the harmonisation of parental and labour obligations will be one of the main tasks of this new ministry. A new law aimed at rationalising business processes also envisions the accession of the Ministry of Enterprise and Plants, so the current ministry of the economy. The current Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection will take over tasks in the field of energy and the area of the water economy, which will institutionally bring together a part of the related portfolios. Two new central state offices in charge of sports and development issues of digital society would also be established. The results of international research such as the Global Competitiveness Report also point to the conclusion that Croatia needs to significantly improve the level of digitisation which is a key prerequisite for further development of the Croatian economy. In this context, it is proposed to establish a central State Office for the Development of a Digital Society whose primary task will be to promote and systematically improve infrastructure building, public access to Internet services and content, develop information equipment standards in the public sector and monitor the use of information and communication technology. We are all aware that the European Union's digital agenda is just meant for jobs in the future, to adapt to modern modern technology, and thus, in any case, to solve one of our acute problems, and that is the problem of unemployment. It is our intention to establish a central State Sport Office. It has been shown so far in practice that somehow this important resort, this important activity for Croatian society when part of the larger systems was left behind in another plan. We believe that at this point the time has matured that sport or sport has a special central state office that would then guarantee quality maintenance, its improvement, the improvement of the conditions for sports and sports activities, and we believe that the establishment of such an office would also come upon the approval of all those who work daily in Croatian sport for a number of years and I hope to have reflections on the greater inclusion of children, young people and adults in sports and physical activities and thus contribute to the health of the common society. When it comes to amendments and additions to the State Administration System Act in order to make it more effective for the central authorities of this proposal, it proposes to partially modify the system and upgrade it. The most important aspect is that, instead of deputy ministers, it would be reintroduced by state secretaries with the possibility of appointing one or more state secretaries within the framework of the ministries. Practice has shown that there is a need for the appointment of several top level officials in the ministries covering more extensive administrative areas to manage the work of management organisations set up as ministries. In this way, we believe that it will ensure a more efficient performance of operations and more operational implementation of public policies from the jurisdiction of a particular portfolio. It is important for the current deputy ministers to stress that they will continue to exercise their duties and exercise their rights in accordance with the current regulation until the appointment of state secretaries. The existing state offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be transformed into central state offices in the status of central authorities of the state administration for the performance of operations, conduct and implementation of public policies of particular importance for the efficiency and work of the Government. In this context, instead of the current head of state office, it would also introduce the responsibility of the State Secretary who would lead them and as the heads of these central offices of the state administration to conduct their business. We also propose to settle the issue of the establishment of the central state offices in more detail and the powers of the State Secretary. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Government Act, the proposal is replaced by the new nomenclature of state officials introduced by the State Administration System Act by the category of Deputy Ministers' category as a new category of state officials. State Secretary. In addition to the position of special advisers, the issue of the position of Prime Minister advisers is more clearly addressed, the advisers of the Prime Minister will be appointed from the civil servants' order and will be subject to the rules on employment and the rights and obligations of civil servants. The intensity of this amendment to the law is the professionalisation and depolitisation of a state service whose full implementation is planned over a period of two years when current ministerial assistants will again become state officials who are elected in public competitions and thus give motive to all people working in the state administration system for further progress. This is one standard and practice that exists in a number of EU members, and we would like to see it in force in the Republic of Croatia, and it is a prerequisite for the effectiveness of the state administration. Final amendments and additions to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. In particular, they also refer to the nomenclature in view of the changes made by the State Secretary, the Deputy Minister, and to the fact that State Secretarys become, of course, those who are the heads of the central state offices instead of the current Heads of State. In this way, we would ensure the uniformity of regulation of categories of government officials with other laws governing this issue, and primarily with the State Administration System Act. When it comes to the different regulation of the right to pay upon termination of their duties, the proposal for these amendments is that those officials who will exercise their duty for less than one year, but for more than three months, have three months from the day of termination of their duty the right to compensation in respect of the salary they make on that duty. For the next three months, they have the right to a 50% salary paid by an official on the job. So for those between three months and a year, it would go with the formula three plus three. For reasons of legal certainty, this proposal also stipulates that officials who have acquired the status of officials before the adoption of this law will exercise the rights of officials in accordance with current law. The only proposal in this law which is an exception, and it was made despite the principle of banning retroactivity. We were guided by the principle that the same legal regime was treated by representatives of this convocation of the Croatian Parliament, so the ninth convocation of the Croatian Parliament, and it was proposed that they exercise the rights in accordance with this law in order to bring the newly appointed officials into the same legal situation. In this way, the purpose, goal and political meaning of these changes that I have described at this moment would be fulfilled. We propose, as was adopted earlier today in the Croatian Parliament's decisions that these laws be passed by emergency procedure, given that they are governed by the structure and manner of conduct of the executive government, and that these are issues which are an important assumption for the formation of the future Croatian government. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u313	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The chairman of the Committee on Legislatives Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u314	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the Legislative Committee held a joint session with the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. I apologize for this, and the debate went on and on and on and on and on and on, so we apologize for what little you've been waiting for. At the meeting held on 14 October 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed these four draft laws and reached the following conclusions. The Legislative Committee, with a majority of votes, 7 votes in favour and 4 votes abstentions, supports the adoption of the Law establishing and delirious the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration and does not object to the proposal of the motion to adopt this law by an urgent procedure and to enter into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal. Also, by majority of votes, 7 votes for and 4 votes abstentions, the Legislative Committee supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration and does not object to the proposal that this law be adopted by an urgent procedure and that it enters into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal. The text of the final proposal shall be submitted to the Committee on Legislatives by the following amendment, in accordance with Article 10. In Article 10 of the amended Article 46(2), the words ‘principal’ shall be replaced by the words ‘Central State Secretary’. So we are changing the head of the Central State Office and will be managed by the Secretary of State of the Central State. Explanation. We'd like to do nomotechnically the statement of the law. Under point four of the Legislative Committee, 7 for and 4 votes were abstentioned by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and also does not object to the proposal by the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure and to enter into force on the first day of its publication in the ‘National Journal’. In the text of the final draft law, the Committee prides the amendments in such a way as to replace the numbers two, three, four and five in Article 4, in Article 3(3). We've seen this one nomotechnical error, and we're going to do nomotechnically, so we're going to do the law. The Legislative Committee also supports, by a majority of votes, 7 votes in favour of and 4 abstentions, the adoption of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials and does not object to the proposal by the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure and to enter into force on the first day of its publication in the "National Journal". In addition, the Legislative Committee does not object to the proposal by the proposing that the provision of Article 2(2) of this Act has retroactive effect in order to fully and consistently apply the new legal regime to all state officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u315	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate. The first one applied for a discussion by the SDP Representatives' Club. I'd like an esteemed representative of Pejo Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u316	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. What I must first say on behalf of my club of representatives is that we as an opposition cannot, nor do we want to challenge the right of the ruling that when the government is formed and how it will manage the state in the next period, based on the mandate they have received from Croatian citizens, the issue of forming ministries, the government or the summit of the Croatian state administration system. And in this context, we also point out that the rulings are also full of responsibility for what is going to come out of such a system that we are adopting here tonight ad hoc. In this debate, we will point to certain illogicalities and shortcomings, so I would go so far as to say the inaccuracies in what my esteemed predecessor was saying. What my esteemed predecessor did not say in his opening statement is the fact that these bills increase the number of central authorities of the state administration, so the number of central government offices and state offices is increasing. So the rationalisation of the Bridge and HDZ seems to be so that before they go into rationalisation there are 31 central authorities of the state administration, after rationalization there are 32. Fellows, bravo. After that, we're moving on, State Secretary, good work. It makes sense, often all my colleagues who were in Brussels know what problems they faced when they explained to colleagues from other Western European EU member states the difference between ministers, deputy ministers and ministerial assistants. And in that context, we would certainly welcome the Deputy Secretary of State's replacement, but that was done to the end. So that the assistant ministers and directors of the administration were removed, but it was not done. What's already been done? The decision was made to replace one deputy minister who exists in each ministry with several state secretaries, several state secretaries with the same coefficient, with the same salary, but with a far smaller range of jobs. And to see what kind of number this is, I'm going to use examples from practice. So until yesterday, we had 20 deputy ministers, and if we want to compare it to something, the only thing we can compare it to is the government in which the distinguished colleague Plenkovic, who spoke before me, if I'm not mistaken was the secretary of state that the government had 60 State Secretarys. So we've increased the number of central government bodies from 31 to 31, we've increased the number of state officials from 20, I don't know how many examples that 60 deputy ministers say and an even greater number of ministerial assistants. So, what are we doing? We spread state officials, we expand the administration. Is that the rationalization we were talking about in the election campaign? It's not. However, as I said, we, as an opposition, must recognise to the rulings the right to govern the system of state and state governance in a manner they consider correct. But we must warn of these illogicalities, and you will bear responsibility for it. I'm going to add a few more little things about these bill proposals that I believe have been created as a fruit of haste because in the last 30 days you haven't been able to prepare these proposals better. For example, if we look at the formation of the Ministry of Administration and the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society, we will notice a overlap. This is not said here, but about the e-Croatian Office, this should be arranged as soon as possible in order to avoid a single conflict of jurisdiction between the two central authorities of the state administration. Another problem is the functioning of the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society because this bill pointed to two hours ago on working bodies, you abolish the regulation governing their internal structure. It means that we are transforming and creating a new central state office, but from tomorrow when I believe this law will no longer be governed by its internal structure. That means he's de facto, no matter what we're setting him up, he ceases to exist tomorrow. Dear counterpart Plenkovic spoke before me about advisers who would be civil servants. Yes, indeed, this law lays down a provision, namely the Law amending and supplementing the law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia which amends Article 23 of the existing law and adds to the provision that only a civil servant can be appointed as a adviser to the Prime Minister for a period of time or a period of the term of office of the Prime Minister. That should be commendable and it should be supported if the esteemed Mr Plenkovic told the whole truth. And the whole truth is that no paragraph 3 of the existing law has been deleted which says that any person who is not in a permanent working relationship named a designation decision and not subject to the provisions of the rules on the employment of civil servants may be appointed for a special advisor with almost the same position. So my colleague started this exposure in a way that he was only telling the partial truth, which is why I am extremely, extremely sorry. And finally, the last law we talked about here, which is the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State officials. A theme that's been talked about a lot for the past few months. If I were a populist right now, I'd end this discussion, I'd say let's back it up because that's what we're going to do to make the pluses in public. But I'm not a populist, and I'm aware that my exposure can give me some criticism, but the facts need to be made known. This law does not comply with the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. The provision as provided for in this law amending the existing Article 15. The law on the rights of state officials, which abolishes the famous six plus six on persons who sat in the Assembly for just one day, has a good intensity and should certainly be supported. And this solution if only one were to observe what was derived from the legal order of the Republic of Croatia would be good and I would support it. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, this solution does not only exist. We also have a solution to Article 20. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which, at least for any other official of the state, at least sat for one day in this house, provides for a limit of 12 months in which the provisions of that law apply. And let me tell you how strict these provisions are, they say you can't run a turn for the next 12 months. Why? Because crafts are considered a business entity in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and you are not allowed to exercise management powers in business entities or 12 months after the end of the term of office. So please, I urge you to change this, but change it in a way that you don't make a point change to something that is populistly popular. Change the system, change it and other regulations that rely on this. And what I will conclude with, Article 4(2), this provision is similar to the provision that my majority have introduced in a law that regulates the rights and obligations of state officials concerned by the famous parliamentary pensions. As much as this provision seems to be good at first sight and as much as I think that the Constitutional Court is the provision that abolished the law that abolished the parliamentary pensions in particular in order to ensure that the provision exists in Croatian legal practice. The Constitutional Court's decision of 12 August 2014 said that this retroactive application of the law cannot be implemented and the Constitutional Court made it very clear to us in that provision that it will decide in such matters in the future. I don't want you to start your mandate with the laws that fall under the Constitutional Court, so I ask you to consider these remarks that I have just made to you. Of course, once again, the SDP advocates club does not dispute the right of the majority to adopt regulations that will regulate their functioning but the SDP's Club of Representatives does not intend to support the majority in passing such laws with all such errors as I have now stated, which is why we will be abstentioned when voting on these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u317	Thank you, Your Honor. There is also a replica to the presentation of the representative of Peja Grbin. He answered the word of Representative Miro Bulj. And what I would like to ask, if possible, is that when the performance is announced, the honourable MPs for the reason that some of them are new and they still don't know their names, so just for the sake of the record, we can adopt them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Grbin, the fact that you have the right to criticise from the opposition, that you have the right to say what is not good, but you have had an opportunity four years before us to change all this but obviously it was not good and what is not needed to change. And half a year ago there was a government, it tried to change, it wasn't good, we went out to the people, the people showed you and us and our colleagues from the right that these were the results. However, you must note and mention the state office, for example. for sport, and that's something good that should be. And do you know the development of sports? In my Dalmatian Zagora, in Lika, Gorski kotar and Slavonia, children have no conditions, do not know what the parquet looks like. You're from the urban center, so you know. This office will take care of both sport and even development of sports in all parts and should mention positive things, demographics, ministries, demographic restoration. So do you know it's 2014 through 2015. 35 thousand people less in Croatia, mostly in these areas, and mostly when your government was in 4 years, 100 thousand Croats were less in the Republic of Croatia. So, you have to give the opportunity, I'm not saying it's gonna be good, your criticism is good, and you need to be critical, but when you're critical, then you accept and start with self-critic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u319	Thank you. Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u320	Dear colleague Bulj, you are from the premise that you are the opposition and I am the ruling representative. Unfortunately, it hasn't been like that for about a year now. For a year now, you've been in the position of government, and all of what you're saying today is you've had a chance to spend. But you were talking about the state, or central state sports office. I never said a word to him. If I had mentioned it, if I had mentioned the State Sport Office and talked about the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society, if I had talked about sports, I would probably have supported it because I believe it is necessary to establish a body that will finally start implementing the laws that this Croatian Parliament has adopted, specifically which will finally start implementing the Sport Act. And if this body does so, then all the honor and every kuna that will be spent on its establishment will be well spent. However, my colleague Bulj, you have not responded in a single word to that particular criticism that I have said. Before this call it rationalization we had 31 central government bodies, after rationalization we'll have 32. I may not be a mathematician, but 32 seems more than 31 to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u321	Since we have exhausted the possibility of replicas for which the MPs have reported, it is moving on to the next Club of Representatives who reported for the word that is HNS LD HSU and on behalf of the club their representative, the distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u322	... Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] As my colleague Grbin said, indeed the ruling have the full right to agree on a set of laws that are before us and which we are discussing in a united debate for the simple reason that, as Honorable counterpart Plenkovic said, they want to have a more efficient and better administration. And the tendency should also be to invite every Parliament, every new government to be better, to be more efficient than the one that was before, because that is the only way we can go forward in Croatia. But let us show some of the dilemmas and some of the problems we see here. So me, we don't have any dilemmas, we at the club and I personally want you to agree and cut the number of ministries from 20 to 19. But let me put out one problem here, and the problem for sure, we'll see how it develops, but we appreciate that it could be, it's the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. Only when you see an article that is part of the ministry's work is it within the scope of the ministry's work from three former ministries. So the Ministry of Environmental Protection, in part from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, as regards the water economy and the Ministry of Economy of the former energy-related. That's three kinds of work. We really doubt the way this entire ministry works, but time will show whether we were right or wrong. And I'm allowed to say that I have the feeling that you put a fox in a henhouse because there are absolutely different problems. But it must be seen in another context. Indeed, we have 20 deputy ministers today, with this proposal, the bill that we are discussing will rename you as State Secretary. We'll have three ranks of state officials, so ministers, state secretaries, and we'll have assistant ministers. When we had State Secretarys at the time, we didn't have the assistant ministers, but we had the directors of individual administrations, and several administrations were responding to the secretary of state. There are former secretary of state here, so we know what we're talking about. So only when I mention these three groups of jobs from the Ministry of Environment and Energy are the minimum three State Secretarys, below that will not work. Given that these State Secretarys are at the same coefficient as the Deputy Ministers would be very interested in me, there is a PFU pattern when laws go, when they come from the Government then a PFU form must be filled out where the minister, along with the finance minister, signs that the law does not have any reflections and consequences on the state budget. I would be very interested to know that there is such a PFU pattern regarding these laws. Unfortunately, he doesn't exist and who would sign that there are no consequences because you all know well, in these lines there are also former secretary of state, and former ministers, probably and future ministers, and they know what we're talking about and they know there won't be a single ministry in which there won't be two or three State Secretarys, or let's see. We wish you all luck on that path, we want it to be more efficient and every government should really be better than the previous one. This isn't gonna be any better, but let's go and see. But I really want to warn you of another fact from this place. We don't have any dilemma in the club of HNS and HSU representatives to support an option in which a reduction is set and the pay is tied at the end of the duty to bind how long your duty has lasted. And that's good and it should absolutely be, but let me just give you an example. Let's say someone who's a lawyer comes in today and becomes a state official, and it's six months. For who knows what reason it ends, he'll get a full salary for the next three months and three months and a half and he won't be able to work as a lawyer for 12 months. So it's a package, and this law was to be amended along with the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and tied to each other. If we want to get a quality fit and I suppose the prime minister wants to get as much quality as possible to the minister's place, as the secretary of state, which, whether or not they're gonna call the assistants, even though they've assured us that they're going to change it, but they've been living to see it, surely how they're going to get a quality frame that's going to keep in mind that there's one sword over their head because someone needs to live out of something that they can't do something for which they're educated and what was his advantage when they got the job. Therefore, the Club of HNS and HSU Representatives will be restrained on these proposals but allow for this respected, therefore from this place your respected colleagues sitting on the right, who make up the majority, most are now the center and the right to really consider and that in one package of amendments and the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, because then it is a really well done job. This kind of work is a false message according to the quality of the frame I believe you will get, so please think carefully and as I said, we will be restrained from this set of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u323	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on to the next club of MPs because none of the MPs reported for the replica. The next club is the living wall, the alphabet of democracy. On behalf of their club, their representative, Agent Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u324	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs today we have on the subject the meaning of MOST's reform. It's that story meaning the man behind me named Bozo Petrov and often he told us all about the reform of the administration. What we have a chance to see today is that reforming the administration is actually going to make these bureaucrats more, not less. And the intensity of the public image is the other way around. I'd like to explain what my experience with the Ministry of Administration was under the control of Mr. God Petrov, or MOST. Although so far has been the practice of the Ministry of Administration to allow the registration of parties with the name, e.g. HSS Stjepan Radic or HSP Ante Starcevic despite the fact that there are already parties both HSS and HSS. When a request for registration is made for the ZID, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, the lady's wife means the minister, or her assistant within the ministry under her control, rejected the request. For what? Mr. Petrov, we're talking about reforming the administration. [[I'm sorry, but I'd like to ask the honourable representative to stick to the subject.]] You're talking here, and we have experience with the Department of Administration because in the end, I'm going to point out how hypocritical you are. You can take my word if you want, I'll go back to the place Mr. Petrov, will you let me speak or not? [[Adversity President: I have no intention of taking away your representative's word, but I think it's the bill's proposals and it's the topic of the current debate.]] If you don't, I'll go back. The second experience we had with the Most was next. [[The Intruder President: Yes, I only hope you will stick to the topic.]] So, we filed a request for a party registration on the only option. And what does the ministry do? Even though it's always been for the parties to meet by now, the moment the team connected to the Living Wall gave us that request, it didn't come out to us. Mr. Petrov, you went to elections with a story about how there is a group of people who are corrupt, that there is a group of people, or a set of individuals with private interests. [[I am asking you to stick to the subject or I will have to take away your word.]] And most importantly, who is dishonest and who does not make his decisions equally to everyone but is biased. His behaviour towards us, the Department of Administration, was biased. Your rhetoric before the election and now it reminds me of an event described in Orwell's book "The Animal Farm". In that book...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u325	.../Invader President: Mr Pernar I give you the first warning under Article 239. I ask you not to insist further that I take notice by taking away words. I'm asking you and warning you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u326	Mr. Petrov, I have 15 minutes, but if you won't let me speak, if you take away my right, if you take away my right, I will accept your will this time. .../Intruder President: Here I would like to ask the honourable representative I understand that today is a constitutional session, I know you have failed to get a chance to study the Rules of Procedure before, but the moment you take the word of those 15 minutes you have at your disposal stick to the topic for this debate. And I'd like to ask you to focus on the subject. Mr. Petrov, are you trying to tell me that you're going to tell me what I'm going to talk about reforming the administration you're conducting. I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u327	.../Intruder President: Here's how, I'm really sorry, but here I have to take away your notice by taking away the words for reasons you don't need to polemize. I'm asking you to go back to your seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u328	Mr. Petrov, congratulations on democracy. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u329	The next of the clubs to report for a word in this debate is the SDSS Representative Club, their representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u330	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, let me say that it seems to me that the bill from the government that we have received is more content than the government programme that we received a year ago here in the House's benches, and we are in fact finding that it is a significant improvement in what is coming to us in the House. As far as the content and structure offered by the Law on Government and the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party is concerned, it would welcome the fact that two new central state offices, the sport one and the one on digital society are being formed. It is extremely important to pay more attention to sport in terms of which he spoke to his colleague, Grbin. So on the consistent application of the Sport Act in order to finally introduce legality in the field. And on the other hand, it is particularly important that in these indications for which, which are not only a matter of forming the work of government bodies, ministries and state offices, we actually have elements of the content of what this body is going to do. Encouraging amateurism, promoting recreational and any other sport as assumptions for health and as assumptions for dispersion in sport is something that has been neglected in the Republic of Croatia for years. Come, for example, to Zadar, which is a cradle, let not be angry with Zagreb, let not be angry with Split, which is the cradle of basketball. If you come to basketball courts that were once full of young people who waited hours to get in line to get into the game, for hours. Today when you come to the playgrounds downtown, you won't find anyone waiting to play the game. This is the result of the fact that our sport takes place between one side of the gym or gym and on the other hand between what is called a top sport and which is far away, far from what citizens need. If these two things are achieved it will be a big and important thing. Similarly, you could talk about digital society even more, but I'm going to move on to another one that seems important to me. counterpart Ana Mrak Taritas mentioned the issue of energy on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. Is it really a question of whether energy should go with the environment? I know that you and the negotiations had significant discussions about this issue. And there aren't many societies where it's so that energy belongs to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and that's true. But if it is thought here that the energy issue will also be seen from the perspective of environmental protection and that energy policy will be monitored in the context of this kind of policy then let us give the opportunity to succeed. It is precisely because we know that in many places things happen when energy projects and energy programmes are far from protecting the environment that are far from protecting any natural environment, regardless of whether they are classical forms of energy to thermal power plants, for example. or it's about new forms of energy coming in like wind power plants. In any case, almost no account is taken of environmental protection. I could give examples, but I'm not going to abuse this pay phone here when the debate on the government program comes, there might be more words about it. So no matter what he has to ask about it, but let's give it a chance just for your own good. As for the new ministry, or the extension of the authority of the Ministry of Family and Youth with Demography, this is a significant thing, not only because of the current difficulties in which our society with the outflow of the population is located but because of the fact that we are a society that has been unable to prepare for 25 years to have to accept people coming from other or third countries or other or third parts of the world. We will have to prepare ourselves to receive people who will come as a labor force or come by some other basis in our country. And that is why long-term policy is needed. When migration and immigration flows are involved, we must have a planned policy and we must have a ministry or part of the ministry to deal with it. All countries that take care of their development, which is what they have to have. And another thing that is particularly important for Croatia is that certain parts of the Republic become released. A few days ago, I was in the area of the city of Clay, which had 24 thousand inhabitants until the war, today there are 9,000. I visited an area of several villages along the border with BiH, 50km of square surfaces. Do you know how many residents? 34 people with an average age in the entire city of Gline of 53 years, and in this area even more drastically, not mentioning people leaving. Therefore, an unfavourable demographic picture of age and an unfavourable assumption that people remain on it, poses a huge risk of national security in certain areas, economic prosperity in certain areas and the quality of life of the people who remain there and, of course, the fact that the state will have to reach for the means in order to enable them to survive in those areas at all. For this reason we welcome the fact that the government has decided to direct it, I hope not only in response to the lamentations that are being heard that people are leaving us, but to a productive and long-term concept of how and how we will actually work to stop negative demographic trends. As for the formation of the government, especially this issue of state secretaries, based on the experience of people who were members of the government, who were members of the government, it is shown that the function of state secretaries is much more operational, much more functional than the post of deputy minister. The deputy minister, unfortunately as an institute, was between the minister and the assistant, and then it could have been that more power and influence on the decisions and procedures of the ministerial assistant had actually been the secretary of the minister than his deputy. Not to mention the head of the cabinet of the minister or secretary of the ministry than the deputy minister could have. For this reason, we feel it is much better, much more functional that the secretary of state who has strict powers for certain areas or for the entire ministry or for certain parts of the ministry leads and has direct responsibility and does not wait for the minister to assign him something. And for this reason, we think that it is also a solution that can strengthen the functionality of the ministries, and of course, after two years, this arrogant, hybrid situation where the assistant ministers will remain changed and the competition will be chosen by the directors who will lead their administrations. Finally, as regards the rights of officials, all those who were on the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure agreed to a joint session with the Legislative Committee, we agreed that such a system under which someone, after a day or three days, was conducted in the Assembly or at another office after that, could have six plus six months' salary that it is unsustainable and there is no dispute about it. But there is a dispute over when it comes to harmonising these changes with the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. And that needs to be harmonised. And this amendment, which has been tabled by part of the colleagues on the Committee on the Constitution, this House should be adopted and the proposings should be accepted. Now I would like to say something more here about this, especially colleagues who think that this will ensure a level playing field, as is often mentioned through the proposals of the law by representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Some of these measures are necessary but one thing I'm going to say, the state is doing its staff. And circumstances where everyone else has more power than the state and privates and the church and the media if we weaken the staff of state institutions and everyone else has more money to pay the ones they need then the best will go where they get the highest salary. And what will be left of us? What will remain for those who advocate that the state retain its power and be in the interest of the citizens? It will remain the worst with the worst grades in the studies, with the worst habits. Is that the point? Is this how we're going to ensure the state's integrity and functionality? No, I don't. So let's be careful with that. It can't be the object of liking or not liking the public. This thing has to be designed and it has to be long-term because otherwise, you know, we can cancel those thousands and 500 kunas and who's gonna help them prepare the sessions? One of my colleagues says, well, you know, we were together in the European Parliament, so you saw how it works. Yes, but in the European Parliament, MPs have several assistants and advisers, and here ours don't even have a table. Ours don't even have a table, let alone someone who'll prepare them to study these five laws by Monday and the consequences and consequences of each of these five laws. You know. I don't even have my club have the money to hire three lawyers and a law professor but someone who's in the sphere, for example. He's got money to pay a year's worth of law school professors to make him a law to suit him, I speak plainly. If we're not going to strengthen the Institute of Representatives, then we're not going to protect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u331	The first one was answered by a respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u332	My dear colleague, I'll leave from the end. While you were talking about the number of laws we need to prepare for Monday, it increased by 5 to 7, so here you have that in mind. However, one other thing I wanted to tell you is when we talk about the Central State Sports Office. I would, however, ask that we wait a little with these praises and hopes that this Central State Office will fully realise our aspirations and what we want to really have a good reason to isolate it from the ministry in the central state office. But this text, which you have spoken of and this text that you have mentioned both amateurism and everything else that is listed as the scope of the Central State Office's work is literally written from word to word from the provisions of the existing Government Act or central government bodies in the part in which so far it has been the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And you and I both know what it's like with the same powers, with the same framework that Minister Sustar did and what he did for Croatian sport. So my request is just to wait with praises before we see if this body comes to life, whether it achieves its purpose or becomes or remains just another service to Shuker, Mamic, Mateshi and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u333	Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u334	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed colleagues of Grbin, so they weren't very grateful but for the one who received the government programme a few days ago and read it to the same one who received the Law on Government and read it today, so the difference is just so that this text of the Government Act is more relevant than he was in that case the Government's programme. And as an agent, not only do I have to admit, but I have to commend. Regardless of what I may not agree with everything and when Wednesday this element of the Sport Act is the fact that it is a big deal is that in the Ministry of Science and Education it was treated as a 13th pig. Here is Minister Jovanovic, who tried to do something about it, or our colleague Jovanovic, the only one, the rest treated it about as the 13th pig. OK, the central state office is responding to the prime minister and the prime minister is directly responsible for it along with the competent minister. And that gives us reason to believe that it will still be treated differently and more successfully than it has ever been. This way, put somewhere in the corner of the ministry, thank you, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u335	The next person to report on Mr. Pupovac's exposure is Honorable representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it looks like our sport is a little bit more on the subject than usual, which is good. I just got off the phone about what you were saying, Mr. Pupovac, and you said why everything is an important sport, especially for the sake of health, so please, I didn't write a special amendment that says here what this central state office is going to do, which is a good idea. And we've been thinking about it. So let it start from the beginning well. So Croatia has recently hosted the European University Sports Games and this is the best host in the history of games, but there is no specific university sport listed anywhere. If listed in school, then a tax and university sport should be listed as something to deal with in this central office, the State Sport Office. And of course, at the same time as establishing this office, we should also go into the reform of the Croatian Olympic Committee, we should team up this central state office so that this is not just one declarative action that will not have and achieve the preconditions that this office can work because it will remain the 13th pig only now will it not be in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports but will be singled out. And also when I answered my question, I would ask you to even the text in Article 17, because in science-related works, you state that it will also deal with the implementation of national strategies while it does not say so in the field of education. So the national strategy for the development of education, science and technology adopted by the Parliament is also for preschool education, and for science, so that the text should be uniform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u337	Thank you. And the next last person to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u338	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Pupovac, you have touched the mergers of the Ministry of Environmental Protection with energy. You have in principle expressed a positive view about this merger, but I personally have a dilemma about it because I believe that when we talk about it, we must mention the economy. You know the fundamental pursuit of the economy is competitiveness. The more products are in the unit of time and that the added value would be as high as possible and that can only be achieved with cheap energy above all. And I think that this ministry and, in fact, the future minister, everyone who works will come into conflict with themselves to express myself that way because on the one hand, they will have a tendency to achieve, and in particular, that they will create an energy strategy, as much energy as possible, cheap energy and on the other hand it is about protecting the environment that more or less any such tendency is unacceptable. Because if we put those two opposing sides in one ministry, I think its efficiency will be in so much less in my opinion. Every Ministry of Environmental Protection must monitor the processes that are happening but that it only prescribes these processes, that it develops them as strategies simply think it will be quite difficult in practice. Here's my replica of your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u339	Thank you, Representative Sagar. We can move on. The next club of MPs to report for the word is the club of representatives of the HSS. On behalf of them, representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u340	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. I am using the opportunity here on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and to congratulate on my behalf all elected Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament, all of you, the President of the Croatian Parliament, vice presidents and wish them successful work. In this apartment, in contact with our fellow citizens, they welcome the constitution of the Parliament, that it has begun to work and greet that here and after 21 hours. In this way, we show by example that we have taken this assembly of ours seriously, our participation in it, and that we want to finally do something to improve all our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. In this context, this set of laws gives the right to promoters to adopt laws in an urgent, urgent procedure so that the government can form and the government can work. But here I also agree with previous colleagues who said that since this set of laws was agreed between coalition partners five, six days ago, it was possible to send itself to political parties in electronic form, so we could prepare ourselves better for today's debates. But here's what I understand and I appreciate that maybe there's something else going on and that we just got this set of laws in front of us right now. Within the framework of the future government and competent ministries, a reduction from 20 to 19 speaks nicely is going towards savings, towards a reduction in the number of ministries. However, I am sorry, me and us from the HSS, that the Ministry of crafts, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is connecting with the Ministry of Economy. Why, what is this message to our craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs? We know how difficult the situation is in craftsmanship. In my county of Brod-Posavina, five hundred turns have been closed in the last year. And they hoped that through their ministry, through active policy measures, through European money, through the support of central state bodies, they would have the opportunity to develop. I hope the Ministry of Economy has that status, too, but as soon as you're part of some larger agglomerate, you have to fight for your positions. I hope that the Secretary of State for crafts at the Ministry of Economy will be able to manage not to suffer this portfolio but even more resources, more measures and incentives for the development of crafts and entrepreneurship in Croatia, because we know that this is a great opportunity for us. It is also very important for the government to be formed as soon as possible because our citizens and our agricultural producers, mine in Slavonia and Baranja, can no longer wait. Because if we could help with a set of laws to preserve and develop life on islands that in the last period there is an increase in the quality of life on islands then let's finally and call on the government to adopt a set of laws that also in Slavonia and Baranja live better, that more people remain there and that young people in Slavonia and Baranja are hired from agriculture, crafts, entrepreneurship, forestry, wood processing industry and what we know about and of course we have a chance through rural tourism, and therefore here I think that as soon as it takes the government to form that these laws should be passed, but the reflection of these laws and this structure will also be seen through the state budget because the government must be effective, efficient but also rational. I hope there will be no increase in the allocation of tax money to the functioning of state bodies. We talked both in the campaign and in previous stimuli that we had a surplus agency, over 200. No one mentions them today. I hope there will be room for rationalization and more transparent spending of money. It would be incorrect to save on one side through the growth of central state offices, the absence of the same number of agencies, on another end, to save on units of local and regional self-government, because with the laws in the announcements that come where they are said to increase the non-taxable share of income and the share of income tax that is the highest part of the income of local self-government units, by limiting the spending of tax money on personal income units on local self-government units. You know, they'll be hit by the poorest community. I invite you and us and the government to take care of this in future laws and make this government equally effective in all areas. Here on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party I would like to say that craftsmen and entrepreneurs deserve the government to take care of each and every one of them and that we all live better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u341	I would like to thank the honourable representative and the representative himself for the individual debate, MP Miro Bulj, on behalf of him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That I have an obligation and a place to come to read about these four points. I'll be brief about what we can see here right now that there are fewer ministries, 19 ministries. However, if they are secretaries, by introducing the State Secretarys we introduce, if it does not produce the effect that the assistants will eventually be excluded from it, it will do the secretary good. And if it were like, when the SDP came to power, they introduced the assistants so that they could compete, so that they could actually hire, they put their assistants there without a competition won't be good. It has to be all public, transparent, the government has to be reduced, the state secretaries have to get the role that other officials had. I'm reading very important things here, and I'm mostly saying that I come from areas that are forgotten by areas where we don't have more literally young people because of policies that were led by young people have emigrated, so when I see that the Ministry of Demography is very important and I'm going to repeat again as I said in the replica in 2015. The 36,000 inhabitants of Croatia had fewer. Very important regional development. It is very important to index just according to those parts that have been forgotten, the areas that have been farmed to the end as well as Slavonia. God forbid they ever happen again that the funds that come from agriculture, from the European Union, that are allocated by the criteria of small OPGs to go to tycoons that have essentially povertyed and brought agriculture in this way. I'm truly warning from my heart no matter what I'm part of the majority, and I'm going to try to warn you about what happens if it happens as it happens with the Ministry of Agriculture during the former authorities. We see a very important segment of sustainable development, which means sustainable development is part of it if we see that energy has joined, so the Ministry of the Environment. I don't see any reason why Croatian citizens should ever again be paid more expensive electricity for someone's mistakes, our natural potentials and resources to foreign owners. They are ashamed of those who warn us, and our citizens are essentially forced to pay electricity to foreign owners who use our natural resources, and because of them, they will be the collection of electricity, but exclusively from the pockets of our citizens. If so, it is good that it is in the Ministry of the Environment and that various ways of using energy are not naturally acceptable. The most important thing in this whole thing is, in my opinion, a central, essential segment of the Central State Sport Office. Sport is very important for youth, for people who want to deal with these activities, but do not all have the same opportunity as in Zagreb. Here in the light, we may think that everywhere is the same as in Zagreb. No, there are villages under Svilaj, under Dinar, in Ravni kotars, in the hinterland of Sibenik, in Lica children have no playground, no parquet, but do not literally have the conditions to engage in any sport. And the other very important thing is respect, I agree with everyone respecting the Sports Act. It is unfortunate that more cheerleading groups in Croatia warn those who use budget money to law, not to respect the law. I'm absolutely going to be loud and clear about it, which is why I've come to the individual debate and I'm going to insist on it. I think reducing the ministries is good this way, and it's mostly good that we have to preserve our demography, what we need the environment, the energy, the protection of national interests exclusively. That's what we need to worry about. These are very important things, our natural resources of the Adriatic Sea, so that no longer by chance in the explorations, the drilling of our Adriatic is endangering the environment, and that the results will be used by anyone who knows who, someone else, and not to be the owners of our country's results. And honestly, here's another one if that's where it goes in this case as part of most of this I'm going to support. If not, here I am as an individual I will be the loudest against this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u343	Thank you, Your Honor. First came Pedja Grbin's representative, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u344	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Bull. So in the speech of his colleagues Bulja, he was injured....../The Intruder President: I only apologize, if you can tell by which wheel. Can I finish my sentence? I guess you'll let me have that much. So I'll start from the beginning. Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Bull. In the speech of his colleague Bulja, Article 238 was injured. Rules of Procedure, and you, Mr. President, have violated Article 239. It's the Rules of Procedure because you didn't give Mr. Bull a warning. In your opening statement, you said that you would conduct the meetings impartially, objectively and in accordance with the procedure. As Mr. Bulj distanced himself from the topic of debate at least to the extent to which his colleague Pernar did so before him, you should have been consistent, you should have been impartial and objective and give a warning to Bulju. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u345	Thank you. I followed closely what they said and one and another respected representative, I did not notice that there was a significant deviation, and if you think I was wrong, then you have the possibility to act within 24 hours. Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is the respected representative Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u346	Thank you. So what my colleague Grbin said is that we can't lead the discussion this way, it's moving away from the agenda point. He's right that it was on the trail of what was said to Mr. Pernar. So, the wind power organisation of the public administration what the mandate was talking about was the efficiency and need of efficiency to organise and then we have rural development, so this is out of context and this is a waste of time, not a constructive debate. Here I am in that sense to say the replica that this simply has nothing to do with the agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u347	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u348	Absolutely the answer to the replica, of course. Your esteemed colleague, you have absolutely in no position to deny it. This is about how familiar I am with the structure of government, energy and the environment are together and I absolutely have the right to comment on it. I didn't say a word of it. It may be difficult for you not to report it, but next time you report it, you have people with you who are much more experienced who have been with me in the past term so I can tell you how to do it. Absolutely you've broken the Rules of Procedure in this case, but here's the president, because the first day I won't blame him, and the second time I will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u349	I'd like to ask honorary representative Anku Dark Tarritate for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u350	Thank you very much. I'd like to look back on that part of the debate of my colleague, Mr. Bulj, when he was talking about sports. The sport's been here a lot of time tonight, whether it was from a pay phone or from a place. I absolutely support the establishment of an office. However, by setting up an office without changes, we will not be able to do anything, and I believe that we are all aware of this assembly. All were heartbroken when Croatia won this large amount of medals at the previous Olympics in Rio, and I must admit that I am speaking from the aspect of someone who was president of the Croatian Sailing Union who won three gold medals and believe those three gold medals won by three boys who were in '86. The year behind them is 17 years of work. There were 300... that there would be a crew of Shir in Croatia who won the gold medal, and... somewhere in Croatia there are ten and it happens to you in sport. So we see top sports and top sports and athletes who can't live on that sport because they can't live on that sport that they've been involved in all their lives. We see it, but we need to see the base. This is why it will be very interesting to see really the government programme, to see what was the purpose of setting up this office and certainly the sport and athletes deserve and to discuss in this respected House because Croatia achieves exceptional top results because for these results it should be a base, and the base should be in all parts of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u351	Thank you, Your Honor. Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u352	Dear fellow Members, I would agree as far as the top sport is concerned that there should also be large funds invested in football, non-transparent spending is mainly a known fact because the fact does not respect the law absolutely that the Croatian Football Federation itself does not respect the law... transparently. But a number of sports that make the top results real and you're right, you don't invest enough money. However, this law regulates even greater injustices, which I have noted, even greater injustices, and these are areas where children do not have grand halls such as during the times before for handball halls that have been made, billions are invested, billions are lost today, and children in 90% of Croatian areas except in urban areas do not literally, do not know what the sports hall's parking lot looks like, what the playground, basket looks like, and it should be taken care that each child has the same conditions in Croatia and in sport as in other conditions. And this central office is going to be focused on it, it's going to be a goal, it's going to be a goal that all children have equal rights and are engaged in sports and other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u353	I thank Representative Buljo. If we've exhausted all these replicas, I'll conclude the debate. But before the debate is concluded, would the Proposer want to give the final word? I call on Representative Plenkovic to give his opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u354	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament for the opportunity to look again at the debate we have just held on the package of laws that I have introduced. I also thank the representatives of all clubs who took the floor and for constructive ideas to improve certain aspects of these laws that are ahead of us today. First of all, it seems to me that one respect shown by the opposition today under the ruling majority's proposal to reorganise, in a certain way, the system of state administration and, in particular, in part of the work of individual ministries, is one good practice and respects the fact that each of us wants to contribute to the functioning of the state administration and government in the best possible way to the basis of all the experiences that we have all had here in the past 25, 26 years. A few comments, first of all, about the uplifting of the administration. I think it's obvious today that most of the MPs who took the word and probably those who didn't welcome the extraction of sports from the existing system at the Ministry of the Special Central State Office. I think it is an important political message, that this is an incentive for all those who are engaged in sports in Croatia, who want to improve it, who want not only top athletes to promote Croatia around the world, that sport encourages our young people to acquire the key experience of teamwork, the competitiveness of healthy life from the earliest age to the top results but also that we try to solve all the problems we currently have in Croatian sport through an office that will be in charge, as has been said in the debate and the Prime Minister in an effective way and that all the problems that are in the common forces and through the debate in this Croatian Assembly we try to make less problematic and find solutions. The second thesis on the arousal of the administration, you remembered well that there were over 60 state secretaries in that government by the end of 2011. However, it should also be remembered that there were no ministerial assistants at the time, there were directors, these directors were elected in public tenders, most of them were then appointed from the civil servants' order. It is not our intention to appoint an excessive number of state secretaries in the ministries and thus duplicate or triplicate even the number of current deputies, on the contrary. It is an attempt for those who are at the top of the ministries to carry out their responsibilities on the basis of precisely defined tasks, therefore better quality and functional management at the head of the ministries. When it comes to commenting on whether we were doing impact assessments, whether it was a financial impact or a general assessment of the regulatory impact, I was at the time when I was the State Secretary at the time of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and defended the Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations. At this point, we have, of course, consulted the Office of Law and the Ministry of Finance and there will be financial resources for the potential financial consequences of these laws, they will not be too high for the overall context of the state budget and we also need to take account of it. When it comes to the integration of the law on the rights of state officials and the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, we agree here, it is necessary to harmonise these amendments and in a similar way to repair certain articles of that law, I think it would be good and I respect your suggestion. We may not have done it in this package but we can do it as Government on one of the next occasions when the time comes and when we will try to bring these provisions into line. When it comes to the Constitutional Court's decision to ban retroactiveness, I said so in my opening statement, of course we know that decision. But here we were, first of all, the meaning and purpose of this law. So if we leave the provisions of the law in a way that does not have that sentence that says extremely that it will not apply to MPs of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament, then in a political sense we would do ourselves a bear service. That is why this exception is here and we are taking risks as you have in your time taken it to ensure that the Constitutional Court does not agree with this very clearly defined and pre-identified political decision, that we adequately regulate the gap we have seen. When it comes to the fact that we are open to quality suggestions, the Croatian Democratic Community Club took note of Agent Jovanovic's suggestion and we have prepared an amendment relating to the draft law No. 1. Thus, in Article 24(1), after the word “school sport, ” we would add the word “university sport. ” And I appreciate this suggestion of yours, I think it complements a series of aspects that are defined in the bill. In spite of the quality suggestions of the joint session of the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, where we also accept a number of nomotechnical suggestions, another one has been seen, which has obviously been made by a technical error, so I would now report here to propose another amendment to the draft law. 4. concerning Article 3, paragraph 3, and we would delete the abovementioned paragraph 2 which is deleted and thus avoid any confusion. I apologize for all of this in the short term, but this is in the context of the overall preparations for this session of the constitutive Croatian Assembly at the moment to try to clean up everything we consider to be contradictory. I thank everyone for the debate. I think she was constructive and showed one spirit of respect and also the desire to show some guidance for the future programme at this initial stage. We will have a chance to do so very soon when you will see that there is no intention of increasing the administration, increasing costs is already a key thought and rationalising and improving efficiency and depolitisation and professionalisation of the state administration. It will be the principles on which the work of a number of civil servants involved in the work of the Government and state administration organisations will be based, and with such a structure, I think that the most important thing is to reflect the priorities of the government's future work. This is why they are mentioned here in the new ministry and demographics and families and young people. And it was among other things one of the main aspects of our electoral programme, but also the programmes of many other parties, and I believe that we will find a common language when it comes to future legislative proposals from the jurisdiction of this ministry. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-14-0.u355	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the debated points. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make valid decisions. First Law and Final Proposal of the Law on the Establishment and Fraction of Ministrys and Other Central Authorities of State Administration, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.BR.1. The applicant shall be 67 representatives based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. During the debate, the applicant submitted an amendment which, in accordance with Article 202 becomes an integral part of the draft law. I would like to stress that the adoption of this law requires half the majority of all MPs, 76, Article 252. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Establishment and Circumstance of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration. Please engage in the vote. I find that most 90 votes in favour of, none against, 35 abstentions have been passed by the Law establishing and delirious the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration.
