ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2946	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. The State Audit Office carried out an audit of the effectiveness of the management of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia and delivered this report to the Croatian Parliament in May 2015. The subject of the audit was the activities of the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia relating to the Structural Funds and Cohesion Funds, as well as the financial indicators related to structural instruments for the period from 2007 to 2013. The main objective of the revision was to assess the effectiveness of the management of structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia. The audit shall verify the adoption and application of the rules relating to the management of the Structural Instruments and shall be verified and evaluated by the audit entities of the tasks arising from their functions and tasks set out in the legal and institutional framework. The planning and implementation of the state budget related to the funds of the structural instruments has been verified. Financial indicators on the use of available structural instruments in 2013 and 2014, as well as the estimated cooperation of entities and the availability of information in the management of EU funds have been verified. Among other things, the revision established a legal framework has been fully established, i.e. all the necessary rules have been adopted in accordance with which the audit entities carry out their tasks and functions. Given the workload, the fluctuation and complexity of jobs, there is a need to further strengthen administrative capacity in line with the government's decisions taken on the need to hire and systematise jobs, as well as the need for continued training of staff. The financial data of the national fund and the management bodies on the agreed and paid amounts shall not be identical and shall be kept in different ways. There are significant problems in certain operational programmes in the implementation of projects which, among other things, concern the delay in the implementation of projects and the complexity of the implementation of large infrastructure projects, and there are risks associated with the achievement of the overall objectives of these projects. By the end of 2014, the Republic of Croatia received 431.7 million euros from the European Commission or 50.3% of the amount available, which is 858.2 million euros, and is 24 Member States at the level of use of structural instruments. Since 207.4m euros remain to be agreed from the structural instruments of the financial period from 2007 to 2013 and to pay the end-users 568.9m euros, and that those funds must be spent by the end of 2016. There is a risk that the funds will not be used. The Structural Instruments are not realistically planned in the national budget for 2013 and 2014. On the basis of the revision of the established facts, the State Audit Office estimates that the management of the Structural Instruments in the Republic of Croatia is partially effective. In order to remove identified weaknesses and failures, the Office has made recommendations implementing which would increase the efficiency of the management and use of the EU structural instruments available to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2947	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2948	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we will talk about the report on the audit carried out and the effectiveness of the management of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia. We in front of the HDZ Club will give a broader review of the audit, that is, the overall policy towards funds in the past. This report is a good basis from which we can gain insight into the done, realised, agreed and we can determine what is missed and what we do in the period ahead to raise the usefulness of EU funds and to achieve our own programmes and projects with the largest share of European funds. EU funds are a topic that has been filling up more and more daily newspapers, various media, expert discussions and policy debates over the past few years. When entering the EU, i.e. Before the EU accession referendum was called, EU funds were just one of the biggest reasons why and why the Republic of Croatia should join the EU. The call of money we often call free was one of the great reasons why we round up that referendum ticket. Experience gained during the pre-accession period through pre-accession funds was valuable, however unfortunately the unprepared government of the Kukuriku coalition on the EU funds made mistakes. Accurate experiences, which are people and procedures, were lost in political arbitration and the unpreparedness of the new government to accept the established administrative and legal foundations. Many professional personnel go to the government's desire to change everything, unfortunately from the lowest to the highest levels. Schoold and professionally not to be compensated overnight. The effect of such irresponsible behavior is evident in the results of this report. Why do I say that? After a year and a half of the last government, we entered the EU, more precisely after the negotiations were concluded in 2011. At the moment of the new government in terms of regional development and European funds, we have the following documents: we had the Regional Development Strategy, the Regional Development Act, the specific laws of assisted areas that applied to islands, PPDS and mountain-mounted areas. We had a map of regional support, a division of three statistical regions at NUTS level 2, we had agencies and ministries, operational programmes. The first thing that changes in 2012 with Kukuriku Government is the decision on statistical regions at NUTS level 2. From 3 to 2 regions without public debate, under strange circumstances, the opposite of the Kukuriku Government programme, which wrote in their programme: "In the framework of the new EU financial perspective from 2014, we will seek an agreement with the EU on a new reconstruction of the statistical development regions in the Republic of Croatia from the current 3 to 5 in order to fully ensure the conditions for balanced and rapid regional development based on the use of EU funds. Based on the example of many EU members, we will decentralised the management of regional operational programmes by transferring the management of operational programmes for regional competitiveness to NUTS 2 regional level. In this respect, since 2012, the capacity of regional government levels has to be strengthened intensively to be ready to take over the management of operational programmes for regional development." A map of regional support is also being changed. As a result of this decision, the Adriatic and continental regions lose 10% of their resources, unfortunately, and the entrepreneur in Zagreb has the same level of support as the entrepreneur in Vukovar. The Regional Development Act is amended in the 12th month 2014, year and a half after EU entry. An indexation is introduced that is inappropriate to the real state of development of local self-government units. A large number of civil servants who have acquired knowledge in pre-accession funds are being transferred or fired or going independently to private companies. The administrative structure of employees shall be irrefutable. The financial perspective is presented in 2014-2020, the Republic of Croatia has 10.6 billion euros available until 2023. This report concerns 2013 and 2014 with a review of pre-accession funds in the period 2007-2013. We can say at the club after this little review to conclude that the new government was changing its foundations and introducing its rules and ways, some with delays that gave a bad result. This report tells us exactly about these bad results. The State Audit Office has carried out an audit of the effectiveness of managing EU funds in the Republic of Croatia. The audit shall cover the bodies responsible for the management of structural instruments and this coordination and management body for the operational programme regional competitiveness, the certification body, the operational transport management body, the operational programme management body for the environment and the operational programme management body for human potential development. The main objective of the revision was to assess the efficiency of management of structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia. In its report, the audit sets out the legal framework, administrative capacity insufficient, financial data are not identical and is conducted in different ways, in certain operational programmes there are questionable projects. By the end of 2014, the Republic of Croatia received 431 million and 716 thousand euros or 50.3% of the amount available to the European Commission amounted to 858 million euros. At the level of usability of the structural instruments, it is 24th place among the 28 EU members. The Structural Instruments are not realistically planned in the State budget for 2013 and 2014. On the basis of the revision of the established facts, the State Audit Office considers that the management of the Structural Instruments in the Republic of Croatia is partially effective. The level is more than 68% of the resources available, partly effective in the range of 56.8 to 67.9% and is not effective if the usability level is below 56.7%. The backdrop of the review was the following questions. The first and main question is whether the management of the Structural Instrument Funds was effective in 2013 and 2014 and then the sub-questions were carried out by function audit entities and tasks in accordance with the regulations and objectives of effective management of the Structural Instruments. Is the number of employees involved in the process of withdrawing EU funds sufficient, and do employees have adequate education, does the Republic plan and implement national co-financing funds and EU funds in the state budget? Are the 2013 and 2014 structural instruments financial indicators available and transparent? And whether it is from joining the EU means by the end of 2014. The Republic of Croatia effectively used the resources of structural instruments? These are the main questions she tried to answer through her work and the revision itself. Something about funds. Until the entry into the EU, the Republic of Croatia was also a beneficiary of the IPA programme, which has replaced first generation programmes popularly called pre-accession funds in the financial period since 2007-2013. Following the entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia, it was entitled to the Structural Funds from which EU cohesion policy is financed, notably the European Regional Development Fund, which should serve to reduce differences in the development of certain geographical areas and between certain social groups on the European Social Fund, which represents the EU's main financial instrument for achieving the strategic objectives of the employment policy and cohesion fund, which should finance projects that improve the environment and develop transport infrastructure identified as an integral part of the trans-European transport network. On 31st December 2013. The Republic of Croatia had 835m euros at its disposal, of which the available funds on 30 June 2013 amounted to 748 and 86m euros in additional funds. By joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia has received 433m euros from structural instruments, bringing total funding for the financial period 2007-2013 to 1 billion and 269m euros. Realisation contracted 559 million, paid 371m euros. After entering the EU, the national legal framework constitutes the Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of EU structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia and a regulation on bodies in the EU structural instruments management and control system in the Republic of Croatia. We are talking about national strategic reference frameworks and operational programmes. The State Audit Office is of the opinion that the legal framework has been fully established and that all necessary rules have been adopted as a basic prerequisite for the management of the Structural Instruments. When we talk about the institutional framework of the law and regulation, an institutional framework is governed by the bodies in the governance and control system of the structural instruments, which are the coordinating body, the audit body, the certification body, the managing bodies and the intermediate bodies of level 1 and 2. The audit found that there were insufficient staff staff in those bodies. Two problems have also been identified, and these are mainly people with no working experience, or persons with professional training, and there are difficulties in retaining employees who acquire adequate knowledge and experience during their work in the bodies. The State Audit Office shall propose to the National Fund to coordinate and, in agreement with the managing authorities, determine how to display and manage financial data, taking into account specifically each operational programme. There's some more information from the report. Four operational programmes have agreed 889 contracts, of which 313, in implementation 576. The European Commission has approved and paid a significantly higher advance from other EU Member States. By the end of 2014, the Republic of Croatia received 431 million euros or 50.3% of the amount available and at the level of use of the Structural Instruments funds is 24 places out of 28 Member States. The audit determines that co-financing means need to be planned more realistically, the realization is about 70% planned within the state budget and what ours is not realised according to the plan. Member States shall pay funds to the EU budget on the basis of the Treaty of Accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. According to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia, the EU budget paid 1 billion and 805 million through its own funds system in 2013 and in 2014 paid 3 billion and 511 million totalling 5 billion and 316 million kuna in value somewhere close to exactly 700 million euros according to the 7.6 kuna rate. From 1 July 2013 to 31 December 2014, according to data from the National Fund of the Republic of Croatia, it received 721m euros resulting in it receiving 21m euros more than it paid, ending for that period as a net recipient. However, when two payments to the EIB are added to this, the Research Fund for Steel and Coal under the obligations of the Republic of Croatia and the EU with an amount of 52m euros, for the observed period, is minus 31m euros by the end of 2014. Answer the questions of the audit itself. First and foremost, was the management of structural instruments in 2013 and 2014 effective? The conclusion is not already partially effective. Asked whether the entities carry out the review of functions and tasks in accordance with the regulations and objectives of effective management of the structural instruments' resources? They're making a conclusion. Is the number of employees involved in the process of withdrawing EU funds sufficient and do employees have adequate education? The conclusion isn't and it isn't. Is the Republic of Croatia planning and implementing national co-financing and EU funds in the state budget? The conclusion is ineffective. Are the 2013 and 2014 structural instruments financial indicators available and transparent? The conclusion is yes. Are they from EU accession until the end of 2014. The Republic of Croatia effectively used the resources of structural instruments? The conclusion of the revision is not, we are 24 of the 28 EU countries. And finally perhaps a small conclusion, we heard on the Assembly Committee on Regional Development when there was still Deputy Minister Puljiz on the clear question of how much we used the funds from what is available to us in the new financial perspective means from 10.7 billion euros available to 2023, so in that observed period what the real effect is, the answer was only 300 million euros. I think that's clear enough to figure out how we've been doing in the past tense. The HDZ Club will accept this report, we consider it a good basis for the future but also an indication that we should not do and what needs to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2949	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She's the first one to represent Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2950	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric. In your debate, several of you, along with these several technical remarks, have given one very important one, which is that HDZ will advocate a change to the 5 statistical regions, which sends a very clear message to the Croatian public, Croatian entrepreneurs and all users of European funds, if you do so that entrepreneurs of the local self-government unit from this part of Croatia mean Zagreb, Zagreb County, northern Croatia will not be able to use the funds of the European Union because these regions are developed on average. You need to know what motivation was at the beginning of that change to 2 statistical regions and basically to absorb as much funds as possible. So first, the problem is that you will exclude a large number of users in the Republic of Croatia and the second is that of these 10.8 billion euros available in the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2014 to 2020 will be much harder to withdraw, i.e. make use of. And this is something that is very dangerous and that we will fight because of what this prerequisite for using these funds is one of the main preconditions of the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia. As regards positioning at the end of 2014 compared to other European Union countries 24 of 28. I'll tell you in 2011 we were 28 out of 28. So, here's what you do is you make four, five more places to be better placed this year, and I'll be happy, although it'll probably be in itself because it's more or less all agreed about IPA and this year what it'll be used if it's just the services that you're doing, we'll be placed much better. So, you move some standards and then brag about it. So in 2011, we were last.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2951	The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2952	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Maras, you didn't listen well, I read what the SDP wrote in its corn plan or what the government said to Kukuriku on the subject of statistical regions. You were when you came to power, i.e. during that period of election campaign announced that you would raise three statistical regions to 5, that was your programme, not ours. HDZ clearly showed its programme in 2011 when we did it, i.e. Long before we said there would be three statistical regions in Croatia. You said from 3 to 5, you finally made two. And then there was a new map of regional support that I was talking about that's fine by you. We thought maybe it wasn't right after all. So I read you the cut from Plan 21. ... We can't change anything anymore because it's agreed and that's how it's gonna stay but whether it's fair or not, it'll show time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I've been describing the situation, and it's really been a lot of mistakes. I think we should talk today at some level of expertise without a lot of politicizing. But to make this what I said in the end one indication that maybe we shouldn't work and in this mandate that what we have in the system we upgrade, that if people are missing to add, that we don't constantly change the rules, that we change what might be the most disturbing, that's the indexation that's been talked about a lot in this House, and of course we see what with the assisted areas that you unfortunately through certain legal changes led to a level of questionable self-evident, and that, unfortunately, you have acknowledged yourself. I don't think we can lead such a policy in the next period and the new minister and the government will work quite differently than this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2953	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2954	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a lot of these things he can react to, but I'll do it later in my debate, I hope. What I would particularly like to emphasise is the project of the former government, the HDZ government, but has never been applied. We have gathered enough courage to apply the indexation, all its flaws and to drag into the aid system, to support the state of 100 units of local self-government of new ones that have never been in that system. Of these, 95 are in the area of Slavonia and northern Croatia, so the poorest part of Croatia. So, I think we've done a great thing. At the same time, it came out of the 65 unit system that exceeded the 75% index. One of the collateral victims of the process was areas of, therefore, mountain-mounted areas that are moss, so of those units that are located above 75%. One of them stayed in the system, about nine of them. However, we have subsequently proposed certain amendments to the laws that go towards keeping certain measures for mountainous and mountainous areas. We spent the key one. This is a measure of a larger share in income tax for all units in mountainous and mountainous areas and we expect you to complete this process by eventually accepting the laws that go in order to enable, for example, the Gorski Kotar and other mountainous areas to co-finance road maintenance and snow cleaning, which is a very specific requirement of these areas and to increase the forest contribution as the original income of local self-government units in the area. Both laws have been prepared, they are in the process and here I expect you to put that on the agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2955	The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2956	Thank you very much. Dear Greek, we've really had expert discussions here in the past term, we've had a nice conversation in this House. We in opposition then disagreed with a package of your measures concerning regional development, and you insisted on it. You entered the concept of decentralisation into the full centralization of the system to decide everything at the state level, you took away in your opinion and your data to the local self-government a large part of the resources, interpreting it with different reasons, and we were in no way aware that the areas that are called aided, means which state must always help, help you bring them into a situation that they are now really considering whether there is at all a certain level of opportunity to survive as local self-government at all. To fix it and to get into the campaign peacefully for this election, you have also proposed the Road Law. He was in the procedure and stayed, unfortunately. We had time to discuss it, you didn't bring it because it obviously wasn't good enough for us. It contained certain provisions that were very questionable. Sometimes we talk about mountainous and mountainous areas, but just some other segments that concern the roads themselves. But I'm saying, it was a package so you left it like that, so somebody else should think. But in time, it was warned, don't do this in particular to the mountain-mounted areas you've destroyed through the law, which you've finally left in the end, and that law that you said you'd abolished with provisions that are completely unusable and perhaps it's better if it wasn't in the end. The island law did not touch God, but we did not get anything new from what we were looking for, so today we hope to have a professional, quality debate on this problem because this is above all policies and it is a benafit if we can achieve the desire to achieve at least 20.30% more EU funds from now on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2957	Thank you very much. The replica will now be held by distinguished representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2958	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Boric, you quoted from the findings of the State Audit Office the fact that the State Office has assessed that the national strategic reference framework as well as the operational programmes has been effectively established. I can agree that the relevant strategic documents which are the basis for the preparation of operational programmes and then, later, the withdrawal of funds have been established, but I do not agree with the way these documents have been adopted. It is the impression that documents have been adopted to satisfy the form, not to meet the needs of the economic development of Croatia, so I will only give for example one of the most important documents of strategic documents brought by the Government to the Kukuriku Coalition, which is the Strategy for Transport Development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. The document was put out of force by the former Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 1999 during which our political rivals on the left claim that the time of Franjo Tudjman was the time of the authoritative political system, and in such a system, the Croatian Parliament discussed for three days the strategy for the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia, so that the previous Government of the Republic of Croatia would have the document that speaks of regional development of Croatia. Because the regional development of Croatia does not exist without the well-established transport system of the Republic of Croatia adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I listened to the audio recording from that session of the Government. The debate at the government lasted 26 seconds. So, how much the government respected this House so that we as representatives of the people would decide and discuss this very important strategy best speaks the fact in which it was adopted. Even in such a transport strategy because, for example, the Pelješki bridge is not explicitly written, but it is said about the traffic connection of the south of Croatia, but the strategy itself that speaks of how the Republic of Croatia sees its transport system not a single Pelješki bridge is not, one Pelješki bridge as the most important transport project for me in the Republic of Croatia is not explicitly mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2959	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2960	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, this is a document that is spoken of, so the strategy of the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia is a document that we have so much wanted to talk about in this House. We even had two of us, I think, if I am not well mistaken for the failure of the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport, and we have not been able to even find out what the name of the designer of this strategy is and later we heard that it is a company from abroad that should have told us what we need from traffic in the next period in the Republic of Croatia. Looking at everything that's been going on for the past four years, there's been a lot of stories, a lot to talk about. In public, let's say an example of monetization. For three and a half years, it was discussed, for three and a half years certain models were announced, and we really can't say that we didn't have a public discussion. There was a referendum. The government debate on giving up monetization, which means the Croatian people were interested in because it was placed for three and a half years, lasted 17 seconds. So, a little less seconds than the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. This speaks of the level of seriousness this country has been taking. The State Audit Office has made an audit of the effectiveness of the management of EU funds and clearly provided certain findings that point to us having to change the way we behave in some parts but that we must certainly appreciate that neither with this government nor with that previous government does anything start or end anything. Unfortunately, they set off in a different way as if they had all started and ended up quite wrong and unfortunately to the harm of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2961	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2962	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, my colleague Boric, you have described all well what is stated in this audit report, but I would say that the revision has nevertheless used the wrong evaluation formulation in this regard, given that the three categories of evaluations are defined in the evaluation and there is an effective, partially efficient and inefficient use and management of structural instruments. For efficiency, it shall be assessed if the Republic of Croatia has used funds as a third of the most successful Member States equal to or more than 68%. Where audit entities successfully carry out tasks and functions in accordance with regulations and acts and monitor the implementation and implementation of operational programmes as part of an effective assessment if it has used funds as a third of the medium-sized Member States from 56,8 to 67,9% if weaknesses and failures have been identified in a small number of areas of audit. While asset management is considered ineffective if the Republic of Croatia has used funds as a third of the least successful Member States less than 56.7%. If this audit report says that the Republic of Croatia used 50.3%, then it can be considered ineffective. I think you really missed seeing this and reading it and like you said 31 million kuna minus the funds used clearly speaks about the ineffectiveness of those who managed cohesion funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2963	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2964	Thank you very much. I was talking about one part of this report, there are other numbers we haven't mentioned, it's comprehensive. The state audit handled it properly. I say, it's less important that I part of whether it's effective, partly or not effective. Our problem is that we had a fact for the first two years of EU membership, and this report also tells us that, for example, we received a significantly higher advance from other Member States as the Republic of Croatia. This advance, so this is what they give you in advance, was 24.2% of the total amount available, which was 858m euros, while other EU members received everything on average in the new financial period between 6% and 9%. So, we have received almost triple the advances from everyone else because probably the European Commission has also concluded that we are completely unprepared to apply all our skills and abilities and that we can effectively start using structural funds. That is the basic problem arising from this report. And I think it's up to the new minister and this government to really, say, respecting everything that's been done so far, upgrade the system. If there are no people I say that people are busy, professional, quality people that I really talked about at the beginning of my presentation that we all thought might be the biggest argument that we should enter the EU because we talked about free funds to really use it and prove that this entry into the EU at least in that segment paid off as Croatian citizens expected, not that we are outsmarting ourselves with just 5 million or 10 million of some kind of benefit at year level, we are a successful or unsuccessful government. Because if we're doing 50 million kunas, we're gonna say that we're successful because we paid less and we get 50 million kunas anymore, then that doesn't make any sense. We need to talk about a billion euros a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2965	Thank you. And now he'll take the word for the line, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2966	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Boric's statistical regions are not someone's invention, but statistical regions are the offer of EU member states to identify areas that need more grants and thus eliminate diversity in development. Now one elemental question is being raised here, should we continue to concentrate everything in three, four centres and empty Slavonia, empty Banovina and everything else or make such statistical regions that those in Slavonia, Banovina, Lika, Dalmatian Zagora get 80 and more percent of the grants and thus encourage entrepreneurs to open economic activities there. Because take one entrepreneur in Zagreb and one entrepreneur in Slavonia. This entrepreneur in Zagreb has a million and one combination more for the development of work than the one in Slavonia. Is now in our interest to get to the point that... And we get what the people say to the charm and we'll all eat the charm, but somebody's gonna eat the meat and somebody's gonna eat the rice, and this is exactly what we got. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in order to allegedly push 100 units of local self-government into many units of local self-government, we took 30 percentage points of grants. And that's a fact. And we can't get away from that fact. And that's a fact that Slavonia, Banovina, Lika, the Dalmatian Zagora will never forgive us. And now he can say whatever anyone wants. The second thing, fellow Boric, when we talk about this here, let's not forget that the famous story of tax discharge, the promotion of consumption, has taken place at the expense of the very poorest. Instead, they no longer return income tax from the state budget but return it on their own. Even these rich cities and municipalities have lost 18% of their resources. Therefore, indexation and statistical regions are also an instrument for governments to equalise how much development is possible, not as much as possible, and to talk about how we all eat sarma.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2967	The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2968	Thank you very much. My colleague Shuker, I say we had a very high quality debate in this House, and we have proposed amendments and all that was needed to pass this legislative proposal and be better quality. However, we were not wanted to be respected, and we kept warning if we had the Ministry of Regional Development that it was a ministry that needed to develop undeveloped, undeveloped regions of the Republic of Croatia. That this must be their primary task, that there are specific laws for this, that ultimately there are the necessary funds that we can get from the EU. The former government, unfortunately, went wrong, they felt that passive or undeveloped areas of the Republic of Croatia should not be taken care of in this way. That's what they've adapted their strategies to. If the Minister of Transport says that I care about which 50 railways or railway lines have been abolished, he was not interested in the part that they believe should not be developed in Croatia, and that is what I say in the regional part of the Republic of Croatia, especially in the areas of state care, mountainous areas, and they don't care if people can live there at all. The strategy was to live in large urban areas, or if you don't want to, you can get out of the Republic of Croatia and look for a place somewhere else under the sun. We warned that indexation no matter who made it when you saw what gave is not fair. And we also offered solutions, we offered solutions, but the Ministry of Regional Development refused to accept them because we claimed that the timeframe, i.e. For them, the 2011 census cannot be one of the criteria within this indexation which is credible because some areas such as Gorski Kotar lost almost 50% of the population for 30 years. And we thought that time frame had to be part of the indexation but that I had to catch one wider area back maybe 30 or 40 years because there was an eviction from those areas. He wouldn't accept it. We got what we got. Instead of having regional development, we actually have the development of large environments at the heart of these smaller ones which, unfortunately, neither through the usability of funds when we look at large urban environments, large cities show any result.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2969	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HRID's Club of Representatives and Independent Representative Sandor Juhasa, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2970	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the state's audit of these many billion euros to turn our heads The State Audit has again done its job in quality, and the audit colleagues have already been home here for the last few days. Do I not know if it is known that more than 50% of total public investment in Central and Eastern European countries has been financed from EU funds over a period of just 2 years? These are data signs in 2 years, and in order to compete Croatia with countries that are close to us, say Poland, Estonia, Slovakia, Czech Republic, these are examples that illustrate well. Unfortunately, Croatia does not belong to the country. These are countries that have made good use of EU funds and these are Estonia, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. In particular, more than 90% of public investment has been financed from EU funds over a period of 2 years in Slovakia. Why is this example important to Croatia? Since so many public investments are financed by EU funds in other countries, it is clear that the use of EU funds is not nearly as good, it is not nearly as good as it could be. Of course there's a shift, but there's a lot more room for improvement. And I am sorry that it is still not the priority of economic policy to use EU funds as it is in some other countries. Likewise, to gain insight into how many EU funds we have not used, I will give examples, and examples refer to only 2 years. Here in particular, more than 43,000 jobs have been opened in Poland for a period of 2 years. An airport was built in Sofia, Bulgaria. In Bulgaria, it is in 6 large cities that I do not list them that are significantly modernised urban transport. In Estonia, there were hundreds of very important projects from the water economy and a complete reconstruction of the railway. In Hungary, 400km of new roads were built and over 2,000km of existing roads were renovated, etc. etc. As far as I know in May 2015. Croatia has sent priorities to the European Commission. First there were 77 strategic projects on the list, which was sent to the European Commission and then the list was narrowed to 25 projects. These projects, which were sent to the European Commission in May 2015, also covered areas from rail infrastructure to broadband. What was further about this, I have no knowledge. But what I do know is that taking advantage of funds, let's say from the cohesion plan, experts say, can only increase GDP by 2 to 3% a year in just 2 years. I think that's what every comment is about. In our case, as a major obstacle, and this is evident from this State Audit report, there is an incomprehensible bureaucratic language, demanding documentation, strict rules, etc. etc. The lack of administration, the lack of educated staff and, unfortunately, for many, it was an insurmountable obstacle to withdrawing money from Brussels. But on the other hand, there's an interesting piece of information that people at firsthand have said that they've withdrawn considerable resources without having had a previous experience. They say their strongest weapon was incredible enthusiasm and good organization, of course the quality idea is understood. And it's a formula of success. The fact is that there are a number of people in our public administration who have overcome the problem of EU funds. And I've been involved in some funds myself, and I can say that the procedure is quite, quite complicated, and it takes some time to get into that file. But these people in our public administration are not enough, and that's what the state's audit has shown. And you have another absurd situation where when people learn these procedures, when they are educated, when they overcome that problem ultimately leave public administration, they eventually leave the state service and go to some sector where they are paid better. We saw last week from the Commission's report on the control of public procurement procedures what is actually the problem of preparing documents for public procurement, or for projects. And to make use of these choices is practically the most important thing, we can say the banal thing of a good organization and the ability of a state administration because the book falls to two letters, literally to a good organization and to the ability of a state administration. Of course, it is not easy to prepare a project and let alone plan it and it is not easy to prepare all these documents according to the specifics given by the European Commission because they are really strict criteria. They must also be technologically and economically feasible, have a high-quality business plan and, of course, a financial plan, must ultimately be in line with these objectives required by the European Union, etc., etc. It's practically a small master's degree in some cases, or I don't know graduate work, about that level of demand. And so it depends most on the abilities and skills of civil servants and, of course, on the support of the Resort Ministry and ultimately the Government. Unfortunately, often the rule is more than the exception that quality ideas and truly strategic projects have fallen into administrative and technical problems. And yet the problem is the stalking and synchronicity of state bodies. It is interesting to say that local self-government has been doing much better in some situations in withdrawing funds from EU funds because they have been smaller, better teamed up and better organised. Let's just say that some units of local self-government were really successful that I'm not counting them now, that I don't single out which, of course, they were less successful, of course depends again on organization. The common question I've heard may sound banal, but who should do it literally was the question. Let's say what needs to be done by the head of the municipality when the municipality wants to apply to the EU project. The head of the municipality in theory should do one thing and in practice do another, but he can actually also in theory and in practice literally only lead the project team, he can do it on paper, of course he can do it in practice, depending on how capable he is. It should give priority to the development of this municipality in line with the overall development of the plan and everything else, literally everything else can be done by professional consultants, people with experience and references because these people work from project preparation to application, and then later implementation because local self-government of course does not have sufficient number of educated workers for EU projects, some have understood that in time. But on the other hand, we and the county development agencies have when we talk about local self-government and these agencies have received significant funds from both the state and the county budgets. And their role is, in fact, just to improve life and the economy in these local units and of course, the most they can achieve through European funds. In these, in certain counties, in certain units of local self-government and development agencies played an important role and helped, they were almost crucial. And there's more money being withdrawn. I'm not going to single out anyone again, but we also have those examples where development agencies haven't done their job in a very good way, and in fact, it would be crucial for those who haven't been so successful and they all fall under the same hat of help with examples of the more successful or additional educations. According to the 2015 report on the revenue and expenditure of the Member States, Unfortunately, I was surprised, too, but we see that Croatia is worst positioned in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and that is official data. To avoid confusion when we say revenue, we mean those funds that the state has paid into the European budget and the expenditures are those which the European Union leads to as a cost to a Member State, including payments to that Member State, of course. And now that difference between income and expenditure should be much more positive. This would mean that the state is making good use of EU funds. In that list, Cyprus and Croatia are the worst on that data. I think it is certainly here that in Croatia these sources are necessary and it is indeed a shame not to use them enough. But back to those positive examples of countries in Eastern Europe. I really hope that in Croatia this share of public investment financed from EU funds will increase in due time to at least 50% if we can't measure with some who have 90% because, in these circumstances, 90% seems like science fiction to me. That is why this revision is very useful and I see that the audit entities, so the state authorities have all agreed to accept the recommendations of the State Audit Office. The recommendations are really comprehensive from improving administrative capacity to helping users. And the State Audit Office really did a good job, gave those good recommendations that should be applied. It's true that all weaknesses and failures have been identified. And it's all beautifully complex and written down. Now, the question is how much of it will be done again and how much of it will be adopted. These examples of countries that were better off have been better prepared. We actually need a serious warning that this is the problem to which we have so far, regardless of these discussions that we have heard now, we have not seriously approached. We may have had enthusiasm but we were stuck on some steps and we did not systematically and systematically implement all the steps we needed to take. Both by the state authorities and by the government, not one but several governments in a row. And that needs to be fixed. The Commission tells us it's not good to hurry up, get organized better. We see that partial shifts have been made in recent years, and that needs to be improved. A colleague here said in a previous discussion that this government would do things differently. I don't agree with the fact that everything needs to be done differently and everything needs to be done over and over again. Where it was done well, it should continue to improve, and then where there is room it should be further improved. Everything is good in this report, but not only in this report but also in other documents that have not been implemented. No flat-rate claims should be made, because it's all written down and the facts speak for themselves. So let me get this straight. I'd say there's no need to break down what's good and there's no need for every government to start over, but to continue with what's done well to continue to improve, just to upgrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2971	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Branko Grcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2972	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just like to mention what my colleague Irene said. She explained very well what this was about, it was also about the first presentation. So the people in the system this is one of the most dynamic and demanding systems in the state administration and it needs it, that's what I think more or less clearly. These are people who are extremely educated with very specific knowledge and demand, please colleagues, and wanted on the market, and you can see that. So every day from the most important institutions in the fund management system, people go away. It was in the term of this government, and it will be in the mandate of this government as new as it was in the previous government, and that is unfortunately so. So, my colleague, Boric, I'm also using the opportunity, so what happened at the beginning of our mandate was a battle for people to stay in the system, believe me, and the best proof of it in my ministry as a key ministry for fund management in three key positions related to this story strategic planning... So the managing body and the deputy minister in charge of EU funds, three non-partisan people you know very well, and you know that these are exceptional people, exceptional experts and have nothing to do with the SDP. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] And I wish you had the strength to keep those people in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2973	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will respond. Oh, no? He won't. Then the next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2974	A colleague pointed out well that what is good should not be changed. However, the Ministry of Regional Development, where the EU funds were simply run by another logic. So, in the development index of the mountain-mounted area, the reverse logic was going. What HDZ brought as a development index they accepted and it was essentially a complete failure mainly for the areas of the Dalmatian Zagora, Sinja and Vrgorac who lost half of the budget those areas that otherwise extinct and were forgotten in every form, so let's say the city of Sinj lost to the budget that was once 70 million lost over 20 million kuna by this unfair law. Everything that was bad, so was Vrgorac. The mountain cotter lost 25 million as much as the city of Sinj. These are areas that are extinct, so the targeted policy was not regional development but regional breaking of rural areas, and this is the HDZ Development Index as a key development index, listen under the 5th level of education. Sinj was among the first cities in Croatia for unemployment, but it was much more important for the educational structure to transfer that limit 75% and to split that money elsewhere and you unfairly have damaged that end of Mr. Greek now. You led this city to the brink of extinction because of your decisions that were unfair. We've been collecting petitions of seven and a half thousand signatures. You were supposed to see us, not you, but your deputy took us in. You haven't even treated yourself here. The only thing you're finally facing is a mandate to tell you that let's say it's commendable, but just for political reasons which is good in the Alkarian courts you've invested some amount which is not correcting the injustice. That's what you took the pig from us, and you gave us the sausage, i.e. Judge. Give us back one pig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2975	My friend Bulj, thank you very much. You're supposed to be replicating a colleague of Ireni Petrijevcani Vuksanovic. She has now come forward for an answer, although yours was, your replica was directed towards a fellow Greek. But apparently she'll answer anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2976	Dear fellow Bulj, with all due respect for your guidance in the EU funds, I have no doubt that you are sufficiently directed towards the end you are talking about. But you can't talk about EU funds in the context of local self-government units only through indices. It's one bit more complex matter that I don't have, three minutes isn't enough for me to explain enough to guide. But I respect your concern for your end. I am the same, coming from a municipality where it could have been better used, and unfortunately it is not and it is Eastern Slavonia and it could be discussed a lot. But it's not a sin just past the government. I don't defend the last government, nor defend the government before this last one. So it's something that's very complex and there's, let's say, that the situation hasn't been well handled in the last 15 years and that's the tails that have been retreating. Of course this indexation is something that you've now perceived as crucial, but it's just one wheel in this entire system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2977	Thank you. On behalf of the club, the next word will be taken by the distinguished representative Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2978	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the audit. We are facing today's Report on the audit and effectiveness of the management of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia. The final assessment of the audit itself is that the management of structural instruments is partially effective. It is evident that at the very beginning of the use of the Structural Funds, it was not immediately reacted quickly enough and that the funds withdrawn were less than those paid towards the EU than data for 2015, which is also behind us, these data have changed significantly and the picture has actually been much better since then. During 2015, Croatia paid a little more than 3 billion kuna in the EU budget while at the same time providing more than 4 billion kuna to Croatia from the European budget. Which means Croatia and 2016 will be in plus. In the framework of the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion, 12 grant procedures launched in 2015 are planned to continue. The total amount of grants made available to users under these procedures is 464m euros, out of which as much as 424m euros will be withdrawn from the EU budget. Also, an additional 54 allocation procedures have been planned to make available to users a total of 2.5 billion euros of grants of which around 2 billion euros are European funds. However, despite this positive news for these upcoming years in the conversation with users and applications of structural funds, I have learned that they often encounter problems with invitations to competitions but also with all others related to competition applications. Some of the most common problems I have been complained about are the following: very short deadlines for the application but also frequent calls changes most often several days after the very publication of the call. Changes made after several workshops already held related to the competition itself or several days before the completion of the deadline for submission of the documentation result in the inability to meet all the criteria in the competition. In such situations when calls are changed, it would be desirable to extend the time limit for the application itself. Workshops that are conducted are often too general without some concrete answers to the questions asked. The processing of public calls takes too long, the evaluation deadlines are too long. Report deadlines should be shortened between individual administrative phases of the projects. It is necessary to revise the regulations for the 2 most key operational programmes, which are the development of human potential and competitiveness and cohesion programmes. It is a very complicated procedure to apply for tenders and a pointless amount of documents is required for registration. It is necessary to simplify the tender documentation in such a way that all necessary forms to demonstrate the financial capacity or ownership structures publicly available that they do not need to be re-applyed to the application. Evaluators should be professional persons with practical experience in the economy, which would greatly facilitate their understanding of the projects themselves but would speed up the certification of user reports. The same or similar situation is when waiting for a response to dedicated claims for compensation. It's just long deadlines to wait for answers. The huge problem is that different enforcement bodies interpret the same rules in different ways. Here, these are some of the problems that users themselves have pointed to. It is clear that when you read the recommendations given to the audit entities in the report, they are actually very much in line with these problems that I learned from the field itself. All audit entities accepted the recommendations and pledged to take the measures necessary to remove as many problems as possible. In my view, it's the only and true goal and task of these reports we've been hearing now in the last few days that we've been audited. Detect problems, warn them and work on removing them. We'll probably be here today in this House discussing everything and everything again and what it has to do with this report and what it doesn't have to do with this report. I believe you all remember our debate yesterday. Let us not miss the opportunity given to us and given to us by European funds. I now invite you all here problems have been detected, and what would the Zagorians say to me, let's go to the children's heads together and get to work. Two heads are smarter than one head, and imagine only then our 151 heads opposite 1 head. Let's let go of the past, let go of the shooting and watch the future. Yeah, I agree with the history of life teacher, and I don't argue at all, but as James Joyce would say, "The history is the sea I'm trying to wake up from." I also appeal to all of us now also to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by delaying the formation of the Government, and by selecting deputies and assistants lagging behind with the adoption of certain regulations, and thus also by calling for tenders, which leads to potential applicants entering the competitions that have in time prepared projects and complete technical documentation are now in a situation that, due to the delay in calling competitions or entering these projects themselves or giving up the application of projects to the EU competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2979	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2980	Dear President, listening to these statements, we've heard a lot of data but we're not dealing with critical matters, some taboo issues on the issue of European funds for '14. One year, the first year of full EU membership, we had 1.1 billion euros at our disposal. How much did we pull? We are around 24 to 28 countries after the withdrawal of European funds. But what are the key problems? Always in the legal system is a total mess, I've lived out there for 30 years, there's a change of law every day that's written in a pen, erased, erased, some laws here changed in procedure 23 times. What's normal going to expose here? These aren't ideological questions. In Croatia, half the people work in public services today, in state companies half the people work as well as in the former state. Corruption is here somewhere in the EU basement with Bulgaria and would have mentioned to these exhibitors that Bulgaria also carried out denationalisation. In Croatia, 10% of the land was introduced into the catastre and 58% of the state land is unusable. Who's gonna invest here? We have an example. We are in a special place with regard to growth in Central and Eastern Europe, Central Europe, why? Why did Poland progress, Czech Republic? Because they've decommunized all the elements. That's not an ideological question. They've returned property to the people, they've established an efficient system, the laws change, they don't interfere well with that doctrine and... the pact. You don't interfere with the laws of socialist and Western laws, continental like Napoleon, like... it's like mixing water and oil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2981	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative, Maria Puh, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2982	Dear fellow Glasovic, the basic thought of my report's guide was to detect problems, warn them and work on removing them. I think it's the task of all of us and that we have to work together on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2983	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS, Buz will take the floor away from the esteemed representative Gordana Rusak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2984	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a couple of days ago, I stepped behind this same pay phone when I found an audit in connection with an institution in culture. And in the end, I ended up experiencing this own act as a group psychotherapy that should at least calm my conscience a little, because there's still something done, there's talk about what's supposed to change. But the way to these changes is so long that that knowledge seems frustrating. Therefore, my stand today is fueled by the knowledge that by the way in the assembly, things are not going to get any better by themselves. It is necessary to look for ways out of its own work, through which something can be triggered, through initiatives, through committees, through dialogue with ministers, and therefore my approach to today's debate is quite different. I want to present the facts behind this data that brings us to review the effectiveness of managing EU funds not to go back in time and criticise what could and should have been better. It's no use today. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council on the basis of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular with Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the But you don't complain about spilled milk. I want this exhaustive and thorough analysis by the auditors on which I thank them most very much for taking some lessons and some of the guidelines for further work in using EU funds. I will stop at the operational programme for human potential development because this programme is particularly interesting for the field of education and science and unlike other framework programmes, most of the projects relate to grants. Under the programme, we had more than 150m euros at our disposal. We managed to contract about 56 million euros. We received just over 48m euros and paid just over 40m euros to end-users. Which means we only managed to pay 26.6% of the resources available to end-users. Defeating the data, but if we connect it to the next context, then it's even more tragic. At that time, while we were given this opportunity to withdraw available money from the operational programme for the development of human potential jobs in scientific and higher school institutions, the doctors of science lost their jobs. Part of them were found on the stock market, and they're the best and the best working abroad today. Assuming that we were able to withdraw only half, I stress only half of the resources available from that fund would provide a one-year gross salary for 3653 doctors of science. To immediately break the fam about how high salaries are in higher education, the average gross salary of a science doctor in the system of science, education is about 13,000, his net salary is about 7 grand. Let's also break the record that university professors have high salaries because the difference between a doctor of science and a regular professor is not even an x2 coefficient. What negative consequences he has left on scientific and teaching work at institutes and universities this mass exodus of young doctors of science should not be highlighted at all. We'll feel the consequences for decades. And now I'm going back to the knowledge and abilities that are needed to get the money out of the available funds out of the way. And the findings of the audit show that one of the weak points in the process of exploiting European funds is the lack of educated and competent people who are skillful in writing projects because we can only withdraw money on the basis of well-designed and written projects. Investment in people should have been the first step that should have been taken at a time when we were only far from joining the EU to be ready to welcome the possibility of using pre-accession funds as well as those that have opened up to EU accession. That's what we were supposed to put budget money into. If that were not the case, and had not had any vision of what is coming, the data suggests that even those institutions that have great intellectual potential and great opportunities to exploit these funds, such as colleges, institutes, have not been able to create new jobs all these years on the burden of budgetary resources, which would be employed by employees whose task would be just to apply to European projects. Back in the '80s, back in the '90s, all the bigger institutions that had some kind of office had their secretary, the secretary. Without that, we can't imagine an office. I think the time has come to realize that today none of the major institutions can have an office without a man who is able to write and report one European or more European projects. Let's go back to colleges from the institutions I come from, so in my institution, applying to such projects is left to individual enthusiasts who, after teaching, writing scientific projects and running the administration for these projects after scientific work and after working in various bodies and committees at the university and university, will find more energy to write under quotes only one European project that will allow for a certain period of time employment of a young educated person. Is it strange, then, that we only used 26.6% of the resources from a possible maximum for the development of human potentials? But I said, I'm not here to criticize, let's turn around and move. It is truly unpopular at a time when for many reasons we are talking about reducing expenditures, saying that we should increase them in one segment. And I will say, however, that investment in people should be increased and aimed at competent people with the knowledge needed to successfully report EU projects that would be distributed rationally to those institutions and those institutions that have the greatest potential to exploit that money. In particular, let's open jobs for them at the best universities and prestigious institutions, and that would make our investment double back. All he has to do is have the courage to invest the last coin we have in science and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2985	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Arsen Bauk. ... He's giving up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2986	Thank you very much. Comrade Rusak, you said you shouldn't regret spilled milk. I agree we shouldn't cry for him, but if we don't know the reasons why the milk is spilled and we don't remove the reasons, then we'll spill it again. And the data on the use of EU funds especially if we return at the time of the pre-election campaign is completely different from the data we get in the state audit findings and the only accurate data is this data right here. And the biggest bickering was how successful or unsuccessful European Union funds were used and it was actually fictional data. And this data here says that it received 432 million Republic of Croatia euros and that it could have been 858. It can be said that she used 50% of the possible but it's more correct to say, 50% missed the possible. Even here says state review and what are the reasons for that. But the Croatian public scene is full of delusions and false distorted data. We are witnesses, here in the media it is announced that yesterday a president, president of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities, has deceived the Croatian public with data that only 10 kuna per year per capita, per member of the Association of Cultural Associations of National Minorities, is detached from the state budget. It is not true, but it stands out 10 times more per capita per national minority if only members of associations are taken into account, then 10 kuna is not allocated but 7 thousand and 400 kuna per year per member of the Association of Cultural Institutions of National Minorities. Imagine being fooled by the public instead of 7400 and saying 10 kuna. This is exactly what has been said so far about the use of the European Union funds in relation to what it says here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2987	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Gordana Rusak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2988	Math is math, numbers are numbers, they can't be faked but I wouldn't go in at this point. I would point out this sentence again or a very short, very short sentence, let's turn around and move on. I have made a concrete proposal, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's create jobs in those institutions that have the greatest intellectual potential for people to write European projects. And I'm sure that's when the numbers will be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2989	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the next word will be taken by the esteemed representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2990	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few words about this audit report and the general situation that my colleague Maric said something about. So there are one figures in the audit and they cover the period 2007-2013. And the second is the data that includes the '14th and 15th years as a whole, and there's progress that's very visible, and I'm going to say something about it. As far as the audit itself is concerned, I think we're doing it correctly in some kind of cooperation and we've discussed it and we've done it so that I can agree with the conclusions of the review. What we had a little dilemma about in the talks is what's very important and that's the comparability of the data. So the only thing that is comparable in Croatia to European countries using EU funds is the period of use of pre-accession funds 2007-2013. This data includes the amount Croatia received in the second half of 2013 from structural funds and there is the catch. That amount could not be used overnight and should be known. So when compared only in 2007, the thirteenth, so when we started using funds in the same time as other countries, then the situation is very different. So this data suggests that Croatia has contracted 95% of the total IPA funds available during that period and has paid 68% of the total funds. When you add funds from structural funds for half of 2013 then the percentage decreases, because you simply can't use those funds overnight because you need to accredit the system, you need to equip it by the new rules, open the competition over and over again. etc. And it's a procedure that's been going on terribly long. That it takes the best time to show you the following information. When we came as Government in 2012, we found, so from 2007 to 12 years of financial perspective, and we found 250m euros of contracted funds, and that fellow Maric can check if he does not believe these figures. He can easily check. So 250m euros agreed in five years, and in the next four years a billion and 250m were agreed. So 6 times the amount at the end of this government's term, the former government, compared to what we found at the beginning of the term of office. Five times the amount paid, so one is agreed, and the other is what was realized on the ground. So five times the amount paid in the field is now about 750m euros. And those are the facts. And somewhere it started with 170, 180 million euros at the beginning of 2012. Therefore, we continued to build the system. It has been building up for the past five years, and for Croatia it was something completely new and I understand it. There were not enough projects to deal with and absorb money. We have continued some of your projects, we have designed new projects, lots of new projects and lots of big projects, and this has brought about the situation that we paid out of the Croatian state budget of 5.7 billion kuna last year alone, based on all the EU sources. This includes structural funds, but that includes, of course, support for agriculture to be absolutely accurate. But it's very important to say a year ago it was only 2 billion and 100, and that year a billion and 400 years ago. So that curve goes expansionally up and last night we're, here's a chance for me and my colleague Maric to discuss it. So the estimates that in this year's budget will be installed 7 and a half billion kuna per year are absolutely realistic and feasible. And that's what brings the Croatian economy out in the large part with the growth of personal consumption, with the growth of exports, etc. The very important component of growth is investment and specific investment funded by EU funds. Because only in one year 2015 where the shift in economic trends in EU funding was 3 and a half billion kuna. That's one percent of GDP. So, of these 1.8% estimated to be GDP growth or growth in 2015, almost 1% is directly related to higher payments from EU funds. And those are the facts. And now this process goes on, some major projects are going on, and this process is going to speed up. Unfortunately, there were also problems of the very serious Long Village – Križevci, the 200m-euro project seems worth a double drop in the competition. But that just proves that we're a well-organized state that respects the rules of public competition. And if something wasn't right in that process, it wasn't. We're canceling it, and we're not raping it or God forbid we're setting up competitions there. Therefore, it is part of the building of a system where it really responds to the slightest lack, competitions are cancelled and all over again. True, it threatens that we may ultimately not use all the resources for this project that were intended, but the rules must be respected and so we did. And I hope the new government continues that way. When compared you see what I said only to IPA and other European countries you will see little can be Googled on the Internet and very nice to see. All EU countries, especially the new member states in the first two, three years, have been making very difficult use of the funds. Why? Because this is the process of preparing system accreditation, contracting projects, implementing public tenders, etc. etc. which lasts, which takes time. The best was 2007, the eighth, the ninth, the Czech Republic that went into the process. And you know what that looked like? In the first year they didn't make a deal, in the second year they contracted 20% and paid only 1%. Only in the third year did they raise the funds to 10% of total allotments. The worst was Romania, which within three years since the seventh, eighth, did not pay even the euro of EU funds. It's facts, it's true, and it's easy to check. I'm not talking about Croatia right now, I'm talking about the Czech Republic and Romania. The same is true of Croatia. So this process is going slowly at the beginning while everything is being prepared, built, while the projects are being prepared, while contracts are being prepared, competitions, etc. And then it goes off in the second half of that seven-year financial period, and that rule is always the same. And there's a lot of confusion. And that's what was manipulated in the campaign, unfortunately, so they said here, in 2014, nothing this government pulled from this new allotment from the new financial period. It's still manipulation because it wasn't even possible. Because in '14. The operational programmes were still approved for the year. How you will withdraw money if operational programmes are yet to be approved, and Croatia was in the first third of all European countries in the dynamics of adopting operational programmes. Therefore, we were at the top of the speed of preparing these key documents that we can boast of. Yeah, and those people I mentioned earlier contributed most to that with the whole structure in all the other ministries and agencies, and here I publicly thank them once more because they're people, they're people for whom there's no problem in the system. They didn't earn their salary, they made a lot more than that because they don't work eight hours, they work 12, 14 hours a day. I can testify personally, wherever I need to. And they're not party people, they're public administration professionals who need to be kept at all costs. In this new system of wages that you prepare to take care of these people. These people need to be held back, and unfortunately they're running away. What can I do? A few more data that are very important for the overall situation at the moment the EU funds are exploited. So, at the end of 2015, a billion and 500 million euros were contracted, 740 million euros paid. What we have defined together with the European Commission was also an action plan, a special action plan to accelerate the absorption of these funds 2007-2013, where we have introduced several methods or ways. It's primarily the phase of the project. What does that mean? This means that one part of the project can be financed from one financial perspective, current, and that without problems then we can continue to finance it if the project is not completed in another financial perspective. The second essential method is related to transport. So traffic has been one of the black spots of this whole process for a long time, and it's really stuck there, it's stuck, it's stuck, it's stuck, and then we've sat down and we've agreed with the European Commission that we can even change the operational programme, correct, change the list of projects and insert those projects that are fully ready. That's how the Dubrovnik airport entered, 250m euros worth of investment, so a huge project went into that list. There was also the bridge Ciovo, the Trogir bridge, so Ciovo, that's where the Kaštela bypass, the Vodice bypass, and that's where we practically exhausted the alaction of the transport sector. Now all that matters is that by the end of 2016 we really do make it and do it on the ground, right, and withdraw that money because it's not enough just to make a deal, it's important to do it. But a good signal is that these funds and these large projects that have launched the final construction sector in Croatia after 7,8 years of collapse. When that balloon actually blew up, then it came back again thanks to these new projects, new investments to rebuild the construction sector, and in the third quarter of this year, for the first time, it grew by a serious rate after I say seven years of exhausting, and it was 6-8% a year. That's clearly what statistics say. It is the sector that has suffered the most and which now that it is rising will rise slowly and the total economy, of course, along with industry and tourism as key Croatian economic sectors. And something else at the end about the administrative capacity itself. We, in cooperation with the Commission, measured our EU funds management capacities, measured the workload, so something that will now be measured throughout the system, I hope, with these changes being made in the public administration of so-called public administration. workload, therefore workload, and that will actually measure the effects of work in the public administration. We have found that at this point or a year ago, we lack one 350 people for normal management of the EU fund system in the next 7 and 10 years, respectively, so in the new financial perspective. Most of these people are already employed, and there is still something to be done in some ministries. I hope that colleagues from the new government and that part of the process will be completed. This is what should be particularly highlighted in terms of system readiness. Another key element I warned about at the beginning of this year, and I am glad that the new set was adopted in some way and that she was thinking the same way, and that is not to be touched now by the ministries and the structure of the government as it stands. Why? Because we have to do the system accreditation process. It has been started, all documents have already been made, were completed at the end of last year, and it is now important to complete the process because otherwise the payment of EU funds towards Croatia would have been slowed, so from the EU budget to Croatia. But here, I'm saying it's a good thing that the current structure of the ministries is kept, that nothing changes because any change would bring at least 5.6 months of changes to regulations, regulations, systematicization, this, this, that, and that would naturally slow down that whole process which in this case will not happen. The process in one part, most of the EU funds, so within so-called the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion is in a more advanced phase, and this should be over in the next month, two. It remains, so it will take a little more time for this second operational human potential management program. And that's it. So one image that is now much better in the whole system where there are little steps left to take to make things really very intense. And what is very important now as the finale of the whole story to say from a new financial perspective, so of these 11 billion euros mentioned, we have already set the criteria for a two-billion-euro contract last year. So there are also competitions and calls and everything is actually arranged that these money can be used. In this year, the plan is at least 3 billion and 800m euros in new competitions. So creating an assumption of moving into the process. And it's clear that it won't be agreed in the same year, but it's important to create all the assumptions that these competitions that have been kept going and that this money is contracted and spent in the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2991	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused quite a number of replicas, so let's take a turn. First, she is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2992	The esteemed president of this... data here that hides behind this data, this great paperwork that you've been getting here every day? There is a dysfunctional state, and the root of it is the total lack of structural reforms that will turn us into a modern efficient state. And that's where the analysts come in. Analyticals isn't the past. You have learned lessons, it's not done here, it's not done for 15 years. Why is there no analysis? Here are the European funds, the second half of 2013 was available 655m euros to Croatia, we haven't achieved half of it, we haven't gotten half of it. There's a colleague talking about professional staff development, how are you going to get a professional, say, a cop for $45,000? There's no military at all, it looks like we have a functioning society, and it's not developing that potential, people going out because their wages aren't good. I would like one answer to one question, economic diplomacy, we have thousands of diplomats out there, receiving 3 to 5,000 euros a year, actually monthly, what is their impact? You have a fixed salary in other countries, how much has the investment brought here in the last four years I'd like to know? They've been there for 18 years already. We have tens of thousands of people who don't pay in Croatia. A third of all Croatian companies are affected by liquidity. As far as corruption is concerned, we're somewhere I think 66 in the EU basement. Those are all structural issues. Until we resolve these legal issues we will not go far but they have their cause and Croatia has not started since 90. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2993	Thank you very much. They'll answer, there won't be an answer. The next replica is the esteemed representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2994	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. In your discussion, you listed the Pelješki bridge, you listed Dubrovnik Airport and I will make one conclusion that no government has ever made for Dubrovnik-Neretva County as made by the Government of Zoran Milanović in attracting funds from European funds. We know that Dubrovnik Airport is being built, and we know that the Pelješki Bridge will take place in the spring. The value of these investments is about 500m euros. This will solve traffic through the airport, we know the importance of Dubrovnik Airport for tourism and for the development of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, so it will double traffic. And as for the Peljega Bridge in this assembly, there is one absolute consensus that this is a zero political question of joining the territory of the Republic of Croatia and that one of our dreams that we all dream of achieving together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2995	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2996	Well, here's just a little correction from fellow Penic. So you said that no government has ever done more for the Dubrovnik-Neretva County in terms of withdrawing EU funds before, I would correct it in a way that generally in financing such large projects and such big money that has been blended into that space in these several projects has not been made. There are, of course, investments in the port, hotels, hotel facilities and other things, but what is important is to highlight in this amount, the large amount of investment that has happened, which is going to happen this year and what we have prepared. There is a large share of EU funding sources and this is important. So somewhere between 60% and 70% of that large amount will come from the EU funds, so free and free of charge, and not from expensive loans. It's a message.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2997	Thank you very much. I'm glad my colleague Penic mentioned this joint dream, and I'm glad he's in common because he wasn't exactly a dream in his day. Unfortunately, only some of them dreamed of him. But the next one came forward for the replica, the esteemed representative, Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2998	Thank you very much, dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Grcic mentioned in one sentence agriculture and I must say that I am quite disappointed with the review report, but my biggest disappointment actually stems from the simple reason that the revision only means cumulatively mentioned the operational programme for rural development and as the fifth component of the IPA programme by 2013. While in the 2014 report, it was completely lost. So now I'm asking, have we stopped using the funds from that operational program? It is incomprehensible to me that the audit did not cover an assessment of the effectiveness of the Ministry of Agriculture with the accompanying implementing institutions and organisations. It is also amazing to me that the revision has decided to completely abandon the analytical effectiveness of the managing body for the implementation of the common agricultural policy, which is the EU's most significant policy where the operational rural development programme is when we are aware that there are the biggest implementation problems in this operational programme that arise from insufficient efficiency, as well as inexperience of the competent authorities that are actually being placed above the legislation not only of the Republic of Croatia but also of the EU as a whole. In fact, it would be right to request that a full report, as well as a detailed analysis of the effectiveness of the management and all implementing bodies for the implementation of the SAPARD programme and rural development programme with a detailed cost-benefit analysis for the Republic of Croatia and an analysis of their regulatory framework of action which is contrary to the legislative frameworks of the Republic of Croatia as well as the regulatory frameworks of the European Union, be provided by an urgent procedure. Finally, it would also be necessary to request an audit and detailed analysis of the effectiveness and work of the Agency for the revision of the EU programme implementation system in which clear indicators of the absence of supervision of the work of the bodies for the implementation of EU funds have also been observed, in particular in the part or non-recognition or non-compliance with the legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u2999	Thank you very much, colleague, your replica was focused on the revision, not on a fellow Greek who obviously did not answer. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3000	Honored Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. My replica goes in the direction of two cancellations of tendering for the construction of the second track track on the stock of Long Village-Criževci. It is one of the strategic projects that the Kukurik coalition announced immediately at the beginning of its term worth several billion kunas. Here we have heard from the steps of the esteemed Greek representative that it is a great success that everything has been done by law and by law has twice annulled this valuable project. The funds are allocated elsewhere, nothing has been done as well as any major project concerning northwestern Croatia, and here I will mention the road built from Cugovec to Križevci, that is about 12km of road, built for 4 years, not yet completed. And as far as we're concerned, here's what you mentioned to the President, the Peljega Bridge, I'm also unusually glad that now after a few years of shooting and mentioning, I don't know what kind of projects should be dealt with, and just not by the bridge, we finally came to know that this Peljeka Bridge is of national interest to us and that we certainly need all of us together to make every effort to build the bridge. But I'm saying, I'm going back to the second track track that was one of the strategic projects of the Kukuriku coalition, it wasn't made, two competitions were cancelled. The entire North-West Croatian economy taught and Koprivnica from which I come has been cut off in all this. Not to say how much business and everyone else could have been involved in building such a big project. It is unfortunate that today we justify ourselves by having been renegotiated twice by law. I'd rather have them, the first one by law, and we're already working today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3001	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3002	... For a long time, the Selo-Krysevci, of course, I didn't say that it was a success that the competition had failed twice, so it would be absurd if I had said rather than say that we are very precise in respecting certain rules of public procurement and procedure, so that is the reach of the state, democratic and orderly but unfortunately it sometimes stops such valuable projects and of course we're not happy with it. [[Specially enabled.]] Here's what your minister is going to do, too, because now there's a third procedure in progress that also has some problems and he's going to have to deal with it, and the question is whether he's going to make it work, and I'd like to solve it, that we don't ultimately lose some of those funds. As for the Peljega Bridge, it didn't take time here to mature some consciousness on the other side, or on the one hand or on the other about the Peljega Bridge being needed. So it needs to be made clear once more, the problem was financial resources. So why else would two, three times open work on that project if we had the money to do it. We didn't have any. In 2.3 years of negotiations that I personally participated in with the European Commission, this government has managed to impose the project as a project that will potentially be financed from EU sources. That's the key. In this is our success and yours will be if you translate it into a construction contract this year and if it starts that final construction that can no longer stop because the funds are secured. There's this important difference. So before the money was not due to objective problems with the budget and the simple needs of saving and all other reasons and now we have drawn these money from the eu funds to the greatest extent and one part of course will still be from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3003	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3004	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Greek, first of all a few words about the railway Long Selo-Kristevci. Namely, the project documentation was correctly made and the project is financed from the Operational Programme Transport 2007-2013. Experts claim and I agree with that that the second cancellation of the competitions by HH infrastructure was not necessary. And that the potential conflict of interest because the competition was won by the state-owned company Pručna Gradina did not interfere with the contracting authority's awarding them the job because, after that, because the Spanish company was too expensive, the tender had to be annulled. I claim that the state-owned company of the Pručna Building has won the competition legally and experts claim that this is not about conflict of interest. You're now saying that our minister will continue. I am afraid that after September 2016, if this job is not agreed, if that competition falls on the state commission that we are left without that money, and that is almost 160m euros. So much for this project. As far as the Peljega Bridge is concerned, at the beginning of the government's mandate, the Kukuriku Coalition project was an illusion for fools. It was, you know it very well who said it and it appeared to be Podkin's village, that it was an unnecessary project. The minister of transport also tried to connect different variants to Croatia. This was also about the tunnel under Neum and the ferry that was supposed to pass through the Maloston Bay. You know that very well. It was only after a certain time that the government accepted the project and set out to study the justification and construction of the Peljega Bridge sought by the European Commission. You had a project you could go on. You know that in 2012, when it gave up the Peljega Bridge that Croatian roads took a 400 million kuna loan to finance the construction of county roads, which I thought was illegal. On the other hand, the Pelješki Bridge is not just a building to be built to connect the south of Croatia. There should be a number of roads both per Peljesac and the Pelješko Bridge. This part could be financed by European funds, and continue to build the Pelješki bridge with its own resources because it is about the amount for the construction of the Pelješka Bridge and for the access roads is almost identical. You know that very well. Therefore, we could continue to build the Pelješko bridge, today we have already built the Pelješki bridge, and by means of the European Commission we can build other roads that are important for its construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3005	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3006	So to clarify, part of the project Pelješki bridge are both access roads and exactly what's left to solve paper is the Environmental Impact Study in the area of the access roads. So, everything has already been done for the bridge, and only for the access roads should the Environmental Impact Study be done, it is accepted and all assumptions have been fulfilled that it can be followed by an application official to the EU for the approval of funding funds. Unfortunately, I cannot enter this first part of your debate. It's within the jurisdiction of the State Public Procurement Commission. It is an independent institution, and we simply must not comment on it, nor interfere in that part. Probably a lot of details more could be given to you by my fellow former minister. I don't know about that much, but that's it. So, the issue of public procurement, complaints, the resolution of complaints is in the domain of the State Public Procurement Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3007	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3008	Thank you very much. You have also devoted a good part of your presentation to the problem facing the new EU member states, so the problems of withdrawing funds from the EU funds. You mentioned Romania which I thought you said for three years did not withdraw a single euro. Now you also mentioned that we withdrew 1.7 million euros in the first year, 1.7 billion kuna, 2nd year 2.8. Thus, the upturn curve withdraws funds from the EU. I'll say in the sports jargon you need to know the trap in the penitentiary to judge you. So through this I see also part of your responsibility why the government of the Republic of Croatia has not withdrawn that number in the past four years, has not withdrawn the funds at its disposal. So when you came to power to sweep you, I have to say it like that to all those personnel who were deep in those projects. So, who made these projects, and we agree that these projects are not easy to do and that they need highly professionalized people to do it. So I think that here is the insufficient withdrawal of funds from EU funds also lies in the fact that you have not left people deep in this problem. Our adaptation lasted for more than two years than some of the new EU members you spoke of as Romania did. So, you need to know the trap in the pen to get your judge to play the pen, and when you have players like that, then you need to keep them, not move them like you did in the past government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3009	The esteemed representative Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3010	So here's just because this is the second time said, here's Boric laughing because he said it first, so that's where we got some people out of these projects and that we've poored the personnel structure in that segment. We certainly didn't do this, and some of your colleagues and colleagues I personally wanted to hire and call to take over assistant and other duties in the EU fund management system. They thanked each other for going the other way. They went to some private water because it's cheaper, you know. And it stays, it stays written somewhere in my memory, the memory of those people that we talked about seriously. So it's not for me, and I've just said that party membership in this segment of EU fund management never meant anything. And believe that's where we tried to keep the people in the system. Unfortunately, in a large part, people were leaving alone, leaving today. The outflow in one of the key agencies run by the SAFU at the moment has led for the last three years, four in our mandate of a person who has already said so for 100 years in the government of the Republic of Croatia, so in the state administration, the ultimate when it actually came to me with information that on average 15% of its people leave the system willingly because they learned a good job because they acquired certain knowledge. It's one of the most complex agencies in the country, and trust me, these people on the market are extremely passing. That's the reason, not any relationship between us at the moment we took office or I don't know during the term of office. We simply cry out for good people, and that system cries out for good people.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3011	Thank you. The next is the replica of distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3012	Thank you very much. A fellow Greek says one sentence, and it says logic as much as apricots, so many lows. This review report downhill, and you in your debate uphill. And here we are at the top, we can discuss. However, we hear information and different interpretations of figures and we have done so both in this House and in the public and in politics until this report clearly draws the line at the end of 2014, and clearly states how much benefits we have received and how much of this is missed. And there's no more discussion here. Now we can talk about 2015, after this report. It'll be in another debate. But I wouldn't have picked up the line if you hadn't talked about some numbers we haven't been able to hear so far. We had a parliamentary Committee on Regional Development and your deputy, a colleague who left, when we finally asked him, a colleague from the Assembly Committee, tell us how important what is most important to us, and that is how much we managed to negotiate and pay off from our financial perspective in the next period of 2020, which I don't know about paying farmers, etc., what is this amount of 10.7 billion? He said 300m euros. You're talking about 748 now if I've heard correctly. So it's a discrepancy, it's a different story about different areas. And that's what we witnessed in the election campaign. So, how did you guys feel about funds? You've been giving farmers payments in the last two weeks of pre-election campaigns. All were paid the amounts they were due in the last two weeks. Was it because it had to be, because you wanted it to be, or was it the policy's intention to do it that way? I don't think that was correct. But be it, it's better then than never. Here, that's all I wanted to say and you confirm that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3013	The Honorable Greek representative will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3014	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I have to deny what you said because you weren't precise. So, you asked my deputy, Puliz, how much of this money that's new, in the new financial perspective, was paid, so in 2014,-2020, and he told you well 300 million, right? And what is the total amount from 2007 to 2013 including half a year of membership in that perspective is those figures that I was talking about. See how easily you can manipulate numbers. So let's be exact when we talk about it, shall we? And as far as this agriculture is concerned, it is a good thing that farmers from year to year as regards EU funds are increasingly present and it is simply such an agreement with the EU because there is an increase in allocation from the area of direct support for farmers. Every year that amount grows bigger and bigger. What would matter is that we have also discussed this in negotiations on the formation of a new government over the past few months, which is that because of the seasonal impact, this money is paid at the beginning of the year, so in the first quarter. If our farmers heard it, it would be good for the new government to take it as a rule. I know that this affects the liquidity of the budget, i.e. the liquidity of the budget affects these payments but it would be a good rule for farmers to prepare the season and make all the necessary purchases to pay those money in the first part of the year, preferably in the first quarter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3015	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3016	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Grcic, in your debate, you've talked a lot about the exponential growth of payments from EU funds. I have a feeling that next year we're going to brag about the results from 2015 and 2016 as if it's just come out of itself, like there was nothing until yesterday. And here comes the new ministers and new governments all of a sudden, these programs worked. So let's say yesterday the finance minister says 7 billion kuna will be withdrawn from 5 billion in 2015. And now you tell me what you're saying, whose result is that? Is this the result of some work that has been continued or just changes in government and the arrival of certain ministers in their current places? So the job goes on, the job goes on and what's the goal and what's to measure next year isn't whether it's worth more, whether there's been more competitions than the plan? If we said in 2015 11 billion euros in new funds, the 2016 plan is 3.8 billion euros in new tenders, if this is not done, it is a failure. That's what we're going to measure, not if it's 2,3 or 2.5 billion. So, this year's very clear plan is to call 3.8 billion euros in EU funds bids. This is the case for 2017 and 2018, and all 11 billion euros will be launched. And as for the direction of certain ministers, I am concerned by my successor Horvat who is totally uninvited on this subject and says that the tenders have been slowly called and in this audit, regional competitiveness has been agreed on by the operational programme over the period 2007-2013. So people should get a little bit of guidance in what they're doing before they start talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3017	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3018	You see in some big systems, macroeconomic systems things can't change overnight. That's actually what we've had for the last four years. So something that was a crisis, something that the recession took time to push that wheel uphill, and that's how it ended up. In 2015, it brought us a twist, and in this turn largely, as I said, the EU funds participated and somehow coincided with each other. And that's a fact. And now that wheel's moving, he's going to speed up. It will speed up, of course, provided we do everything and continue these good trends and that engagement. What is actually advice or better said calls to the new government do not waste time on insignificant things, get hold of this segment regarding the economy, even better business climate for investment, the use of EU funds because under these conditions of fiscal consolidation, EU funds are a key source of financing for development and growth. And that's the only way, that's what we all need, and we who are in this hall and all our citizens. And that's the key message. And the results of what we have to say from my perspective have worked hard over the past few years will be seen in this next period. 2016 is what happens in this segment to the greatest extent is the effect of work in previous or previous years. And then come the effects of both the new government and its projects. And that's right, it's simple legality.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3019	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3020	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's so nice to listen to Mr. Greek. A number of projects that are in phases I don't know which you're describing is that they're about to be the Pelje Bridge and other numerous projects, and I can see on the other hand, they list the same projects from before. So it seems that Croatia will no longer be unemployed and that there are many cranes, that the construction sites are open, that it is so much launched that it should not be doubted at all that these young people who are running away with outside planes and are not coming back, this is a positive optimistic message, but the reality is obviously not that way. You want to convince people that everything is running and that's actually not the case. Again, he would refer briefly to what you have skipped and attaches to EU funds. As an unprofessional person, that's what I'm saying. It's very important for local self-government, so what status is in the development index, i.e. where there is a fact that numerous areas where the country was literally burned by war and after war, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora, like the great parts of the country lost by the law that you brought before last year huge funds. Even when running for EU funds, it is very important that the project that is proposed without the same value of the project, more points get projects, are given more those areas of regional self-government coming from assisted areas. It's a fact of the point that it's from assisted areas. The only thing we can do, but the fact that HDZ proposed that development index and you accepted it by hand. The only thing that was fair and realistic was that the development index was revised or that the level of education changed. It's much more important than the unemployment rate. I think it's time for us to get serious and end up no matter what political option, make an audit, and in this year's development index in the whole area and get... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3021	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Branko Grcic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3022	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's just one example to which we've taken care of these things that you're talking about. When we applied that development index, there was a serious problem. The areas you're talking about, so the war affected the areas suddenly, using that index over the period since the previous measurement, improved their position, and then we even got out of the system, and then we went into analysis to watch what the problem was. You know what happened? So there's a demographic criterion there that says if the population is growing in some area, that area is more attractive, so more developed, etc. And then it lifts it up on a scale and then the probability of being excluded from the assisted areas is greater. What, though, happened to some places in the war - stricken areas? People were returning to these areas, and from the last measurement to this last one, the number of inhabitants in the area increased, but only because of the return of the number of people who had escaped because of the war. And of course we've corrected that. 20 units of local self-government in these areas have been returned to the system through the correction of the demographic recovery coefficient, let's say that we corrected that illogicality. Let's say Drnish was sent back there and he was dropped because of that illogicality. So we've really taken care of everything, and I can only tell you and I'm in and I've never been against that further work on improving the development index. And something else mountain-mounted areas, you can't be so rough because there are some municipalities in that group called Matulji that has an index of 120% of the development and that belongs to mountain-mounted areas and has the same rights or we have the same rights as the municipality some of the poorest who is 40% of the development index. Is that fair? I don't think so. Therefore, this should be degreeed and we have done everything possible to make the mountain-mounted mountain-mountain a little lower because of the overall level of development, and to assist them in the focus of the state and to help them to the greatest extent possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3023	Thank you. And now it would be the last club of MPs, it would be the club of representatives of MOST and on behalf of the club of MPs will speak to the distinguished representative Jasna Matulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3024	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Administration, I would like to tell you that on behalf of the Representatives' Club, we will support this report because it is extremely high-quality. We've already moved on to concrete projects in this debate and I'd come back a little bit means just the report. And I'm also going to add that I'm going to skip a part of my report that refers to a series of statistical data because it's already been talked about so we don't repeat and we don't bother you. What I wanted to say about the report I repeat is excellent with the fact that I still want to focus more on the efficiency assessment of the use of European funds that are highly desirable and necessary since the final interest of the Republic of Croatia is just to assess what are the effects of using EU funds. This report focused only on the issue of financial value and the withdrawal of funds from EU funds, which in itself is very important but not enough leaving out the overall assessment of the economic, social, environmental, use of EU funds. In short terms, how much was the contribution of the EU funds to the development of Croatia. And it is logical, in fact, that such an assessment is lagging behind, quite justifiably, because it needed to monitor the effects of funds over a long period of time, while this report concentrates solely on the first year of membership, which is too short for one full evaluation. It would also be desirable to complete the data on cash flows between the European Union, the budget and the Republic of Croatia with data from the European Commission. For example, according to the European Commission, the Republic of Croatia made a surplus of revenue over expenditure in 2014, payments amounting to a membership fee of 49 million euros, however, this data cannot be found in this report. Otherwise, only the report well recognises the difficulties of the system, management and control of the use of EU funds in particular with regard to missing administrative capacity. The need for further development and strengthening administrative capacity, continued professional training, the retention of professional staff, quality and rational management of human resources and additional employment has been identified, this is from the quote. The report also contains a number of quality recommendations related to better public reporting on the use of EU funds, which the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds should take into account and which have already been partially and taken into account and one part of which has yet to be completed. So we expect to improve the half-year report on the use of EU funds adopted by the Parliament. It is a recommendation that concerns the need to speed up the negotiation of European funds because, of course, there is no doubt there is a need to dynamic this part if it is to maximise the use of available funds from European funds in the period from 2014 to 2020. In this respect, it would be very good if the Central Co-ordination Body of the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds were to report to the Assembly on the activities it is taking to speed up the payment of EU-funded projects. I believe that the Ministry of Regional Development, I will have to call him briefly to take the role of coordinators throughout the system and must be a body that will dictate the rules, oversee the intermediate bodies and the way they share the funds especially in the first call segment and create project bases. The new minister should fight to play a role within the system and become the main place for these issues so as not to repeat the situations in which the project would come into question because of the lack of compliance of technical conditions according to different criteria of different ministries. It would also be necessary to explain to the public exactly how much funds we have really used so far, both from which instruments and how we stand with accreditation and cash during as well as what it all means. If that does not happen then we know that we can expect another mandate in which the money is at our disposal and which may soon return to the European Commission. We currently have one such situation, so the structural instruments of the financial period 2007 to 2013 left to negotiate 207 million 423 251 euros and to pay off end-users 568 million 961 thousand 682 euros, and that those funds must be spent by the end of 2016, there is a risk that the funds will not be used at all. In this regard, in front of the MOST Club and in front of the Committee on Regional Development and European Funds, we have sent a request to the Minister to provide us urgently with information on the allocation, contracted and paid funds from the European Union Fund for the programming period 2007-2013, 2014-2020, and this separate data for each operational programme, as well as in particular the IPARD and rural development programme. A brief description of the current state of implementation of the programme and of the programming period 2007 to 2103, with a view to the possibility of losing or not withdrawing all allocations in certain areas. A specific description of the situation in relation to the implementation of the largest infrastructure projects financed from the 2007-2013 programming period which are delayed with the realization from which the absorption of funds may be compromised in the period from 2007 to 2013. What are the key obstacles to faster implementation and how the competent ministries intend to remove them, when we get this information, we will be able to talk more about it and make suggestions. I would now, given that we don't have the background that you have in working and observing actually this period, but we are actually coming from an area where we used or tried to use funds, applied not quite successfully, personally and with, in the environment we worked with. Now I would just like to set up a few thesis or count some of the things that first came to mind that we could think about them a little bit in terms of the effects of the instruments so far and the means of efficiency of use and perhaps even some of the suggestions that come about. So one of the most important and I think it's apostrophe and there are people in the report. So people are important factors in managing EU funds. For years, there have been problems of insufficient staff, inadequate education as a significant risk that has had an impact on timely and effective implementation in all bodies responsible for the management of structural instruments. The training of employees is crucial for quality performance of jobs, so the employees of the audit entities responsible for managing the structural instruments completed a number of forms of education, seminars, workshops, study trips which were mainly related to the use of... and preparations for operational programmes of structural instruments, risk management workshops, public procurement, infrastructure projects and the closure of programmes, election on implementation of functions and management and control of selection of projects to check the payment of irregularities on which the training registers for 2013, 2014 are kept. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it has been shown that there is still a lack of quality and quality educated personnel, and there is room to discuss it and perhaps approach it in a different way than so far, which some specific ideas exist about. Accreditation. So the first and most important thing to solve is accreditation, because without accreditation, there's no money. If there's no money, there's no funding for the projects. The European Commission has given Croatia the deadline by the end of this year to carry out all the harmonisations and to prepare all the documents required under this process. Until this is resolved, we will live in the advances that we have received and the money from the state budget, which will not be close enough to finance all those projects that are being announced. One of the preconditions for obtaining accreditation is the MIS system, i.e. a simplified information system to be monitored by ESI funds in this financial perspective. The question is about, where is actually the new MI system since the opening of public procurement in 2015 seems little to know about. It would be good to demystify all the misunderstandings about making a new MIS to give the public information on where and at what stage it is made and when we can expect it. The recognizance of public administrations that are involved in the calling and processing of public calls to ESI funds should also be recognised as a matter of urgency to train people in the system that work on these jobs, but also better organise them. If you need to bring trained assistance, introduce measurement and rewarding,... with an estimate of the duration of the evaluation and verification of the evaluation of the projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will be in vain for us to open up 50 new competitions if we don't have people to write them, publish them, implement them and eventually administer the implementation. For information, a part of the user is waiting for confirmations of the report and with this payment for several months and after all deadlines have passed because public officials working on these jobs do not have time to do what they have to do. With regard to officials, it would be good if the new government did not change all people in the system for the continuity and knowledge that they gained by working on projects during the last period. With a complete replacement with a brand-new crew, we could lose at least half a year. Also, those civil servants who do their job well should be rewarded, while those who do not do so should be penalized. This is the only way to prevent a major outflow of expert personnel working on EU projects in the private sector that has been a problem for years. And finally, imagine that someone is telling you that they want to give you money and that you are the future of Croatia, and then load you with 20 forms that you need to fill out, to get out of the process because a public body issued you a document for a wrong sentence even though it is not your responsibility at all. I'm not saying that procedures need to be fully simplified and money allocated without any criteria, but in particular, all signatures of consciousness to one document need to be simplified. In addition, all those documents that the bodies can obtain within the system themselves should be sought and not burdened by users. It will also be necessary to compare support and support system with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and rural development programmes, as they are completely different and thus send bad messages to entrepreneurs. It is true that the public calls mentioned are discussed on the basis of two different public policies, but some harmonisations can be carried out. Next, entrepreneurship. There's a lot to talk about in entrepreneurship. It's a very bad communication with end-users. Entrepreneurs don't understand at all, i.e. They're not familiar with what they're offered. They often don't know who to turn to. Today everyone deals with this job, so often entrepreneurs just get a pretty good fee for the empty paperwork and never do anything. Maybe some kind of chamber or something to establish on the subject of consultants, entrepreneurial support institutions. Excessive and too much unnecessary documentation to be requested when applying to the competition. Evaluation, decision, results take too long. We often get into a situation where someone looking for funds to invest in tourism in the 12th month gets the same in the fifth or sixth months when they are no longer allowed to perform during the season, so such funds no longer make sense. In the case of entrepreneurs, a single form should be taken from the forms. All documentation is available via the Internet anyway. Mandatoryly abolish the condition that an entrepreneur as a co-financing of his own funds must literally block the amount in the account until he receives results that may be approved and then still wait a few months. The agencies that conduct the ministry tenders are often not familiar with the real situation on the ground, so we often have a problem where the two laws, regulations, do not allow each other to be implemented. In terms of funding and innovation and the general promotion of young innovators, we are not very good at all. The quick approach to competition information is too late for the entrepreneur to receive the first information about the competition when it is called or just before. The announcements are stupid, the announcements should practically be and should already explain everything that needs to be prepared for the competition. The control of Croatian products by trade chains has recently been cancelled by our goods in trade chains without explanation and without anyone asking the question. The Ministry, register of approved or notified projects should be made mandatory. It often happens that, for example, the local self-government unit simultaneously applies to two competitions and gets both. That's why they're coming into a double funding situation, and that's forbidden. I quote, when one of the preconditions for obtaining accreditation is listed also the MI system, i.e. a simplified information system that will monitor ESI funds in this financial perspective. The question is which is being asked is where is the new MIS, on which nothing is known since the opening of public procurement in 2015. About hiring here, we have the same fund that's pretty interesting. I think I've only got time to read three, four lines, which is that, for example, existing active policy measures need to be brought into line with the real situation on the market. The most dangerous age is between the ages of thirty and fifty, especially women, because all the encouraging measures go up to twenty-nine years and 50 years. It is necessary to activate entrepreneurship centres, incubators, accelerators and which code to connect companies.../Buka in the hall, it is not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3025	My colleague and colleague are speaking, let her hear what she's saying, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3026	Educations according to the coaching model throughout the project design cycle. We have good examples of an exponential growth in economic development precisely when it comes to training coaches who in a year or two carried out several
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3027	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3028	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3029	Thank you very much. We have time for another individual debate before we get
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3030	If you only allow a sentence?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3031	No, but you've gone way too far for a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3032	Just one sentence, so here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3033	No, but be careful, there are rules here, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3034	Okay, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3035	Here's another individual debate we'll have. She is a respected representative of Mare Kristic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3036	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Today's debate has drawn some conclusions. So, first of all, that we have not taken seriously the process of accession and preparation for the use of EU funds that is demanding and requires specific knowledge and great investment in human potentials. The existing implementing acts do not provide for even development and do not give everyone equal opportunities to attract funds from the EU funds. The results tell the best about it. So with 300 million euros that we have used so far through various projects of 10.7 billion euros available to us by 2023 if we continue with such dynamics we will have a total use of around 30% somewhere. The adoption of operational programmes and strategies was delayed and a number of errors were made in the process due to the speed. We lost the personnel we trained because we couldn't get them high-quality salaries. So, the private sector has got to the quality. However, the highest funds are those used by the state and various state institutions. I don't think it's a proper responsibility to transfer to the former government alone, but there are problems at all levels both for the municipalities and for the state, and at these levels there are different political options. I would therefore agree with today's presentation of my colleague, Puh, who said that only quality reforms can be implemented by consensus. So here I propose that all together in this area, we bring together the strengths to the full and bring forward such an implementation framework that will ensure the maximum absorption of EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3037	Thank you very much. And here's exactly 12.00 hours, so we're going to approach this part of today's work. This ended today's vote and we return to the previous point, of course, which we have not completed, and these are individual discussions related to the Report on the audit of the effectiveness of EU funds management in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I understand the joy of a successful vote, but please give it to me, I would like to give a word to my distinguished colleague, Blazen Boban, who answered for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3039	I thank Mr. President, a warm welcome to all MPs and MPs. And I have to be honest and say, if we were to stick to the Rules of Procedure on all these points of the audit report really, it's hard to discuss Mr. President in this way in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3040	I beg you, if you are no longer interested, and obviously not, one good part, then at least let your colleague Boban say what he has the right to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3041	I will repeat, if we were to stick to the Rules of Procedure in principle on all these points of the audit report, indeed all of us in order and in the name of clubs and individual debates are not in line with the Rules of Procedure because we are always discussing what is the point of the revision and not the very report of the revision that we should discuss. But we have no other options in the assembly here, to discuss what the revision has given its report. So that's how I'm going to look at the work of an audit that's really great, well-assembled and it's shown a series, I'd say so of negativity, negligence and inactivity. Mr. Grcic here presented through his report to the club some data and I think his debate was focused after that exhibition in '15 and not '13 and '14. When the 15th year's revision comes in, his data will probably be accurate. I can't talk about it right now. But here it is, the numbers of the inexorable and the sign of equality and that number behind the sign of equality is quite clear. From 1 July 2013 until the end of 2014, the Republic of Croatia paid more, almost 30 million euros or exactly 29 million 533 thousand 744 euros. This omen minus behind the sign of equality is clearly mathematically talking about the results of both the government and all the protracted institutions to what was done in the middle of the year of '13 and the whole 14th year. But there are likely objective circumstances and should be honest, and these objective circumstances have arisen again because of something else. Here I'm going to say one piece of information that is really for me and us, and I'm going to look back a little bit from the position of the local community, very interesting. Imagine, two agencies I'll mention here, the Agency for Explosive Spaces, has 55 employees. A Central Agency for the Financing and Negotiation of the European Union Programme 108 employees. When you add to this agency the Civil Aviation Agency, which has some 75, 80 employees, then you will see how important it has been added to the Central Agency for the financing and management of European Union programmes. And I think and will say from the perspective of local communities that this central agency must be the strongest and most stable agency in the Republic of Croatia for two reasons. At local levels and very many local units you have that are mostly sub-catered both human and financial. They are not able to implement preparations for the application of projects within the European Union. And I responsibly claim that such local communities in Croatia have over 70%. Therefore, I sincerely hope that not this way but strategically change course and set up, that is, this agency, which is the Central Agency for the Management of European Maritime Projects, must immediately be assigned to young people born but from a college that is very well, and I know from personal experience in their local community working and applying European funds. And they also have to be in disposition to all local administrations and in some way isolated from the policy itself. The Central Agency for the financing and negotiation of European Union projects must also be with its facilities in the areas of the Republic of Croatia at least in these central cities because trust me that really small local communities, including the central local communities, are not able to monitor these projects financially. That's why the center has to be on an agency like this that has to be if it has to be converted to young people. That way we've secured two conditions. One condition is that youth employment doesn't go to big centres or go out to us as it has happened over the past two years. On the other hand, this agency must be the central body of the Republic of Croatia, but not only of the national level, but of all counties, of all local communities, of all private entrepreneurs, and it is not much today if it has thousands of people dislocated to individual major centres across the Republic of Croatia. In this way it will not happen as is evident from this report that it is not known, it does not know left what it is doing right and vice versa, it does not know right what it is doing right as popularly said in us because we are going to assume there is one head of less municipality he simply does not know who to address, and within the local administration there is no repeat for the third time neither the expert staff nor the financial potential to finance the preparation of the project. He'll go to one, okay. Some county agency and these will tell him you know this type of project and that idea that you have should come to the Ministry of Regional Development. By the way, the Ministry of Regional Development as it has now worked we can freely call it the Ministry of Urban Development because this way through this central agency does not potentiate the preparation of projects in rural areas, mainly in rural areas of Slavonia, Dalmatia Zagora, Gorski Kotar. If the central agency were to be dislocated with its facilities across Croatia, it would indeed be much easier to solve projects. So once again, I'm going to say the report to the very end of this shown number with a prefix minus the equal sign. That's pure math. What was said here with praise is likely or will or will not but will come as a result of the revision in 2015. Thank you very much for your understanding and your hearing. It was a little awkward at the time, because here the MPs raised their hands and voted and left, and what is important and most crucial, the most important thing in the Republic of Croatia is to activate the young potential in preparing EU projects mainly for rural environments, because as the song says they will take care of it themselves, and I think of large urban environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3042	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3043	Comrade Boban, I agree with most of your discussion, agree on these human potentials, on the under-representation of young people in these units of local (regional) self-government and ministries in the preparation and implementation of these projects. But I don't agree with the part where you mentioned the numbers. Obviously, it's a different interpretation on both sides of the assembly. But so there are no false interpretations, I'll read the exact report that's from the audit. From 2007 to 2013, when IPA funds started to be used, 97% of the funds were contracted and paid off, while structural funds were less used because there were not enough projects. It was found and used until 2012. 250 million euros. In the mandate of the government's SDP, 1 billion and 500 million were agreed and 750 million were paid out of structural funds. For 2014, 300 million euros were agreed and paid. That's the exact data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3044	Thank you. They will answer the esteemed Blessed Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3045	Your Honor, I don't know if we have the same audit report. I'll also quote from this material and from the efficiency assessment the final word. Here, it says here that the above assessment confirms and conducts an analysis of the data... with other Member States, on the basis of which the Republic of Croatia with 50.3% of the funds received from the European Commission in 24 places from 28 Member States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm gonna skip this irrelevant passport, so I'm gonna say it. On the basis of the Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia from 1 July 2013 to 31 December 2014, the EU budget paid 699 million 491 million 530 euros and received 721 million 874 thousand 335.58 euros from EU funds resulting in it receiving 22 million 382 thousand 805.52 euros more than it paid by ending that period as a net recipient. In addition to the payment of the EU budget through a system of own funds, the Republic of Croatia is based on a accession and payment contract of 51 million 966 thousand 550.06 euros as a special payment to the European Investment Bank of the Research Fund for Coal and Steel totaling 751 million 458 080 points 12 euros. When you deduct this sum of 751 million from the received 721 million, you get a sum of minus 29 million 583 744 euros. This is the final State Audit report that we've all been praising here, and I'm right here in zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3046	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Radiir Cacic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Afterwards, an individual debate was reported by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3047	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also briefly get involved in the debate and the findings of the countries of the audit office for the efficiency and management of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the State Audit Office has done its job and assessed the effectiveness of managing EU funds in the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, the objective of the revision was to assess the effectiveness of management of the structural instruments since the entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia by the end of 2014. The State Audit Office has assessed by applying the established criteria that the Croatian government and the Republic of Croatia have done the job partially. The figures that I will mention later, mentioned by fellow MPs and MPs during the debate, can be very easily argued that this was indeed ineffective, only slightly more than 50% of the funds used. And when it is known that some countries such as Estonia, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic that have a similar newer history than Croatia's communist regime have done much, much more than Croatia, Croatia is starting only 24 of the 28 EU member states. An objective and justifiable question arises why they can, why can't Croatia? Some of the weaknesses identified are that measures should be taken and should be taken in the future and measures should be accelerated to employ the estimated number of employees. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Greek here who found that it's simply not true that it's politically humanised. The whole reality and truth is different, and only after a year, two when really these results that we are reading now and past the government and the minister himself realized that absolutely nothing can be done without the professional staff has turned the board too late and then started looking for people who know their jobs rather than primarily by party, party or other belongings. The European Commission itself has warned Croatia that there is insufficient administrative capacity i.e. that there are not enough professionals working on the use of EU funds. It is also the State Office for the Audit of Opinions that if all the audit entities responsible for the management of structural instruments do not speed up activities aimed at the negotiation, certification and payment of funds to end-users, there is a risk that the funds will not be used and the result is that we have a fall in employment, stagnation in the economy, a decline in investment. What is also stated in the identified weaknesses is that it is necessary to establish and work on this in the future on an organisational unit in a way that will allow for the independent performance of the prescribed tasks and functions for which the coordinating body will be responsible in accordance with the law, then strengthen the role in the coordination, exchange of information and data coordination of all audit entities. And what can also be read from this document, and it is evident from the figures that we were talking about here, that in the second half of 2013 the dynamics of the treaty were extremely slow while in the first half of 2014 and sometime by the end of 2014, the pace was slightly accelerated but definitely insufficient. What is crucial is data from the Ministry of Finance, so the Republic of Croatia has paid 751m and 458000 euros in total in the EU through its own budget and through payments due to be paid to the EU through a system of other funds. And she got 699 million and 491 thousand euros. This says that we are below 29m euros, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia the former government has fully scheduled for the dynamics and presentation of the programme, as well as the funds it was supposed to receive. These are alarming data that are difficult to defend and that, regardless of demagogy, pre-election campaign, the time after the election of numbers simply deny. I'm sorry we didn't get the answer and what started and what happened to the EU fund information system? Because in April 2012, the establishment of this information system began. Until 2015, it was a full stagnation and afterwards the ministry is going to hold a new invitation to tender for the purchase of a completely new system. So it was spent on the old, the costs of the new, and what was the biggest problem was that in those two years nothing was done. So when this competition was published, the old system was supposed to be in full function, and he didn't revive at all. So he threw his money at the previous system, and the new one didn't come back to life. And these are the things that actually marked the mandate of the four-year-old last government and the rest of the ministry is known under the "EU Fund Software" affair. And a little bit about local communities. Often local communities, said counterpart Boban and all those who come from local and regional self-government, have good ideas, prepare excellent innovative projects to ensure a better quality and better life for their citizens. There are a number of proposals that can be financed both infrastructure and other funding from EU funds but are major problems that they face precisely in the realisation of these projects. Of course, the shortcomings are sources of funding, and the state government failed to help them, did not instruct them or inform them about the sources and ways of funding from European funds. The fact is that a better job has been done in that part to ensure that growth is greater and that units of local self-government and all those living in cities and municipalities that would receive this money from European funds will have much, much better and better quality living, and Croatia will not be in this minus but take much more than other EU countries. So, ultimately, he's late for project implementation, with payments, with agreed programmes. There was definitely not enough efficiency and, therefore, Croatia started with the number 24th in terms of taking money from the EU funds, showing that it had neither a plan nor a programme for money from European funds, which was necessary and that all of our citizens were expecting Croatia to join the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3048	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First, she is a respected representative of Tomislav Koncevski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3049	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I agree with my colleague Mađeric, in one thing, too late for experts to get involved in all this together. Here's the review done an extraordinary job, but I'd like the review to establish that we can't deal with pulsism and say how we're going to cut our salaries to the experts, and who's going to work for us? Experts all who know something are appreciated outside, and they're gonna drag all those experts out. And we're going to be running out of expert personnel just because we're talking about cutting our salaries to the experts. So where are we gonna go with such rhetoric? I think that we need to predict rewards for such people and that we need to increase their wages so that we can withdraw those funds that we need. And we get on them, if they get higher wages, they'll surely be pushing for us to withdraw as much money as possible, and that's our profit in all that. And this is the truth that the experts got involved too late, and I hope that this new government will recognize that thing that needs to reward the experts to stay with us and to withdraw as much funds for us as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3050	Thank you. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3051	... how to reduce wages to experts. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I have just provided information that the European Commission has warned Croatia that there is not enough expert, administrative staff to work on EU projects to get as much funding from these programmes as possible. And the new Croatian government is exactly that, reform and professional, and it is certain that people in the state administration who know their jobs, who are professional, who have been working especially on EU programmes for years, will not quit and bring in the party party staff as SDP has done.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3052	And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3053	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Mađerić, it is good and it is positive that a legal framework has been established, which is the basic basis for all further activities. The problem is, as we heard in the fluctuations of people in the ministries, an insufficient number of quality people, or people with experience, resulting in delays in projects. Bad co-ordination is the ministries with local self-government units to respond more quickly and give the ministry an impasse. Disrespecting the agreed deadlines for advance payments by ministries where civil organisations do not have their own funds, so they are the most vulnerable there. The changes of a large number of project leaders so that new leaders do not approve of the changes of their predecessors, too many administrations, so it is not enough that you just deliver your projects in electronic form so that when we come from a local level we have twenty and thirty registries that we bring in if we hand over one project. From all of this, it means that we need to move as quickly as possible, be more effective and work on all of these projects. So we don't have much time, we've lost a lot, we've seen that we're 4 out of 28 EU countries, and here's hoping that the new government will have a lot more hearing and new ministries, and that it will deal with these problems that we've heard here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3054	Thank you. The distinguished representative Margareta Majeric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3055	Thank you very much. A colleague of Maximchuk really explained the problems facing people in local, regional self-government, cities and municipalities. Here's specifically in Brod-Posavina County. In the City of Zagreb, which is the most developed city that has the largest number of employees in both the city administration and Zagreb holding company was a huge problem just by applying to the programs because there were no..., there was no help from the state bodies, from the government and all those from whom it was needed. And how this wouldn't be in a lot of smaller municipalities and cities that have a much smaller number of employees, especially those who are particularly skilled at applying to such programs, not to mention financial resources, solving property-legal problems and all that they encounter during application for programmes. I therefore believe that we will have the same development of all units of local self-government, all municipalities, cities and counties, and precisely in that part that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be an aid to both cities and municipalities in order to really get that money where it is most needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3056	Thank you very much. And now, as last in the name of the representative club, the final word will be given to the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3057	Dear Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and respected MPs, please allow me to just try and give our pain to this whole story in these few minutes. The State Audit Office's report showed inexorable figures. We don't know of course what happened last year, but it'll probably show up next. I would like to draw attention to one other thing on behalf of our club, which is that in Croatia, there is a growing myth about EU funds, a myth, a fascination which, in practice, I will say, just more and more ground up let's say not only programmes, but relying on our own sources of funding that I thought they didn't exist, or that we don't have anything. Here is a short check, from 2014 someone here mentioned by 2002 that Croatia has planned to withdraw from the EU 13. billion euros and the planned payments of Croatia are about 3.5 billion euros. Let's assume that the usability of these net differences is 10 billion that is 7 billion euros because as you can see, no one pulls everything out, the best are the Poles. So that's seven billion, right? And when you do an analysis of how foreign a substance is, it means either goods or consulting or services, it's about 50%. So 50% of the 7 billion is 3.5 billion, we just get to the 3.5 billion we paid. That's interesting, isn't it? Because what did the writer want to say here? So the results are thin, here's a colleague who just quoted the state audit report even some minus, we'll see if it's for 2015 plus. But gentlemen, it's all thin. So someone doesn't get me wrong that we're against EU funds, no, but we need to use what we can, but messages and recommendations and audits have already been sent here to make the best teaming work. So look how many young people we have who are like young lions, who know languages, they just have to be trained, means they use what they can, so at least the percentage and the gentleman was saying, the percentage of usability increases. So, they're prevailing over us more and more, so I'd like to draw attention to those verbs to pull, write a good one. Okay, everything's fine, but here I'm free to say one thesis, so scientific is we can discuss, prove, the more we rely on EU funds, the less we rely on our own potential as a first and when I say less on our own potential, then it means sources of funding. Now somebody's gonna say well, you're pretending here smart, which are sources of funding. And I say, among other than the banking system, that is the Croatian National Bank. And that is why we finally need to have a central bank because the Croatian National Bank is not a central bank, so to increase it means that we open new funding channels and there will certainly be talks in the coming weeks and months, and that is how we start, let's say stronger development projects. So EU funds should be, should be used, they should be a secondary and auxiliary source of funding for development. We can come into our own trap, meaning that creating not only feelings but addiction to it and only going to the dominant on that track we simply forget some important things that we have as potential. Because I'm sorry to be so clear, if we're funding something that's related to Croatia, where domestic goods, work, etc., so we don't need foreign exchanges, you understand. Well, that's another story I wouldn't open. So finally about it, we need to take care of it, it's been warned here. And so use the maximum of what is offered, which is necessary but I warn, so we warn that our funding channels need to activate our brains, our money for projects that we can of course design. Otherwise, this will become more and more hunger games and Croatia must not, for another three seconds, become a European Union beggar but must become a rich country, we can and we know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3058	Thank you, we have one replica of the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3059	In one part of my colleague Lovrinović, I cannot agree with you in any way because every country, first of all, has the opportunity to withdraw so much and so much in terms of agriculture and uniform regional development. And all that we have so far funded in agriculture from the domestic budget is financed from the European Union's funds. And if we are obliged to pay a billion and so many euros a year in the joint budget, amongst other things, because these are practically all customs funds. And then if we have the right to withdraw 3.5 billion kuna, why don't we take it back. I just don't see it. Another thing, Poles have completely recovered their rail infrastructure, hence infrastructure and what they are transporting from EU funds. The second thing, to clarify this story about the CNB, was never to be financed beyond the calendar year by funds from the Croatian National Bank. In the past, while the Croatian National Bank's funds were used to bridge, it was only within the calendar year. So they are, so anyone can have their own vision. We can discuss the CNB one way or another. But I think there is simply no other way to think about EU funds, but to exploit all the potential and capacity and to withdraw the 3.5 billion that we are offered. Why? Why is it so bickering around the region is the region like this, is the region like that? So because certain regions that are less developed practically for most projects can withdraw 80% of the grants. Now I don't see the logic, 3.5 billion are at our disposal and we can get it and we can just give it up and it'll take someone else. Because it's just our money that belongs to us by some criteria. And we can talk about the CNB and the story of the CNB in one way or another. However, it has never happened that the central bank is and find an example in Europe, that the central bank is financing certain projects. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3060	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3061	Well, Mr. Schucker, fellow Shucker, if you've been listening very carefully but you haven't listened since the beginning, I haven't said in a single word that we should reject the EU funds. You simply misheard or interpreted me, so there's no talking about it. You need to use what you can. I was talking about the aggregated amount, so it shows what it is, so you missed it, so I'm not saying it again. And as for funding from domestic sources and the role of the central bank, which is one broad question that we will raise. That's not open for 20 years. Unfortunately, you were Minister of Finance, too. You didn't take advantage of that opportunity because you thought it was a story that has to be and remain, but we'll all have opportunities to talk about it in a professional, scientific way, and in addition to that, using the meaning of experience, referring to the experiences of exactly the euro area, or countries that didn't accept the euro, but are members of the European Union, and in particular, I mean mechanisms for whether visible or hidden mechanisms in which the Central Bank strongly unseen in the historical frameworks participated, but it's well designed through the banking system to make everything a legitimate artis, and that's never been discussed with us, let alone. So I'm saying it's a special topic. We have to open it or this country will never get out of the crisis. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-19-0.u3062	Thank you very much. Here's what we'd like to discuss about this point and today's work. Due to these few braves who remained the sequel will be on Wednesday 24 February at 9.30 p.m. and we will begin with the report on the audit of efficiency carried out and preventing the detection of fraud among companies owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Thank you very much and have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 12.46 hours. Next we have a report on the effectiveness of management of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia. The report shall be submitted to the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Regional Development of EU Funds, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the effectiveness of the management of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia is accepted." Please vote. The vote is over. 104 votes in favour, 1 abstention. I find that most votes have concluded that it has been proposed by the EU Regional Development Committee.
