ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3859	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I ask you to take our seats and go as we predicted the first point today is - The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2014. Reporter is the Croatian National Bank Material was delivered to you in boxes. The government has delivered its opinion. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Governor of the Croatian National Bank Mr. Boris Vujčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3860	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the law, the Croatian National Bank informs the Croatian Parliament twice a year of the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. In its further presentation with the information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy, I will also look back at the potential and role of monetary policy in economic recovery and growth of Croatia. On that trail, I would like to begin first by assessing the overall dynamics of economic activity in the past period for which the report applies. Real GDP has mostly stagnated at a low level since the end of 2013, and at the annual level, gross domestic product in the Republic of Croatia has actually decreased by 0.4% due to a decline in economic activity in the second half of 2013. In addition, the gross domestic value decreased in most activities, mostly in construction and primary activities – agriculture, forestry and fisheries. On the other hand, the processing industry has shown signs of recovery, but looking at the overall crisis since the end of 2014, there has been a cumulative decline in economic activity of 12.4%. In 2014, a positive contribution to economic growth came primarily from export growth. In contrast, domestic demand continued to decrease, and the main reasons were the re-intention of the decline in investment,... households and unfavourable expectations in future economic developments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such developments in real economic activity have also been reflected in the labour market. The number of employees stagnated at a low level reached at the end of 2013, and decreased by 0.9% year-on-year due to a strong decline in the second half of 2013. The number of registered unemployed persons in contrast has dropped sharply. This was primarily due to the increased erasure of those unemployed persons from the HZZ records who did not comply with the legal provisions. When we talk about the average registered unemployment rate, it decreased slightly to 19.7% compared to 20.3% in 2013. The relevant internationally comparable unemployment survey was held at an average of 17.3%. When it comes to labour prices, nominal wages have stagnated while real wages have been slightly increased by 0.4% as a result of consumer price reductions. What happened to the general level of prices? The average annual consumer price inflation rate decreased from 2.2% in 2013 to -0.2% in 2014. The average annual rate of change in the basic index of consumer prices from which energy and agricultural products were excluded, but not processed food products were -0.4% in 2014 and was more pronounced than the total index. It is important to point out that inflation had the greatest impact on the trend of raw materials prices on the world market, particularly on the price of food raw materials that have been poured into domestic prices. Trends in the world market price of crude oil have been present since July, and has increased during November and December, so the price of the 56-dollar oil barrel was recorded at the end of the year by 50% lower than the mid-year price. Low foreign and domestic economic activity and low core inflation in the euro area also contributed to a lower reduction in domestic inflation in 2014. The absence of domestic cost pressures seen in the stagnation of unit labour costs has further contributed to the achievement of low inflation. The current balance of payments account in 2014 already recorded a surplus of 0.7% of GDP in 2014 compared to 0.8% in 2013. This was the most contributed by the export of services due to the growth of revenues from tourism, and the rapid growth of goods exports from goods imports. At the same time, foreign-owned profits of banks and businesses and increased foreign-state interest costs reduced the surplus of the current account. In addition, the surplus decreased compared to the previous year due to a weaker allocation of EU funds to end-users compared to state payments in the EU budget. In this respect, it should be pointed out that only assets paid to end-users are recorded in the current and capital account, while the accepted or unscheduled assets are recorded in the financial account. Taking into account the unallocated resources, the total EU balance of transactions was positive in 2014. Foreign capital flows were largely affected by the improvement of the net debt position of banks which also reduced their foreign liabilities and increased foreign assets. On the other hand, the debt of the state has grown much less than in 2013 because the state has provided part of the financial needs at the end of 2013. The net foreign direct investment increased from 2013 to 2013, but above all due to the rise in profits of foreign-owned domestic banks while the inflow of equity investments was less than the year before, if the impact of the circular direct investment was excluded in 2014. The most investment has been made in other business activities, real estate business and hotels and restaurants. If Croatia's net debt position is observed, its improvement which began in 2011 was continued in 2014. The net foreign debt was mildly reduced and at the end of the year was 25.2 billion euros and 58.5% of GDP, respectively. By contrast, during 2014, gross foreign debt increased by 0.8 billion euros and reached 46.7 billion euros. Its growth is solely due to the adverse effect of inter-currency changes due to US dollar reinforcements towards the euro, although protection against exchange rate risk has been embedded in most bond releases. Due to the growth of debt and GDP cuts, the relative indicator of gross foreign debt in 2014 has also deteriorated at 108.4% of GDP. At the end of 2014, international reserves amounted to 12.7 billion euros, which is 1.7% less than at the end of the previous year. The decline in reserves was influenced by net foreign exchange sales totalling 0.2 billion euros and a reduction in the state's foreign currency deposit at the CNB. While in the direction of the increase in reserves, profits from their investment and the positive exchange rate difference were made. Unlike gross reserves, net reserves available increased by 0.1 billion euros in 2014 and reached 10.7 billion euros at the end of the year. Despite the reduction in gross international reserves, the indicator of their sufficiency was measured by the short-term foreign debt, according to the remaining maturity, slightly improved and was 92.2% or 0.7% more than the previous year. As with so far, the international reserves of the Republic of Croatia continued to be managed on the principles of high security and liquidity. The return rate of the CNB dollar portfolio for trading in 2014 was 0.24% while the rate of return of the CNB euro portfolio for trading in the same period was 0.42%. A better result compared to the same period in 2013 is the result of the decline in yields and the rise in the prices of German and US bonds as well as the rise in prices of other euro bonds in which foreign reserves were invested. The euro portfolio, which holds to maturity whose assets are invested in longer-term bonds, achieved a return of 2.06%. Now let's move on to the banking sector that they also reflected before the unfavourable macroeconomic movements were described. Bank profitability indicators in 2014 are well below the levels considered to be good even though they have improved slightly compared to 2013. And bank profits recovered in 2014 after a strong decrease in 2013. The reduced cost of booking for losses was the most important factor in the increase in profits, although they continued to significantly burden the bank’s business results with less booking costs. The recovery of earnings was also contributed by the higher operating profit achieved by the fall of passive interest rates and the lower cost of funding sources and further efforts towards optimization of business. The revenues increased by selling part of the business, the general costs continued to fall, and the revenues from the commission and the fees increased. However, the basic source of interest income continued the decline due to poor credit activity, growth of problematic claims and new consumer lending rules. In line with the above, profitability indicators recovered from the previous year, with the profitability of the average asset increased to 0.6% and the profitability of the average capital in the banking system to 3.6%. Profitability has violated growing losses in bank credit portfolios. The quality of bank credit portfolios was adversely affected by macroeconomic developments and the lack of recovery of economic credit activity. The share of partially compensateable and completely non-refundable placements in total plasmas was 16.9% and increased compared to 15.7% of those recorded at the end of 2013 and the cost of credit risk was also retained at an increased level. After three years of consecutive bank cuts, they increased their off-balance sheet liabilities by 2.7 billion kuna in 2014. In the structure of off-balance sheet liabilities, it was too difficult to increase the framework loans and commitments undertaken to finance public companies and, according to other companies, the banks are off-balance sheet... the most increased on the basis of the guarantees issued. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, banks have a high ratio of capital that makes them resistant to these disorders. The total regulatory capital rate of banks rose slightly and stood at 21.4%. By introducing a new capital regime... In 2014, business risks remained adequately covered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This contributed to the high level and quality of capital items and measures taken on the protective layers of capital. At the same time, regulatory capital and total risk exposure were reduced although the reduced total risk exposure was more pronounced due to a decline in exposure to credit risk. The capitalisation of banks was positively affected by the rise in coverage of non-income loans which increased from 46.2 to 51.3 during 2014, thus reducing the negative potential impact of credit risk on bank stability and this was the result of tighter reservation conditions, i.e. covering such risks introduced by the Croatian National Bank. The ratio of equity ratios to 20.5%, from 20.5% to 23.5% in 2014 mostly due to a reduction in credit risk exposure. Public finances in 2014 marked Croatia's entry into the procedure with an excessive deficit. In terms of economic stagnation and low inflation, despite the ongoing consolidation efforts, there has been a further deterioration in the main fiscal indicators. The introduction of an ESA statistical methodology in October 2013 at the same time in all European Union members has also significantly deteriorated the quantification of fiscal indicators, particularly to the level of public debt that has happened in some member states of the European Union including Croatia. In 2014, the Croatian National Bank continued to run an expansion monetary policy while maintaining a stable exchange rate according to the euro, a key prerequisite for maintaining financial stability in Croatia. The expansion of monetary policy is primarily reflected in ensuring a high level of kuna liquidity of the monetary system. However, high liquidity is not its own purpose, but the Central Bank seeks to contribute to improving the funding conditions for all domestic market entities. As a result, credit institutions had an average surplus of kuna liquidity in 2014 compared to 2013 so overnight interest rates on the interbank market and on the market were kept at extremely low levels. In addition, high liquidity has had a favourable impact on the decline of active and passive interest rates of domestic banks. The CNB with high liquidity maintenance also sought to stimulate growth... Banks to the economy and to purchase mandatory cash registers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the end of 2013, the Central Bank has been incentivising credit activity by the purchase of mandatory registered cash registers prior to the maturity period of banks which have recorded the growth of loans granted to companies. Despite the efforts,... the domestic credit activity in 2014 has lagged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reasons should be sought in the suppressed investment demand in the conditions of high corporate over-indebtedness, insufficient collaterals in the period of falling real estate prices, continued deleveraging of the population sector and low levels of business and consumer optimism, as well as the already mentioned large share of bad plasmas and therefore reduced risk proneness of banks and business entities. Thus, credit institutions, domestic sectors, including the central state, fell 3% off exchange rate changes. And if seen, however, the total exposure of the company sector to loans has increased but because part of the company has increased its credit debt abroad. To sum up, the CNB supported monetary policy instruments to improve the financing conditions of the state of banks and the private sector and encouraged domestic lending while maintaining the stability of the nominal exchange rate to the euro as a key prerequisite for maintaining financial stability. Nevertheless, as a result of the poor implementation of structural reforms, Croatia has been significantly lagging behind in turning negative trends and dynamics of real growth compared with the new Member States of the European Union. Areas in which it is necessary to continue to step up efforts to implement structural reforms are, in particular, improving the business climate and raising the competitiveness of the domestic economy, increasing foreign direct investment, which together needs to affect the increase in exports. Monetary policy will support such efforts through all available monetary policy instruments and the appropriate liquidity of the financial system, subject to, of course, the continuing stability of the domestic currency exchange rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3861	Thank you very much. I'm opening the debate. And for the debate, the first one appeared on behalf of the Club of Representatives MOST, the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović, and I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3862	Mr. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Governor. I want to welcome you first before the debate begins on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most and the topic is the Annual Report of the CNB for 2014. Well, here's what I'm gonna take advantage of. I hope this time can present what our views on this matter are. They say mental people that the Central Bank is the third most important invention of civilization after fire and wheel. If that's what they say, then it's really something important and it's really an important institution for every country. In addition, monetary authority, the Central Bank is monetary government, it is IV. A pillar of government in every country and so does the Croatian National Bank in Croatia. At first, I would like to say immediately that despite its importance as part of economic policy, the Central Bank has a certain power but has certain limits. So it is not a magic wand for all economic problems and failures but in certain periods imbalances can indeed be a crucial instrument and leverage to correct macro-economic imbalances. Since the central bank, as they say in a joke, is also a very important institution, then we really can't just leave it to the central bankers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the Croatian National Bank states that the CNB is its main objective and is solely responsible for maintaining price stability. In the annual report, as well as in the governor's speech today, he noted we see that inflation that year was negative and was at a minus level of 0.2, -0.2 respectively. -0.4 a. in January 2016 according to CNB -0.8. So this isn't about an incident. We have a third year in a row that Croatia faces deflation without any indication and clear monetary policy measures for its elimination. So, I'm closing. The fact that we have deflation means that we have price instability, so it is clear that the CNB has not fulfilled its key law, its key objective according to the law. You can see that right here on the graph that you see here. So, at the end of 2014, that's, that's this shaded area below zero, and that's added in 2015 we actually have 2015 that in 2016 we have a third year in a row of deflation. Is deflation a bad phenomenon? So far, we have had terrible experience with inflation and is constantly afraid of Croatian citizens of inflation and, of course, it is a major disease. However, deflation can be a greater disease than inflation if inflation is not devastating, meaning hyper inflation. Why is inflation, why is deflation even more evil than inflation? Because prices generally fall, there is a reduction in total company income. As a result, profits are reduced. When profits are reduced, wages are reduced to workers, and if they are not reduced, redundancies are increased. Stocks are stockpiled, production is reduced and gross domestic product is eventually reduced. So in that one causal chain we see the devastating consequences of deflation. Deflation is the phenomenon of increasing savings because people are afraid of uncertainty about losing their jobs, and on the other hand, of reducing spending. Someone's gonna say after maybe or from the CNB that the consumption is still showing that it's growing. First of all, it's growing here, past the government has something to do with the fact that, due to fiscal moves, it has increased some consumption, not because of the expansion of monetary policy. Therefore, which is the only real solution in the deflation environment is an increase in aggregate demand, which must be preceded by an increase in expansion monetary policy and a significant reduction in interest rates. In other words, that we understand each other better, we need to reflect the Croatian economy at an annual level between two, I will dare say four percent, because we are not Germany, France. Therefore, another transition country. This report is about the report itself, he's an egg-like egg from previous years, and we can see him. I'm sorry that the governor here hasn't listed some of the risky moments, some of the phenomena that are burdening and present a problem for both the economy and monetary policy, so we can gain a much more quality impression of a more objective state of affairs. We are witnessing that the CNB has recently blamed others for this situation, so deflation is blamed, well with one price of energy above all oil that is a real phenomenon, but it is true for other countries. It does not import only Croatian oil. It is also guilty of agricultural products not processed from imports and other imports of agricultural products, but others have benefited from a better monetary policy. So that can't be an excuse because other countries have had the same or the same situation. In this context, I reiterate once again that the most important objective of the Croatian National Bank is not met, we have price instability that reminds you, and this is a key obligation of the CNB in the CNB Act and this will further influence and make the overall economic situation worse in Croatia. So what kind of economic situation is this just to remind you? It has dropped around 13% since the beginning of 2009, and GDP has fallen 13%, which is a terrible fall. During the same period, the number of employees decreased by about 200 thousand. In this is the most frightening fact that about 50% of the youth who are unemployed. Private and public sector debt has increased which further destabilises this destabilized economy. Here we see at this slide if you look at Croatia's bottom. It is the only country in this group of Central and Southeast European countries that is also in 2014 because we are talking about a 2014 report that has had a GDP decline. Someone will say why you're talking about economic growth, because monetary policy is not in charge of economic growth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The CNB law also said that it was in charge and supported by the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, so the government is in line with the principles of an open market economy. However, in the last version of the 2013 CNB Act, and that obligation has been formally disappeared even though someone can say that they should not, because it can be invoked to the Statute of the European Central Bank and say that this is implicit, to be understood. In addition to GDP, we can say that unemployment is also of no interest to the Croatian National Bank. Does she have anything to do with unemployment? She'll say no, so she's not the employment bureau. In economic theory, it is well known that there are extremely strong links between money, employment, unemployment, economic activity, inflation, etc. Therefore, an active monetary policy can have a significant impact on employment or unemployment. If this trend continues, we will continue to have this high unemployment that has already reached nearly 300 thousand, eviction, depopulation and destabilising society in which radicalism will strengthen, whether left or right orientations. If you look at this picture then you can see again at the bottom that Croatia is with Spain and Greece has the worst, highest unemployment rates, especially young people. The next segment I would like to point out in this context, referring to this CNB report, is a bad credit policy of banks, and banks are subordinated to monetary and credit policy of the central bank. What do I want to say here, say it? Credit policy has not been set up that way and has not occurred by developing, encouraging certain sectors of activity in the economy that are important to us and which should be particularly stimulated. Instead of actively engaging in overcoming long-term depression with a different monetary policy, the CNB encouraged the concept of internal devaluation by suggesting both the Ministry of Finance and the Government and everyone else. This internal devaluation comes down to flexibility, which translates into a reduction in wages and prices and will establish a new economic balance according to this concept, and in this case it is always established at a lower level of living standards. This concept has not brought positive effects anywhere, so neither will Croatia. What is the distribution of bank loans in Croatia and their share in GDP? So look at construction here at this first bar it's got a lot more credit from banks than it contributes to GDP. Look at the agriculture, look at the processing industry, etc. We can see here that monetary, or credit policy is not in the function of encouraging the development of domestic production and in particular certain activities of it. Therefore, despite all its efforts, our agriculture minister will not be able to do anything unless it is changed and the credit policy makes the system of financing agriculture more suitable and cheaper. Furthermore, I can say that the CNB does not follow the policy and recommendations of the European Central Bank, because we aim, we are an EU member but have not yet accepted the euro, what has the European Central Bank or the European System of Central Banks been doing? They acted differently. They ran a more expansional monetary policy. The central banks there have knocked down interest rates to almost 0. During that time interest rates remained very high in Croatia. This destroyed our competitiveness, our exports, and you cannot maintain or withstand competitive pressure in such an environment. On the other hand, in the banking system, we have the same interesting situation. Look at these shaded areas since 2009, especially in 2010, which says banks swim in surplus liquidity. Well, if they pulled some real line, they could see that they have six, seven billion kunas each day extra, they don't know what to do with that money. When you see a situation like this, you can conclude that something really is wrong in that country. So banks don't dare place, for reasons known to them, risk growth, etc., according to the economy. The economy is deleveraging, she wants to get rid of the loan, she's afraid of the future, recession, and we have the effect of so-called. "frozen" economies, which is visible to everything that is happening and GDP growth rates. Let's say something now about the profit and loss bill. Each year, central banks generate some revenue and so does the CNB, it made a net profit of 2.74 billion kuna in 2014 from which 2.22 billion were allocated in the CNB's general reserve and amounted to 516 million in the budget. A year earlier she had a much less net profit, 735 million and set aside 432 million kuna for the state. Therefore, in 2014 compared to 2013, the net profit increased 3.5 times and the budget was only 30%. Which is therefore very interesting, especially in the situation of the budget deficit when it could increase without any difficulty, so that I do not make a donation or single out into the state budget, which would mean a lot. At the very end to say that Croatia actually has essential problems, there is a monetary system that is unhealthy, which prevents the proactive action of monetary policy because we have an neo-colonial monetary system on the principles of the currency board where the CNB cannot broadcast, does not emit money as other central banks but must first have 7.5 kuna pardon must have 1 euro before to emit 7.5 kuna. Such a monetary system was invented by the England Central Bank of Mauritius in the 19th century. And here's just, I don't know, is it over? Here, I'll skip a lot, just give me 20 seconds. [[Intruder: It was over a while ago.]] I mean, based on everything I've been told this report can't be accepted. The CNB did not, like other central banks, take the appropriate monetary and credit policy to support the resolution of employment and GDP growth. In that context, we will be against this report and it hopes that in some discussion, I will be able to say a few more things about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3863	Thank you very much. I ask you all to stick to the time because your colleague has significantly exceeded it. We have four replicas, so there'll be a chance to respond. She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3864	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Lovrinović, you can tell me that the banks in Croatia give credit and at much higher interest, i.e. foreign banks than they are in countries where they come from where their economies use much less interest and citizens and big profits essentially go to these foreign banks, extract capital. Croatia, why do you think Croatia doesn't have a strong national bank, and why are these loans from foreign banks and you said yourself that there is money in banks, which is why these banks, so they just draw money and we don't have a national bank? So what Ante Starcevic said in 1888 is that we will be enslaved worse by foreign bankers and cameras than by all the armies of Europe. Otherwise, we know independence should be the independence of the banking, the CNB and the national banks. But do you know that the governor and vice governor of Croatia's bank have significantly higher salaries than the president of the state, prime minister and minister? The question arises whether you know why the CNB and this to the governor, why the CNB did not become involved in the savings and rationalization policy that everybody else is calling. Is it true that, Mr. Lovrinovic, the directors of the Croatian National Bank have never chosen from the drafts through public tenders, but by the simple decision of the governor? So here we call where there is transparency and quality promotion. The most professional and competent people who could help this collapsed banking system... means how we... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We could've stopped it before, as long as we can now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm asking you a question... Stop there... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3865	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3866	Mr. Bull, thank you for your questions. I have to say, I don't know the answer to most of your questions right now, but I'm guessing the governor's here, so he knows the best institution and home affairs. I can try to answer the following, ask why we have such expensive loans and what kind of currency we have. We have an artificially healthy currency, we have super-healthy money in a very sick economy, and that's impossible by all economic criteria. The stability of the exchange rate of Croatian kuna is maintained primarily by borrowing abroad gentlemen. It's like you keep patients in constant transfusions to stay in shape. And if it's possible to have, you're actually asking me if it's possible to have cheaper loans in Croatia to encourage the competitiveness of the Croatian economy towards other countries. I answer for sure yes. Why are they still high interest rates? We see in the report it says interest rates are dropping, please, what's the fall, that's a fall from 7 to 6, so 5.5, but here we have a drop in mean when it gives, up to 1% in Austria, so when you get loans, you can get housing loans at 2%. So it's around here somewhere. Therefore, the fundamental reason is that the Croatian National Bank does not approve loans in kuna banks in the longer term at a low interest rate, so it does not allow them and thus does not blow their wings so that they can cheape their production, so that they can cheape the price of final products, so that it strengthens them in competition with ruthless competition. Why is that? Well, we're here today to discuss it. That is why it is necessary to implement a monetary reform that we are committed to making simple and monetary policy a useful tool and means to promote competitiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3867	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3868	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Lovrinović, I agree with you that, according to most economic indicators, Croatia is also at the very bottom of all EU members. Just take the indicator of the pensioner's relationship with the number of employees. This tells us all about the state of the Croatian economy. But you've noticed that credit activity is the most important thing for economic activity. The structure of the credit directly affects the structure of the economy and the structure of the economy produces the strength of the national economy. And the strength of the national economy results in the fiscal capacity of the state and is largely a problem in credit activity and credit structure. There is no country in the world that develops and has growth if loans are given more to the population than to companies. And we have a drop in credit activity of 6.9 billion kuna in a year and a parallel increase in liquidity doubled. It's an inverse situation. Nothing can develop in Croatia on such a sick paradigm. When we talk about the structure of the loan, one important part of the non-payment of the loan is growing, we have 47 billion kunas of non-refundable or partly non-refundable loans. But what you're going to do when CNB's supervisory approval of business banks is that only 2 billion loans are granted to companies that don't have any employees. Imagine getting 2 billion kunas and not having any employees? What's in it for you? We do, and I don't believe in data anymore. See, the net interest revenues in the 2012 report are 21 billion and 686 million kuna, and the same net interest revenues from 2012 are lower by 250 million kuna in the next report. How can it be in two different reports for the same year different data? And so for the net interest cost and therefore net interest revenues are higher by 157 billion kuna from 2012. But in the 2012 and 2013 report, they did not They are not the same data for 2012. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3869	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3870	Here's Dr. Maric, you've listed a whole series of concrete indicators that talk about the deformation of the monetary-credit mechanism in Croatia which, otherwise, has never been questioned in all these years, has not been questioned. He was considered a given value, he considered himself to be what he must be. He is neither imaginary nor can be an active support for the Croatian economy. If gentlemen were to be represented here, if I had the power of speech to tell you the importance of what we're discussing, I think everyone from here would get together and go to the People's Bank and spend all day and day discussing how to change it. I don't have that ability, but at least I'd be glad to encourage and finally throw away this tool, this thrown lever that no one has ever seen us use. So far, in public, every complaint has been characterized in the media, depicted by rediculism, indiscriminateness, conservativeism, and we see that the Croatian economy is failing. These anomalies that you mentioned earlier are really staying. Unfortunately, the report is not objective. It's not in it, it's only in colorful colors that it's all good, so it seems to me when I read it, that I've strayed into this country, I just don't know what it's about. We must finally catch up with both left and right and middle on these issues. It's in everyone's interest and it's an important question, and that's why I'm really glad that you've commented and asked this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3871	Thank you very much. The next replica will be the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3872	Mr Lovrinović, in your debate, you touched on one topic, which is that the role of the CNB must also be seen in the recovery of the economy and economic situation in Croatia. And you said that the recovery of the economy in 2015 was mostly due to the credit of the former government and I agree with you. The CNB has made a minimal or almost no contribution here, but rather the opposite. When we look at these loans that Mr. Maric has apostrophe of minimal efforts, or almost no effort has been made to pump up the fresh capital of the CNB for our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Croatia like the Central European Bank, and it is now announced. I don't know why, it's good to open up a certain potential for small and medium-sized enterprises, but we needed it a year, two, three, four days ago to have a higher capacity. Instead, we, as executive authority, had to subsidise interest from the budget, we were pumping money from the budget into the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and had a certain cost that could take over the CNB and which should have taken over the CNB, but unfortunately it did not. There was safety, I would say only one sector in Croatia, the banking sector, and we saw this in particular at the end of 2015 when the government bravely decided to adopt the law to convert loans into kunas in spite of the non-refoulement and pressures of the CNB in a way that part of the cost was taken over by the Croatian banks. And that's what's worrying. The CNB in Croatia cannot protect the interests of one sector, the banking sector and not take care of the economy and Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3873	Thank you. The honourable representative Ivo Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3874	Mr. Maras, I thank you for the question and for this comment that works so encouragingly. I can agree with one part of your exposure, the finding that by one downsizing in the field of income relief, you have influenced an increase in private consumption, and thus generated a certain growth in GDP. However, I'm sorry in the case of the franc you also made certain changes. However, I am personally sorry that you are not at it much more, you have recognised the meaning of the orientation of the core CNB that it is practically, in its focus only, that the banks and not the economy sector are primary and the population. Well, in that context, we really need to make some serious changes so this doesn't happen. When you mention HBOR is the fact that it is financed from, apart from abroad and transfers from the state budget. Where the funds come from in that state budget, it costs something. Right? If you get a capital of 2.3% I don't know what interest rates are now, then HBOR can't approve at the same interest rate further, so small and medium-sized enterprises. You see that function of the Central Bank must be expressed even though the HBOR is not a formal bank, he is one I have said a political-transfer institution or fund that has yet to determine whether it is a bank or so. However, there are known mechanisms to transfer part of the money from the CNB at an interest rate of 0.1% because all of the central banks you are talking about on a acceptable mechanism, which will not violate the rules of the European System of Central Banks and of the ECB but is not done. And that's why I'm saying it's good that this debate is open.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3875	Thank you. And the final debate is the esteemed representative of Millivoj Speke, pardon, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3876	I trust my colleague Lovrinović that in your presentation you would touch this part, but one very interesting question is that of our public who is certainly following this, and it is about this international reserve and what would be said to be riding on foreign reserves. As you explain this, and probably later the governor will say in his final presentation, you explain that Croatia currently has international reserves for as much as 9 months of monitoring imports while, for example, one Czech Republic or Slovenia has 5 months, Baltic countries 2 to 3 months, and the most developed European countries even less, so 2 to 3 months. Which means that at the moment Croatia may have half the funds from these international reserves. So it's about 5.6 billion euros that could and should be used in the development of the economy. So, in your opinion, the result of this non-engagement and non-intervention of the CNB in this respect is due to the non-invention of the executive authority or to the lack of economic development policy or is it the non-invention and inability or the absence of a wish by the CNB? I think you would have touched that in your presentation, but that is one very interesting question because it is obvious that something is happening in Croatia that is not happening in other European countries, especially in those who have a growth rate of 3, 4, 5 or 6%.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3877	The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3878	Mr. Spica, thank you for this interesting question. As the questions go, we see that everyone deserves attention, that it's really important. You're actually asking what level of foreign reserve is optimal, why does Croatia have a 9-month coverage, the second one in 5? There are several rules in the theory of the optimity of foreign reserves, obviously the CNB wants to stick to that... rules that we have foreign reserves enough to cover the short-term debt for up to a year in full. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why are other central banks running a different policy? I don't know, it'll probably the governor he has more contact with them. But it is just another piece of evidence that it is not a proper monetary policy that we have, although the IMF warns that these foreign reserves are not enough and I must be honest with you and then why not press Slovenia for what you say to the Czech Republic or some others, although Slovenia has now become more in charge of abroad than Croatia. So there is room for certain improvements in this area too. And that means again it is an additional incentive to join monetary reform. And the word reform I hope you all know about reform when you're taking reform. When things can't work anymore, when we see that we have more problems then we say reform. So your question is encouraging. And the other thing, I think it would also be interesting to see, about that very little is known, of course we can't hear the data where the CNB foreign reserve is investing, but what are the contributions to other central banks, etc. That would be interesting to hear, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3879	Thank you very much. Now we move on to the next club of representatives and this is the Club of Representatives of the SDP and on behalf of the club will speak to the distinguished representative Ivo Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3880	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Governor, Vice Governor, colleagues and colleagues. It would be better if we had discussed this matter a little earlier, so we're discussing the 2014 Report and now it's 2016. But well, some things unfortunately, I'll still say unfortunately, are current today. And what was in 2014 is unfortunately still present today. And even though we're discussing a year and a half later, some things are still up-to-date. Of course we discussed it a year ago, we would have been mostly discussing the Swiss franc and the whole problem, and what the CNB did, which it couldn't, which it could, etc. Today, less will likely be discussed because we have solved this problem. But if there's time, of course, I'll say a few words about it. Every time it comes to the CNB, not only monetary policy is discussed, which would be natural and normal, but also a debate on the overall economic policy, the overall economic situation. So we see from the CNB's report that the largest part of 300 and some pages mostly refer to it. However, I will try mainly to talk about what is really ingenuity and what the CNB should do, and less talk about the overall economic situation only as much as necessary for this debate I will talk about it so much. counterpart Lovrinovic spoke about the CNB's goal. Therefore, Article 3 clearly states that the aim of the CNB is to maintain price stability. Now if we look at that in 2014 we had a slight deflation, somewhere 0.2% of the question is whether these prices are stable, did CNB play that role in price stability? The question is, what is the desired state, is it a small deflation, is it low inflation? I would agree that safe and low inflation in these conditions would certainly be better than deflation. In that sense, the question now is whether the CNB has played its part there, has it fulfilled this article of the law in terms of maintaining price stability? You see, what's more important is that this deflation was more affected by not its monetary policy measures than simply all of this came from outside, due to lower prices primarily of oil, food, etc. So it's something that happened to us, not what was planned or what was wanted. So let's take a look at it, except for that part, so what's left of the CNB's assignments. It states Article 4 that the CNB is independent and independent within the framework of the Constitution and the law as a whole of the transactions under its jurisdiction. This alone and independent is often misinterpreted. That she's independent, independent in her responsibilities, but that doesn't mean she's independent and independent and that she can do whatever she wants and that no one can object to her and that that's her ingenuity, that's where no one gets involved. So independence and responsibility assumes, independence and independence implies and responsibility for the situation and then, of course, even though the situation is good then it is good, if it is not well to bear responsibility. Now that these are, then, what are the jurisdiction. I will not, of course, list everything from the implementation of monetary foreign policy, etc., international reserves. What I'm underlining is that I'd say super audit and supervision of banks or credit institutions. I will always talk in discussions about banks than about credit institutions to make it easier to speak and mostly banks are a large part of these credit institutions... So, of course, also contributing to the stability of the financial system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now as for exchange rates and currency stability, international reserves, I think it's a state satisfactory and okay, about, of course around the course is always, it's always the current question whether the course is good, it's not good etc.. Two days ago, we were at a meeting of Croatian exporters where a question of real exchange rate was raised again. Exporters, of course, advocate a different course that would contribute to them. I don't want to open this topic today, but in any case, I don't think this should be discussed this abruptly or over the knee because what fits that part of the export, so the goods export doesn't fit another part of the export, it's tourism because it's certain that the one who exports the goods to suit him that the kuna is weaker but tourism certainly doesn't fit. So it's a long and serious topic to talk about now, but in any case, Kuna had a relatively stable course. So at the beginning of the year 7.63, at the end of 7.66, it's relatively stable. According to the dollar, it was a different story, not because of the kuna, but because of the simple attitude of the euro to the dollar and the overall state of relations, if you want the European economy versus the American, its poorer position of incompetence, etc. However, does the CNB have certain responsibilities for the overall economic situation? I'm sure he has through his monetary policy. From this report that's in front of us of 300 pages we see here so the CNB is often there, there being seen as some kind of observer on the side. So he's doing an analysis as an institute which is fine, that we understand each other I'm not against analysis but as an observer on the side. But where's the monetary policy? Could monetary policy have affected it so much better or worse? Now we see if I'm well informed that the CNB will release about 4 billion kunas in the financial bloodstream. We'll all agree, at least I think it's a good measure but if it's a good measure, it's my question and why the good measure the CNB did not do in 2013, '14. The one he was discussing, '15.? If she was bad then, why is it good today and vice versa? So that's my question, so if it's a good measure and I think it's, why is that good measure not applicable in '13, '14? And '15. So probably the economic situation would be better today? If it makes it now it would be better why isn't it done then? The CNB, of course, has great powers and powers over the work of credit institutions of banks, from their supervision, from taking away consent to work, gives consent to the election of a member of the administration. No member of the administration can be chosen not to give his consent, etc. Now, what's the situation in the banking sector? Is everything okay here? Is there anything that could have been done, that's another question. As the banks did, what the CNB was doing in that sense, that's another question. And I must say that the CNB is the Croatian National Bank and it should first of all be in the interest of Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy and not be in the interest of banks, Croatians who are only nominal Croatians and are true in the ownership sense of the party, so if I am not mistaken and I have read 60% of shareholders, total shareholders, total ownership of Croatian banks is Austrian, 20% Italian etc. Of course it's in the interest of banks to work in the interests of their shareholders, it's normal and their goal is to maximise their profits, to have their profits, and it's all normal and against it I have nothing. But there should be an equal or partner relationship to the economy and to the citizens. One can't be too good and the other can't be too bad. We've had a situation years from, I've watched the data from 2010 to 2014 that banks profited from each year somewhere at 4.5 billion. In doing so, the economy was mired in problems, citizens even more. So one was too good, one was too bad. If you don't have a partner relationship then in the short term it can be good for whoever's stronger, for whoever's got the money but not in the long run. Because you're going to put them in such a situation and the economy and the citizens that they won't be able to withstand the heavy yoke they're being imposed on, and then it's going to become a problem for the banks. I think we're about somewhere close to it right now. So there was no partner relationship, this relationship was maternal and also underprivileged to the economy and Croatian citizens, and often also exploitable in this regard. I even, I often tell you that there is one in action a little, I would say financial neocolonalism. I'll try to explain what I mean by that. So I wouldn't mind, of course, the bank, if I keep saying they have to work with profits, they have to make money. And it's logical that if there's an instruction if, therefore, it's due 4% to loan in 6%, it's to me, it's normal. But if it's normal when you're in debt at 1% and you give credit in 6%, 7% or 8%, that's not normal. And so there it is, and we have more in action than this first. However, we see from the report what the average rates of housing credits, consumer credits, etc. were, we do not see what the sources of banks were but we see the following. That in 2014 total loans amounted to 280 billion. Mostly these loans are with foreign exchange clauses and citizens and economies. A little less than in 2013 for 7 billion. And they're mostly 265 billion domestic sources, so they're not from outside. Not that it was expensive to be out there, so then it had to cost money to our citizens in the economy. The domestic savings were somewhere around 170, 176 billion, the deposits of the economy another 45 if I'm wrong. So it's huge money. We don't know since she was then, so we don't know how much those domestic sources cost, but we know today, for example. If you have 50,000 euros, you go to any bank and you get interest below one percent. And if you're asking for the same 50,000 euros for the most favourable word when it's a housing loan, that's about a little less than 5% interest. So the 4% difference. For other loans, that interest is much higher. Is that difference normal? In my opinion, it is not, and it is not, and it is a kind of, therefore, extra profit, the exploitation of Croatian citizens and the economy, because it is not elsewhere. So I said 80% of capital is mostly Austrian and Italian. I ask you, do these Austrian and Italian banks have such a difference in interest in their countries? They don't, they certainly don't. What are Croatian citizens guilty and the economy that it is so will be said, so you know Croatia is a risky country, rating is bad, insecure placements etc. And it can be discussed by the entire institutes to justify such a situation. But one thing's for sure. As long as we're treated like this, we'll be risky, poor and paid badly. Because as long as you have to, as long as you have interest as a citizen twice or three times as big as an Austrian, German, Italian, and the rest of you will be in a more unfavourable position. As long as our economy has to have interest three times larger than it has German, Austrian, Italian companies with which it is on a single European market that must be competitive and has capital more expensive three times. That's gonna be tough. And then, of course, you work for the banks. Citizens all of their surpluses if they even have it to pay off their loans, and for God's sakes, the economy. Many companies that are not profitable today would be profitable if they had a lot, if they had more favourable capital sources, if they were paying less interest on loans. I'm sure it would be that way. You know, I always remember a story my grandfather used to tell me when he was relatively poor, so in the spring when there's no more grain, when there's nothing left to eat, then he goes to the landlord to be in charge of septuring the grain. And you can always get the master's grains, but in the fall you have to get two back. And of course, when the fall comes, when you pick up your clothes, when you have to return what you took for September two, you have to go back half again and again in the spring, you don't have to do it all the time. We are about in this situation and our economy and our citizens. So we owe ourselves too much and everything we do, we do for whoever we're in charge of. So, it's normal, what do you do, you take 100 units of credit, you get 200 back. Of course not the same year, but over the years. But if we were to return 130 or 150, it would be much, much easier. My time is running out. I'm afraid I won't make it, but I just want to say one more thing. Here in the CNB report on 300 and some pages you saw the analysis of everything and everyone that's good, but at least the CNB talked about itself and how it works. There have been frequent public complaints about salaries in the CNB, staff costs, material costs, etc. Unfortunately, I can't say anything about it because there's nothing about it in this report. So why does it appear in public, so speculation about how it works? Why is there no clear data, why isn't it transparent? It is a second question, but I would ask that in the following reports it be, so if it is not true that we are denying it, if it is true that the CNB is living on a high foot far better than it is living in other parts of the public administration, and the total living of Croatian citizens and the economy is not good. But that's the impression, that's what they're talking about. Unfortunately, we don't see it from the report. So we don't see how it's been spent, how much it's been spent, if that surplus is 2.7 billion that can be, and we can't really see that. So, my time is running out. I'm just gonna say one more thing in the end. In Article 21, the CNB can set the lowest point in transport to which the account of cash and non-cash payments is rounded. I haven't seen a lip in a long time, and I haven't seen a dime or five lips return to cash traffic, so I'd see that, so to do a serious analysis of what's going on with our lips. Is the greater cost of printing them, or of making that money than it has its effects on the market, so I think we should analyse it and see if we need to coordinate it, to be more rational in that sense and that what, therefore, does not exist, if no one returns the lip, 10 lip or 30 lip, and then we round it up to other amounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3881	Thank you. Your debate caused two replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3882	Your Honor, I would refer to these statements not only from Mr Jelusic but also this morning. And this economic meta language because I am a layman I don't quite understand, and I think Croatia has a secret weapon against other countries if there is a conflict somewhere. We have an economist more here per square metre than any country. I'd just send those two as business advisors to other countries, I think they'd ruin the economy in a week as it seems to me. Here's what I'm wondering is how a banking system can work if we don't have standard norms and legal frameworks in business, in the judiciary. He has to work in a vacuum. What's an ordinary man interested in? He is interested in forecasts, inflation as will be by the end of the year, credit rating Croatia, increase of unpaid loans. How can a sustainable economy have one man employed, one retired? Is that unsustainable? Is there a Greek scenario waiting for us? We need real forecasts because it was supposed to be done a long time ago. Secondly, a country where the signed contracts of the institution are not respected is not a country, is not a legal state. Without legal certainty, no one will invest here. And in the end, I'd say without strong structural reforms, we'd be in a total vacuum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3883	Thank you. The honourable representative Ivo Jelusic will respond. If he can answer, it wasn't very direct.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3884	Thank you. I picked up the replica as soon as someone picked up, as soon as it started with the replica, I immediately picked up the plate to respond to the replica, but I have nothing to say. I'm giving up my answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3885	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3886	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You said that banks should work for citizens and the economy. It is a fact, however, they do not work as in their own countries because they are mostly all owned by, neither intention nor work. They draw money from the people and the economy through interest, and every layman can see that, because I'm also a layman in this, unprofessional and incompetent and let alone people who are professional and competent can't see it. That in us interest is 10% example I'm talking about the same bank that owns France is 10%. Well, there shouldn't be a mathematician here. We're not gonna talk about Frank. We're not gonna talk about letting the savings go. Croatia does not have a national bank. I'll tell you now, but later I'll talk about it a little bit more, and Croatia has no gram of gold. What referendum has given us the right to sell Croatian gold, 15 tonnes, 13.9? Has anyone asked citizens to be in charge of billions of governments like this? Did anyone get any legitimacy, any government, any left, right, or now this one in so many amounts? To be prepared this way... Regardless of which side they were and who was in power that such monetary policy and government borrowing would lead Croatia to the edge and all in the interest of foreign banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we need to be clear, I think there are professional and competent people and things need to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3887	Thank you. The honourable representative Ivo Jelusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3888	My colleague Bulj, you've mostly agreed with what I've been saying and should, of course, repeat and say it. I agree that Croatian banks, the banking system does not work in the interest of the development of the Croatian economy and the improvement of Croatian citizens. That's my thesis I kept talking about. But you know what the worst part is? Which is why a great economic mind in the CNB and elsewhere got involved in these vast institutes to prove that it's normal. You know the one who has the money he's capable of paying. So you have even people who are well paid by certain institutions, who have expressed their opinions that do not later stand. Well, at the end of the day, we have, I've recently had a situation in my practice, so everything can be bought, you know. The audit agencies are giving their opinion on a single bank, just recently I watched, positively, that after a few months the bank would fail. So, they charged their audit report, then you chase them and chase them. What am I saying? Of course things should be considered the following way, so banks are necessary, they have to work, they have to work with profit only the question of how much profit. So if mostly banks are in debt from domestic savings, they are mostly sources of domestic savings that are now at 1% interest, why interest on a citizen of 5, 8 or 9%? It's too big a profit. Because the same banks, their mothers in other countries, don't have that. They don't have that high interest. Of course we're high-risk country. Of course, there are a lot of risky placements in our country, but these risky discounts will be more and more if you give unfavourable loans because you'll make a good businessman a bad one if you give him a high interest loan and something that didn't seem risky at first will become risky after the risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3889	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to the next club representative, and that's the HNS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Anka Dark Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3890	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear governor, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have a report from the CNB for 2014. When you have a 2014 report, you often ask yourself, and it's about the first quarter of 2016 at the end, why debate now? However, it is always good to discuss some things with a time distance because then you can get a different and more complete picture. This report is written well, we have a series of numbers, we have a series of charts. However, when you have such a report and it reflects on a series of topics in the life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is always good to ask, see what these conclusions are, which should be concluded in which direction and direction to go further. So the number never lies. The number is what it is. However, the conclusions we draw from that figure and the path we need to go further are the ways we need to see what we do next. Of course, in this report we also have economic issues, we have employment topics, we also have unemployment issues. Now that we see the economy in 2014 was the last year we were, so that was the sixth year of recession. Likewise, in the opening part, you have this one environment where Croatia was and then we refer to the overseas countries, but we refer to what happened in the EU and we observe what happened, we find what is in Croatia but we do not talk about what should be further. However, what we need to talk about and what we need to see when it comes to the economy is one finding on the subject of a major decline in the construction sector compared to everything else. The same is the sector of agriculture and forestry. But when you look at the continuity of 2008-2014 then you see that there was actually a huge fall in construction in 2011, and this was a continuous fall, so that line goes down continuously. You see, in terms of the economy, there was a slight shift in the processing industry. And from that, it should draw certain conclusions. The conclusion here is, or rather, better stated when it comes to construction that this fall is due to a lack of public investment and due to a small lack of private investment in construction. There's one convenient data that's related to traffic that says it's in 2014. 10% less traffic to railways, that a little less traffic was in maritime traffic but then also says that from, related to some other modes of traffic, the increase that was, was actually related to tourism. And what would be interesting now in a report like this that's on 300 pages to have? We would find interesting conclusions, interesting to see if we further invest when it comes to the rail transport economy, in which we invest, why the decline was, which is the result of this fall. For the simple reason that monetary policy is this policy that can have a big key in the development of the economy. Equally when it comes to construction, it's a topic that's absolutely close to me, why it keeps falling, what do we have to do? What do we have to do at the state level? What do we have to do with the loans? What to do, because we all know very well some findings, which is that construction and the theme of construction is someone who first feels the exit from recession but the first sense of recession, the first one falls when the recession is, it takes long to run but when it starts, it needs to be run further. And that would be good in this report, as well in some conclusions, in some ideas to see what to do in terms of monetary policy to make that something. We know equally well that in a man's life there are, later when two things go on important. The important thing is that he has a secure job and it's important that he has a roof over his head. When it comes to a roof over a head, a country is an extremely important housing policy. What does housing policy mean, what does housing mean? And I'd like to say a few sentences about one topic, the theme of housing cooperatives. I mean, excuse the housing savings. And now it's very interesting this part of the report when it comes to housing savings, and we need to know that in 2014, the incentives that caused a lot of storms in this climate have been lifted. And when it comes to housing savings, we have five. Of those five, there are 4 in foreign ownership and one in our home ownership. Their share of everything is below 2% in financial terms, so their share of credit assets is very low below 2%. But what happened in 2014? In 2014, all five housing savings increased their profits. And now that you've analyzed a little bit why, they've still got that incentive from 2013. But what made it happen? It happened because the loans they gave were in category A and they increased their investment activities. So they'll see well and compare what happened in 2015. However, some activities were positive and should be pointed out. Equally this report has one page, I always look at every report that page and that's the public of work. The public of work is extremely important. It is extremely important that every citizen who cares about it can see for any institution what he does, how he does, and that is where the Croatian National Bank was evaluated through that one page of text as someone who has done good, published articles well, did so well. However, it would be good to see some other indicators that my speakers, or colleagues, have already pointed to. And there is that final part that is extremely important for Croatia, which is that international co-operation. In this final part, the international regulations and laws that we, in part, have to accept or install in our legislation but it is important here, and I stress once again it is important that Croatia participates from the very beginning in the adoption of such rules and that some discussions on Croatia's position against other countries of the European Union would be significantly different. And what happened is next. So on 1 July 2013, Croatia enters the European Union immediately in early 2014. The European Union notes that it will launch and initiate excessive deficit procedures for Croatia because the estimates were that the budget deficit will exceed the benchmarks over the next 2 years. that Croatia is 3 years 2014 in 2015 and 2016 in which we are now. And what he's finding, he's finding out next. That what we all know is necessary, priority areas that are important for economic policy, which is fiscal consolidation, the continuation of structural reforms and the co-ordinated promotion of investment. Co-ordinated investment promotion should be and there is a colleague, Lovrinovic, when he spoke at the inauguration, spoke about legislative, executive and court and monetary, I will not tell the authorities but politics. So coordinated investment promotion can only be if it co-ordinates both legislative and executive and judicial, here we see topics that are but of course monetary policy. We all think in different ways. I think in numbers and think in pictures. So let me just share one picture with you. I see Croatia as a beautiful island that has great conditions and has watched for years as ferryloads of tourists and others pass by the island. In 2014, the ferry was relatively close, in 2015 it agreed and the role is for all of us regardless of whether we are in the legislative authority in which we are here and the executive who is the government, in the courts and in the monetary where the Croatian National Bank is to enable 2016 and in the coming years that these tourists are landing and that we will benefit from all this because then through this one report when we show that there is growth, then we will experience this growth and feel it. Therefore, monetary policy is extremely important. The 2014 report really has a series, a series of data, but what's important from that data is to learn a lesson, to know what the guidelines are, to know what ideas and these ideas go on and really to what's still good to know. In 2011, 24 EU countries were observed. It was 16 plus Croatia in 2014. At the end of 2014 there were 11 remaining in 2015. The figure will decrease, and it would be good if it were not Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3891	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3892	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Mrak-Taritash you mentioned in your report and work, in your discussion and the work of housing savings that also handles the Croatian National Bank Report. If the former government was wandering into something, then it's a relationship to the functioning of housing savings and the lending of housing savings. Three times in office, we changed the House Savings and Residential Loans Act that provide housing savings. First in 2012, first the government proposed, and then this Parliament adopted a 15% reduction to 10%, so for 750 kuna subsidies or incentives to the state to 500. Then in 2013, just at the time that precedes this reporting period of the Croatian National Bank, we abolished it, you said it yourself, and then last year, so we returned not for a full year but no longer established a fixed rate but is a variable rate that depends on several factors that define housing savings. And this approach certainly affected the reduced number of loans financed by housing savings and certainly that the reduction in the number of housing loans financed from residential savings also affected the decline of construction activities, especially in the private area where it allowed people to buy apartments by the most favourable loans in independent Croatia so far, and these are just loans from housing savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3893	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3894	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Bačić, so you and I both know what the theme of construction is and what the theme of housing is. It is very interesting that out of the 5 housing savings in 2013, only one business with profit and all five in 2014. So, after all this has been done all of a sudden, these housing savings have won. And what I said in the debate should draw conclusions from this and see which direction both laws and monetary policy should go in. Which was the reason why in 2014, so we cancel as you said certain loans, that is, the way it was defined. And in 2014 they suddenly have a profit, because they have turned to something else, decided to lend loans under different conditions, to reduce the part that belongs to them. Therefore, it is the theme of a monetary policy to draw conclusions from what has happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3895	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be that of HDZ and on behalf of it will be spoken by distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3896	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Governor, with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. There is a document before us, which was sent to the Croatian Parliament on 29.5.2014, in 2015, pardon. And now that you look at what happened today, and this document tells us about something that happened a year ago and a few more days ago, then this story fits. However, what my colleague Lovrinovic said and I will agree. The document we're going to discuss for 2015 won't be much different from this. Why? Because certain movements both monetary and economic and macroeconomic and fiscal in Croatia are so similar that they will not differ much, so I would start my debate on behalf of the club from the European Commission's point of view of the Report on Croatia and correcting macroeconomic imbalances. And when you reflect these six points on this report in 2014 and we will also review it on the 2015 report, then I think that first of all we here have to do if we want to change something that we want to change legislatively and whether it is in accordance with our agreement with the EU we can or can't do. I think it's a key issue for general functioning in the future. Because look, you change everything you want to change by changing the law, no different. We can want it one way or another, and at the moment when we decided to be a member of the EU, then that law goes to Brussels and we get the green light or we don't get it. So, what is the European Commission's first grudge -- a high public debt that continues to grow, is a significant burden on the economy and is a source of vulnerability. The debt of the general government was more than doubled between 2008 and 2014. So 38.9% increased to 85.1%. And when you look at Croatia's score from any aspect of economics, then you will see that this is the area that is said to be the most vulnerable in Croatia. We could talk about this the same way when the 2013 and 2014 and 2015 reports were held. What is the share here of monetary policies and whether there is one we can also talk about. Private sector debt is high and does not decrease, a large amount of bad credit remains a challenge for the financial sector. So far, Croatia has recorded a rather limited deleveraging, and the level of private debt remains high. This is particularly true for the corporate sector in which the debt amounted to around 80% in 2014 while household debt was around 40%. In addition, the ability of the banking sector to contribute to recovery could be limited due to the impact of the regulations adopted in September 2015 allowing for the conversion of the Swiss franc loans to the euro of households, as this implies a loss to banks. And that's what I honestly say when we're talking about this agenda point today, I think Mr. Governor should have said that. No matter what it is, it is not the subject of 2014. I sincerely hope that you will say something about this in your closing statement and that you will say the dangers that the state budget may be. So it's simply a fact that you, as governor of a central bank, must say in this House of Highs in every public appearance regardless of the area you're talking about. It's something that just can't be kept quiet. However, the high level of euroisation in the economy in terms of assets and liabilities, together with a tightly managed fluctuating rate of domestic currency towards the euro, mitigates the risk. So much for the topic we are discussing these days about when the euro could become a Croatian currency and whether Croatia needs it or not. So that's the topic to talk about in this High House. And why am I reading all this? Because that's what we're going to discuss when we talk about 2015. A significant external debt is an additional limit for the economy, the net external liabilities are almost 80%. In addition, almost one third of the external debt constitutes the debt of the general government, indicating the risk of sustainability. The unemployment rate remains very high especially for young people and unqualified workers. It also says that ineffective wage fixing in the public sector continues to make it difficult to control the state's cost of pay and can make pay flexibility impossible. So is this the topic we're going to discuss next year when we are, in fact, this year when we discuss the 2015 Report? It is. Does this topic have a significant impact on all economic and economic developments in Croatia? There is. The high corporate sector debt and a complicated business environment hamper private investment, but public investment is expected to grow by improving the absorption of European structural investment funds. Both public and private investment experienced a sharp decline during the crisis. Investments started to recover in 2015 but obstacles to private investment still exist mainly in the form of administrative obstacles. Limited access to finance specifically for small and medium-sized enterprises, high interest and inherited over-indebted debt further limits the investment capacity of Croatian companies. And when we reflect this part of the governor's debate on this practical life, then we can discuss why the interest rates are as high in Croatia as they are, why the Croatian entrepreneur has an interest rate of 2 percentage points in the beginning than the entrepreneur in Slovenia or by 2.2 percentage points more than the entrepreneur in the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Poland or more than 3 percentage points in Germany. I think that's a crucial question that we need to talk about when we talk about the CNB report in this House of Commons. Why is the risk coefficient, which is the basic parameter for determining the interest rate height, in Croatia still between 2.75 and 3.25 percentage points? Or 275 weeks. 325 bass points? And that is a key parameter when we talk about the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, when we talk about interest rates. After all, it is also a key parameter when we talk about the rate of interest at which the state is in debt. And the state can exclusively finance its deficit from borrowing or sale of assets. There's no third mechanism. So these are the topics we need to talk about here. About whether something should be like this or whether it should be like that, we're just not gonna change anything. The weak and fragmented public administration makes it difficult to deliver services that make companies suffer and the ineffectiveness of state-owned enterprises slows the adjustment process. The decentralisation of local functions at the beginning of the 21st century has exceeded their fiscal capacity and has resulted in strong relying on central transfers from the central state. It clearly states that we did not decentralize the state in principle, but that we had decentralised functions, rather than decentralised money, in a way that made the units of local self-government dependent on the state. Does that have anything to do with the CNB report? And now some subject. So, like I said, we should talk about Swiss here, so we should talk about Austrian savings loans. I've been talking about it not once in the last three years in this High House, and it's just a matter of telling the truth that's what it is. Have certain institutions in the Republic of Croatia made any move that should have been taken? I don't think so. So, the Croatian state there in 2001, 2002, made it possible for Croatian citizens and Croatian businesses to be in debt abroad but on a clear condition that the transfer of money must be through the central bank. If the transfer of money is not through the central bank, then for it practically no one in Croatia even knows until the moment someone starts pushing them into the legal money market and then the question of where does that money come from normally have to be asked? However, whether the central bank should have made this firmer statement, whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia should have passed a law or regulation, however you wish, on the ban on selling the property that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia mortgaged on these loans, that is also the question. Therefore, the Central Bank cannot make a decision on this, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia can make it. That's why I'm saying that when I talk about this, then we have to make a connection. When we talk about inflation and deflation, I can't seem to forget one scene, and it was 12 months in 2008 when the price of barrels of oil from about $80 jumped to $140. In Croatia, all prices went wild, everyone talked and had reasons and had no reason to raise prices due to the rise in energy prices and then there was a drastic drop in energy prices at 2nd, 3rd month, but many prices did not simply drop then. Many jumped on the train of that price hike even though they had no reason to. And many prices are unfortunately left in Croatia as they are. However, we are here saying that prices of energy are the reason for and increased consumption of Croatian citizens because they have more money left. But there is one question that we are also talking about in this High House, which is when we talk about the price of energy because it's not just oil and oil products. A far important energy source for Croatian citizens and households is the price of electricity and gas prices. And we all forget here that 3 years ago someone raised the price of electricity by 25%, except that it will be an initial capsule to a strong commercial company owned by the state for large investments, but in the past 3 years, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been taken more than 3 billion kuna and no investment has occurred. Same story happened with the gas. Therefore, if we say that on the one hand we have allowed increased consumption due to a reduction in energy prices and on the other hand we have also irrevocably taken Croatian citizens over the past 5 years as regards electricity and gas almost 5 billion kuna. And I think, Mr. Governor, if he's here, it's about the price of energy that if we look at it with both macroeconomic and economic positions then we have to look at this part of it. Because if certain prices went up unjustly and the reason why they were raised did not happen and these are HEP investments, then we should take it because then we can only view it as another parafiscal imposition against Croatian citizens. 'Cause if someone's charging you with a state-licensed price higher than 30%, what's a parafiscal charge? Nothing else. The same devil as if you cut off some kind of tax and took 100 and some more kunas from his pocket a month and only the money ended instead of the state budget ended up with a public firm. And let me finish. In this debate today, which will be on this report and on the information on economic developments, we are going to come to a common conclusion that we want from the CNB and, on the basis of that, to change the law. That's the first thing. The second thing, to be honest, I still do not remember being a legal expert, but I remember the negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union from the amendment of the Law on the Croatian National Bank to me is still unclear whether we adopt this report or take it into consideration. Because if I'm not mistaken in 2013 we took note. So I'm not a legal expert, so I'm asking on behalf of the club legal questions to legal professionals, so let them answer that. And in the end, I don't think this is a topic for collecting cheap political points. We can be happy so the banking sector in the Republic of Croatia remains stable regardless of what we are talking about or not. You saw only two small banks that fell out of the state budget, so DAB went over 800 million kunas to resuscitate those banks. Many companies and many citizens who had funds in those banks have lost those funds. If we don't agree on how and what the CNB is doing, we change the law, and then we're asking whether someone did something or didn't do it. But I repeat, sometime next year at the same time, we will be welcomed by a report for Croatia on preventing and correcting macroeconomic balances. Then we will have a year that we are in power and then we will not be able to accuse anyone else but we can only talk about whether or not we have implemented certain reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3897	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3898	Your Honor. Dear fellow Shuker, I have listened well to you and all the other people who have been exposed but I would like to say, for many years in this House, there should have been a red light and a CNB question and a question of behavior and a question of these minuses that this country has been constantly showing. Deflation was 02, 04 and -08, GDP fell 13%, and that's been going on for many years. It's said that the CNB is an independent, independent institution, so I'm asking who it suits? How do you solve this problem to be responsible? Looking at what's going on among the citizens, the companies that have been sucked out... In the middle of consciousness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm asking another question about who's responsible for the Swiss francs, what's the role of the CNB? You've been Minister of Finance, have you warned anything in the past few years about this subject and this work of the People's Bank? She hasn't worked since yesterday, she's been working 25 years in the Croatian state and as much as you've warned about all this you're seeing here today, we've come to a part of our lives where our citizens, our businesses are practically in a knockdown and we're all together. And HNB's own salary is so high and then we see from the report so many absurdities. So I'm asking this one, we're all here together because our citizens are looking at us, they've chosen what to do to make this all better, more transparent, and that this country is finally going into some sort of order. From what I've seen, it's a better situation. Apparently. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Excuse me. I guess a little bit of Frank's going around, so everything's changed a little bit, and then interest. And I believe it could have been a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3899	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3900	My colleague Misic, what I said the other day, we are now in power together and I hope that together we will pass the law to remove these imbalances. But I also warned that when the legislation is amended, we must be aware at the time that we have signed the accession agreement and all those documents for EU entry, that we are given some consent. I'd like to ask my colleagues to do a little. We've made certain commitments, so these are facts we can't escape from. And that's what I said in my debate. The second thing about Swiss francs for this speaker was in 2005 I said everything that is extremely high and extremely low hides potential danger. No one in Croatia knew anywhere at that time what the danger was, but the real danger of what happened last year was that you and I and all the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia from the state budget would pay 8 billion kuna. It's a real fact. It's a real fact, no matter how we talk anyway. You understand? That's, we're part of some world. You were here talking about deflation. Deflation has a clear economic definition, whether it's just a change of some prices, not other parameters that's deflation it's a question. That's the question. But I'm saying we can do anything about it through the law change, and I'm ready. Let's start a task force. We'll go to the Parliament, see if the Ministry of Finance can do it and suggest an amendment to the law. And the independence of the Central Bank, it was very large at times when we weren't, and everyone at the end of the proposal for the original law was that the Croatian National Bank submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament and such a law, the bill unfortunately did not pass in Brussels. So, not to be a government or some other CNB controller, but to be this High House. And now, if such a law cannot pass in Brussels, we cannot adopt it in this House, because we are getting out of one part of the market. The second thing, the interest rate doesn't depend on the CNB. The interest rate depends on those who determine our risk coefficient plus EURIBOR.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3901	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3902	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As an experienced and parliamentary representative and finance minister, you know that we are all expensive that in the 1990s when the Croatian state was created, that it was an interest means the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket and the Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder. What's left of this 25-year story, and what situation has all the governments put us in is now a question? The fact that there is no protected national interest either in monetary policy, whether in all Croatian governments, we have mostly taken advantage of the parochial servant's mentality here to join the EU. To enter the EU and release contracts and sign pre-contracts, and not exclusively service to condition us, so that today we do not have a strong national Croatian bank to fund our farmers. And you as a financier need to know that better than I do, the layman. And because of these policies and such policies, all governments are left or right, and a new political option has arisen. And yes, we are for cooperation and to solve this problem, but to solve this real problem. And one question. I can't figure out why, who gave the right, you were then the minister, who gave the right, did this people give the right to sell Croatian gold. It digs me, I ask a question all the time. I'm not a financial expert, but our barns are empty. In Dalmatia, it's said to be a barn warehouse. Not only was it mixed in Đakova or where, grain silos, but the Croatian people had to sell gold reserves. Can anyone answer that? If others don't sell, and now it's more expensive than in that time of 2004 somewhere around 600%. Who's going to be responsible for those losses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3903	Thank you. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3904	When you take things out of the context of time and space, you can say whatever you want. Unfortunately, some do as far as the Homeland War didn't take part in them, take things out of context of time and space, so we ended up where we ended up. And so on a series of these things that you've been talking about. Hence, it is well - known who made the decisions, under what conditions, and what was then happening. So I'm just saying this is a topic that doesn't tolerate politics. However, I say together we took responsibility for the Croatian state. In a year, we won't be able to charge anyone, but only people will ask us what we've done, just us. And my debate went in that context. However, these replicas go in a different context. Today, Croatia, unlike the time you are talking about instead of 4 and a half billion euros, has almost a little less than 14 billion foreign exchange reserves. Is that the potential of a single state? Is that the power of a state? Is the strength of a single state that no financial institution at the time of the biggest crisis when this crisis rocked the whole world has come into trouble. Well, it was a synchronised policy of monetary and fiscal government. Well, he can say whatever he wants, but I'd like to see you all get a call Friday afternoon and say I've got a bump on the banks. And that was the strongest bank in the Republic of Croatia at that time. By amending the Insurance Savings Act, that hedge has ceased. You saw what happened to the Rijeka Bank before the privatisation. Look what happened to the other banks. Let's not play with a sector that's very safe and very sensitive, let's not. That's the biggest problem. We can be dissatisfied, we can fight to make the risk smaller and make it a smaller interest rate, but let's not play with some grades that are very dangerous. Very, very dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3905	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3906	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Shuker, I have listened carefully to your presentations and I am pleased that you are in favour of amending the CNB Act, I fully support your position that such statements must be in line with that Statute of the European Central Bank and the central banks system because it is an international obligation, signed, etc. So, nothing beyond that. I also remember that while you were a minister, you expressed dissatisfaction with a non-partner's relationship with the CNB at the time and after you criticized it, and I am glad that you have also addressed it to the CNB today. What I would just like to comment briefly on in your presentation you have pointed out whether monetary policy and CNB are also responsible for this kind of public debt. I thought you said, and please, if you didn't correct me, that she wasn't responsible. And I'm saying it's more and more. How are you gentlemen? The fastest growing segment in public debt is interest. How? In 2008, the amount of interest was $ 4.5 billion. Last year, nearly 12 billion kuna. Is it clear who's taking interest in the state? Maybe it's too strong an expression, but with 5.5% not the HNB's, but the banking system. Mechanisms are known to work by bridging such credits to the central bank through banks but not to be 5% but 1%. So what's fastest growing in public debt is what we have to cut. I think you'll agree with me, Mr. Shucker. Another thesis, I will finish there, please, when we talk about the risk of interest rates in Croatia, all state in order it is a high risk and must be high interest rates. No, for foreign loans yes, for domestic loans but you're wrong because the CNB doesn't approve of credit banks, people figure it out already. On such loans, non-risk is minimal. Well, come on! Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3907	Thank you. Here will be answered by distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3908	I'm glad you said that while I was a minister very often in, the two of us end up working together for a long time, with something we agree on, something we disagree with, but it's good because it usually turns out to be a concrete idea. However, I believe that in this last issue of yours you are wrong. Why? Because, perhaps I am wrong, until Croatia began negotiations with the EU, the state had the opportunity to reroute over the year to borrow funding from the CNB at such and such an interest rate, but it had to return by 31.12. So that's how it was then. We wanted to continue that model, especially in crisis years. But we couldn't do it in madness either. There was a reduction in the minimum reserve paid by banks, thus increasing liquid assets, and if you remember the first one in 2009 according to that model A instead of interest rates 7%, 9% over HBOR was 4% and something else in order to eventually fall by 2.3 years would fall to some 2 and some other percentages. But what's the biggest problem, that's the material maybe, and that's what I've told the former management president who was supposed to come into this House, 95% of the loan seekers, unfortunately, are not creditworthy. So they got loans, they included HAMAG, the state, the CNB fired the reserve, the banks took a minimum interest of 0 total and some more percent, HBOR just charged manipulative costs. There's a fellow Lalovec he can say the last time these loans were shared by 2 and something else. The first tranche was 4 and something else. But I'm saying, look why they couldn't get the loans. So the key problem is the structure of the Croatian economy. That's why I did the six points. In order to change the structure and the possibility of the economy absorbing that it wants to invest, we need to create preconditions. And that's why I've read these six points. And I also agree, just one sentence, please, Mr. President, if we all want the CNB together to function differently, let's set up a working group and let's change the law, the law that Brussels is going to give us the green light. We just can't bring it any other way because we're going to say it out loud. That's not at all controversial. I think that's where the two of us get along and there's no need to go to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3909	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Joseph Lek.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3910	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Shucker's two sentences encouraged me to contact you in a replica. The first sentence is that Croatia is the most vulnerable, and we are part of the world. Second sentence, I'm asking the lawyers to show what we're going to do with the law. This first part reminded me of a statement I heard in HAZ last month. It's about like this: "There's no saving us but we won't fail." The debate today shows so much. Secondly, I want to tell you as a lawyer in the same legal framework, subjects behave differently. In this case, two areas of even the Eurozone and the EU operate on the same legal framework in the EU, and it is a single market. The market, though, is capital, goods and services and is not social problems. That is one problem that the EU is also looking into. And the third one is also one sentence that I like, which is what scientists who deal with the very banking system say is that the world travels knowledge, money and disease. Knowledge, money and sickness. I don't know what came to Croatia that way. ... Then thank you. You don't have to answer to anything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3911	Thank you. However, the honourable representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3912	Dear colleague, I'm glad that you, in principle, 3 have touched what I wanted to say in the debate on behalf of the club. So warn about certain things that happen to us and that will happen to us when we discuss the report in 2015 and 2016 if we are unable to change some things. So it's just facts. Second of all, why did I say I was asking legal experts here for this pay phone? Well, because this speaker was proposed by the Law on the Croatian National Bank, where it was said that the Croatian Parliament adopted the annual report of the CNB. We then received from Brussels that because of the independence of Croatia's path towards the European Union, independence of the Croatian National Bank cannot be stopped in such a way, and we had to move this report out. Finally, under your chairmanship, the adoption of the 2013 report was an understanding. I said let the lawyers answer whether it's like this or not. Why do we fight and convince someone who is and who is not a legal expert? I'm just saying that in the original bill that went to Brussels at the time of Croatia's accession negotiations to the European Union, it was said that the Croatian National Bank submitted an annual report adopted by the Croatian Parliament. So it literally stood so, and you can see it in the documents of the bill, after all, I was the proponent of the law as finance minister, and here we had to move, colleague Vujcic, Mrs Dalic were the deputy negotiators for this financial part. They can tell it was up in Brussels. I wasn't upstairs, but I'm saying we had to move it. And that's why I'm asking the question if we had to move it now whether we're adopting it or not. The second thing if we don't adopt, the law should stand as to what measures. Because if you don't adopt reports, then you know what's going on. And you have the law defined how and under what conditions can the governor of the Croatian National Bank be replaced. It doesn't stand there unless a report is adopted, everything and everywhere else. I mean, let's just open up the cards and talk straight.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3913	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jura Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3914	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Dear colleague Shuker, therefore I have also appeared in some way invited by the question and this discussion of the so-called "Shucker". legal framework. Here I come from a group of MOST representatives, we are partners politically in the Parliament, and we in MOST simply can't make peace with the fact that I personally don't settle with the fact that all our economic parameters are bad, that the economic parameters that unquestionably economic experts say have influence and the CNB and that we don't want to change anything, or we don't suggest any change. So it's all bad, it's bad for the citizens, it's bad for the economy, but the legal framework doesn't allow us to change it. And it's a casual position I'd say only to the CNB and it's a casual position, not only casual but also excellent and banks that deal with such citizens and with such an economy. As far as the legal framework is concerned, I think we're creating a legal framework. This Assembly has been elected by Croatian citizens to pass relevant laws on behalf of them. Of course, it is part of the legal framework and what we have accepted in the accession negotiations. In this direction we changed the Constitution for the position of the CNB and there we are in the Constitution, before it was the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament, now in the article I think 53. The Constitution said that the CNB submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament. So I believe if this report is submitted that it does not make any sense if the Croatian Parliament does not adopt or adopt it. As far as the legal framework is concerned, under this and such a legal framework for years in Croatia, we had illogically from the economic and legal aspect of high interest, not only regular and contractual but tight interest. They've been down to one still high but acceptable level in the last 4.5 years. Billions of kunas have been taken away from Croatian citizens and Croatian economies through these and such high-stricken interest rates, and they have now been changed. I think our responsibilities to Croatian citizens are much greater. So, first of all, we must not disappoint them and we contracts that are potentially harmful, and even with the European Union we can change, we can initiate their changes in the interests of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3915	Thank you. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3916	My colleague Martinovic can agree with you, but the agenda item is the report, the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank. No Annual report on the work of the Croatian National Bank, that is a big difference. That's a big difference. The report on the work, and then there wouldn't be a lot of these indicators, but they'd just be accompanying. And the work report would contain a concrete job that did the CNB and their responsibility for it. That's why I said let's legally specify things and then we won't have to fight. However, when we talk about tight interest, look, there are two participants in the process, you have someone who has sold some goods and that someone will not pay him the goods because of the ineffectiveness of the judiciary because they know that this process will last for some years, and many have unfortunately ended up in bankruptcy and have failed. So a tight interest rate has a criminal character for those who don't pay their dues. Because, on the other hand, however this guy pays a high-tight interest, you have to count on someone to borrow or hire money to make a certain product, and that product sold. Now let's watch how much he's cost, how much he lost on that product because someone didn't pay him in time. So there's a two-way street, you can't look one-way. Because also, if you find interest in taxes and everything in the state budget equal to a non-intentional loan that you can get in a business bank, then everyone would rather not pay you a tax than mess with a year or a few days to raise a loan. Well, it's just a fact of life. But I'm saying, it's nice to say why the interest is so tight. Let's look at how many Croatian entrepreneurs have failed because they haven't been paid, how many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have fallen now in this amended Act on Pre-accession settlement because no one asked them anything, but he said you'll get so much and so much paid, and no one mentions the interest rate. Let's think about these people who have failed, lost their property, and let's think about the people who have lost their jobs. You always have double-sighted eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3917	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3918	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I'd like to do is just vote on the annual report. Of course, I'm not a legal expert, but I've given myself a hard time, so I've just taken out what it's been like so far, so I'd like to pray that it stays that way. So, all these years, it has been voted that both the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been voted according to the conclusion that I know, and we are new here, although we are learning, voted according to the Committee's conclusion. And all these years after the board's conclusion, it was also voted in the assembly as it would have been, as I have already said, the board's conclusion. And it has always been accepted, the conclusion of the Committee has always been accepted or not accepted by the CNB, except one year 2013, when the Vice-President of the Committee has deliberately or unwittingly reached the conclusion that it is being taken into account. Now, you've got this morning I'm thinking of benches all that information is being taken into account. And logic tells you that although, of course, I'm not a legal expert like you either, I apologize to those who are legal experts, so we're getting the information. We vote yes or no. Just as I said in the assembly, I guess we're voting according to the board's conclusion. That conclusion by which we will probably vote on the Annual Report of the CNB for 2014 concluded the annual report, irrelevant. So it is accepted or not accepted, so I would ask that we vote according to the board's conclusion not to be taken into consideration, but accepted or not accepted and that we do not need legal experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3919	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker, I must tell you, so first of all, the law speaks of information, not report. And secondly, the board has not even discussed this, on this annual report. So it's from the former government. So now this composition of the Parliament, not the committee of the new committee that was formed in this composition, has not discussed it. So, of course, you can accept the opinion of that committee from the former composition clearly. But I just wanted to draw attention to those two facts, right? There he is, but he will be answered by distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3920	Kola Kovačić, by chance Mrs Dalic was the deputy chief negotiator for financial matters, so the lady who did not know how to propose a conclusion, suggested a conclusion in line with the debate in Brussels when a provision was thrown out of the law that the Croatian Parliament adopts the Annual Report of the CNB. So I'm asking us all one logical question. If such a bill was proposed, then the bill proposed by the Resoring Ministry, i.e. The Ministry of Finance. A colleague Maric, the current minister and I defended him here in the Parliament. And if Brussels refused such a formulation to adopt the report, then I don't understand and we've even broken down for a long time how to formulate that article at all and we came Solomonically to make some kind of proposal, that you practically don't have a clear definition of what it is. But look, I said I think we can make some lawyers bring an interpretation. I'm not going to fight to adopt or adopt a report, it's not mine at all. I'm just speaking for whoever was involved in the law-making process that was in Brussels and nothing else, without any intention of defending my colleague, Vujčić. After all, if we are to take a honest look at the HDZ Club debate as regards the CNB, the most neural points are mentioned. So no one mentioned the Swiss, no one mentioned the Austrian savings. Those may be the two most neural questions, so it wouldn't turn out that the HDZ club is defending someone. The HDZ club was only discussing in such a way as to warn our government that things must change in order not to discuss the same things next year. But I repeat here in this House was the proposed law, which said that the Croatian Parliament would adopt the annual report of the CNB. That provision did not pass in Brussels. She had to move out. But I'm saying, by chance, the lady who chaired the committee when the 2013 report was discussed was the main negotiator at the time, she probably doesn't know what she was negotiating upstairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3921	Here's the word for Mr. Boris Vujcic, the esteemed governor of the CNB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3922	Thank you, Mr. President. It's kind of embarrassing for me to say that it doesn't turn out to be speaking pro-domo sua, but I was also the deputy chief negotiator from 2005 to 2011. And this part of the negotiations and the acquis was directly negotiated by me, so I know all the details and the truth is what the distinguished counsel Schuker said. Therefore, it was proposed that the Croatian Parliament, as before, adopt the CNB report, but I consider it unacceptable because it essentially violates some of the provisions of the acquis. So, the legal gains of the EU that say the Assembly cannot either approve or adopt, suspend, cancel, or delay any CNB decisions. And it was asked then to change into the Constitution, so it fits, informs the law as well to say it informs the Parliament. So the point is that it receives, afterwards, after entering the EU, always a report from the CNB that can be called information and any other information. Secondly, it is a practice, for example, for the European Central Bank and some other banks to essentially hold a debate with representatives on monetary policy. So it's not about the report, especially the work report, it's about the debate. I'll take the chance later to talk about monetary policy and all these things that were mentioned here. But I just wanted to say this technical thing because I know very well, I've been to all the meetings that discussed it so that I know both the essence and the form of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3923	Thank you. The Republic has a distinguished representative Ivan Kovačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3924	Well, first of course, you will say and defend yourself that in the Parliament, only the annual report of the CNB is being taken into account. If there is a law, then there may be an EU instruction, if the law has been amended in the Republic of Croatia, if this is in accordance with the Constitution, then we will act accordingly. Otherwise, as far as I think in the Croatian state, the main legislative body is the Croatian Parliament. So we will work according to the existing laws of the Republic of Croatia. If something bothers us, as counterpart Martinovic said in protecting the interests of Croatian citizens and Croatian employers and businesses, we will first protect their interests and only the rest will we negotiate with the EU. So if there's one in the law, I'm willing to take note of the report. Unless it's me I'm in favour of voting for or against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3925	Here will be answered by the esteemed governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3926	I made it very clear what the point was. The point was precisely the one I said was to be taken into consideration since there was a clear commission around... to say it in English, is that right in the acquis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3927	Thank you very much. We'll move on now. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS-BUZ esteemed representative Dario Hrebak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3928	... as achieving a democratic standard. [[Specially enabled.]] We have been talking about, instead of talking about being, about the 2014 report, about how to support, not support it, whether it is possible, not possible, whether it has certain foames or has no penals. So, we're talking about technical matters, I'd dare say perhaps a political question to support or not to support, as well as in what way. I think we've gone a little bit off topic and that it's actually citizens in this first part of it that don't care. I am extremely sorry to talk today about the 2014 Report, given that we are in 2016 today, of course we have to do this, but I would take advantage of the opportunity to talk about the currents and to essentially learn some lessons from what happened in 2014 and earlier years. Because definitely not all things were positive, certain negative things were happening, and they felt it most on our citizens' backs. I think that today we should talk a little bit more about some actual things so that we can learn from the past so that we can counter and predict what might happen and events that have similar links to events from earlier years. First of all, I'd like to commend the CNB's initiative to stimulate the liquidity of the system and therefore Kunska. So we have all noticed in recent days how and in what way this CNB decision has an impact to our system and how in what way it will have and therefore directly positive in our opinion the consequences of lending in the Republic of Croatia. However, taking exactly what I was saying a few years ago, for example, the Franak case, I think that the citizens would like to know if, even though it's not going to work out for me from this layman's perspective, but I think the citizens would like to know whether there's also some hidden way that in the future, too, these positive loans and favourable to them might be negatively reflected in 10, 15 or 20 years again on our citizens. So what effect will Croatia also have on the Eurozone? We're saying today that we're going to enter the Eurozone in 10, 15 years, it doesn't matter. But we also need to know that citizens are now raising loans to 20 or 30 years. So, what I'm saying is, can you explain in a little more detail whether there are any more significant risks, whether about the euro, loans in euro, about loans in kunas? Are there certain risks that can today, tomorrow mean damage to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because today they are offered, Mr Schuker spoke of another currency, and today they are offered various loans that look very acceptable at this time, but the question is what will they look like in 15 or 20 years? In spite of all the problems, I would firstly stress that the report is very conceptual and technically correct and that we, who are not economic professions, can understand it quite well. In spite of all the problems in which our economy is located, however, we believe that the financial system is stable and liquid, and we believe that in one safe part the CNB has contributed. We welcome the expansion of monetary policy at the time of recession and absolutely respect that monetary policy has its limits in terms of high euroisation of the financial system and the anchor rate and that it is illusory to expect it to be the only answer to the major macroeconomic imbalances we see present in our system. What I would point out, and I think it is extremely important, is that it is quite clear that better cooperation between monetary and fiscal policies is needed. We saw the guidelines of the new Croatian government. Personally, I believe this is extremely important and is visible from the guidelines presented by the finance minister last Thursday that fiscal policy will be more consistent with monetary policy in the coming period and I personally believe that this move by the new Croatian government is extremely good, positive. So I'd like to see the CNB's position on that, too. Can we finally agree that monetary and fiscal policies are going in the same direction? On the other hand, I have a few suggestions and a question for Mr. Vujčić. The domestic sovereign debt market is one of the areas in which better cooperation of monetary and fiscal policy is possible through a specific body. So unfortunately, we already know several times today during the day, we were talking about how much the government debt is to us. However, we cannot stand to think, and in this 2014 report of yours, we have, you have found that the debt is enormously large but we cannot establish a specific strategy how, how to manage government debt and how and how to make a long-term strategy how to reduce it. That is exactly what seems very encouraging to me, and I think it is a positive and announcement by Prime Minister Oreshkovic to set up an agency whose role would therefore be to finance the state at the cheapest price and acceptable risk and the development of the domestic debt market. And my question specifically to Mr Vujcic would be whether the CNB also considers such a single body necessary and whether we can finally talk about the coherence of monetary and fiscal policy. The government has also announced a orientation to macroeconomic stabilisation, which is, among other things, our opinion, a basic precondition for the gradual market devalorisation of the system that would allow for an increase in the manoeuvre of monetary policy. A question for Mr. Governor, whether the CNB is oriented towards a market, gradual, multi-annual devalorisation of the financial system and if it is possible to assist the above mentioned agency, which together with the CNB would therefore seek to develop a domestic debt market in domestic currency. And finally the last. In the past few years, the banks didn't know what to do with the money, we saw it, it was easy to liquidate, the population was deleveraging, so the demand wasn't great about the loan. The only entity that was asked for was essentially money and could be placed and what could be placed was the state. Therefore, it is also evident that a recent warning came from the Croatian Banks' Association that banks have practically exhausted all their loan limits to the state. We've seen that I think it's basically somewhere around 25% of the total share of the government's assets and that it's growing. To what extent he can grow. Finally, the question is, how does the CNB view banks as being able to continue to finance the state and whether banks have actually reached their limits in lending money to the state or how this will have implications for Croatia's new borrowing on the domestic market. We will support this report. This is about 2014, we're not going to go into all those negatives, or we can't say that everything was negative, there were positive things. However, we will support this report. And I ask you colleagues that even in the future part of the debate, we are going further to try to see how all these negatives from 2013 and 2014 will be used in a way that in the near future similar things will not be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3929	We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Radiir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3930	Thank you very much. So, it's really about the report, we don't have room here for any other decisions except that we took it into consideration, whether we agree with it or not. I think that debate is groundless. We support, of course, the independence of the People's Bank, but we believe that the debate on all issues is necessary and probably, as a consequence, that debate will need to be introduced and some changes. I am personally far from being satisfied with the work of the Croatian National Bank over the past years and a little longer than the past years. There were excesses that dramatically affected the collapse of small banks from a small bank by a vice governor, so without serious sanctions, it just shows that they are too good at the People's Bank and costs hundreds and hundreds and billions of kuna citizens. Nobody even mentions it today. Of course, the behavior related to the Swiss franc and this is '14. is far from what would be expected from the People's Bank and especially given the responsibility, that is, part of the responsibility borne by the National Bank that no one who is realistically and objectively considering the situation has been questioned. After all, the solutions that were made as far as I could figure out were not quite accepted by the National Bank and the National Bank did not make any serious contribution. However, these are criticisms. There's probably more. But you have another truth. Not from today, it takes two to tango. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Therefore, the National Bank cannot have a significant impact on the change in interest reduction and the use of kuna loans without having a growing economy and government as a partner. So if we don't just take it as a negative, the bank is looking for a partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3931	Thank you very much. That was a statement, not a replica. I don't know if or what my colleague Dario Hrebac will be able to answer. He will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3932	In fact, I have nothing to answer because there was no practical replica, but I support Mr. Cacic's debate and I think that was the intention and that it was essentially the whole taste of things, we can't have an effective system unless monetary policy and fiscal policy come together and if the government and the CNB don't act in the same direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3933	And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3934	My colleague Hrebak, on the line, offered me your statement about the state's funding, which the state took. Look, there were periods in this country out there until 2013 that you heard the Messiah appear in the evening, said that and that, you should do it and do it. That's what the CNB was talking about. God forbid someone said something different. Then something else happened, and the story turned. However, when the central bank began to release part of the reserve there in 2008, and when the state took part in the loan, then the state's attacks began to take money away from the economy. Now we're asking the diametrically opposite question why the state doesn't take that same money from the CNB. So we have to be in a certain way, the state takes simply on the market where it needs to be. And at the moment we don't have a deficit, we won't take the money or when we sell it, so we won't have to be in debt. It's just two facts. These are truths that simply cannot be spoken of in a different way. As long as you have a deficit, you're either going to have to charge yourself or you're going to have to sell something to finance that deficit. Now, whether the central bank releases some of the funds and the state takes that part of the funds or takes them away from the economy. So I was talking about a model that went there in crisis years, but we were also faced with facts, and even in the CNB report that the state for its borrowing is practically credit activity of business banks etc. She took it without leaving it to the entrepreneurs. So let's take a look. Unfortunately, many memories still serve me well, so I remember discussing the same topics differently in different situations. The economy has its own legality, has its pluses, minuses, results and certain anomalies. Therefore, one thing should always be spoken of in the same way. I tell you by 2013 every message that came from the central bank was like the message of someone sublime, it must be so. After 2013 the story turned and I don't know what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3935	Thank you. The distinguished representative Dario Hrebak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3936	Comrade Shuker, we agree, unfortunately. You need to accept reality as it is. The Croatian state you said yourself will have to be in debt, and that is why my debate went in the direction of having to make a specific strategy how, how to manage public debt. I specifically spoke, and I asked Mr. Vujčić and about domestic borrowing, so at home banks as much as possible. The other day I was in a debate on the same round table, where basically one information was presented that surprised me like that, that in fact, in the last 10 or 15 years, we were only on the difference in interest when borrowing was on the domestic or foreign market essentially lost one Pelješki bridge. So I agree with you the reality is reality and we need to approach it without further politicizing, without collecting cheap political points and right here today on this topic and here I think we are thinking alike and you and Mr. Cacic have a very constructive discussion in this direction. But I also think it is important and I welcome what Mr. Prime Minister Oreshkovic said, that it is important to form a special body that would be involved in this, and on the other hand, to make one strategy finally, how, in which way, to reduce the existing responsibility of the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3937	Thank you very much. And as the last Club of Representatives, it will be the HSS club, the HDS, on behalf of which the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3938	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, respected rapporteurs. Here on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party and the HDS I welcome all. Regarding this report, it is not essential for us whether this report will be adopted, not adopted or accepted. For us, it is crucial that the activities of the CNB are of course to support its independence and activities through monetary policy, which has been produced on the ground and how this changes in the future. And you know what she produced in the field? Follow media statements and announcements, statistical reports. Slavonia and Baranja woke up this morning with 14 people less every day. Over 100,000 young families have moved out of the Republic of Croatia and mostly from Slavonia and Baranja. More than 500 crafts are less in a year in Brod-Posavia County, and there is a similar trend in neighbouring counties. The smallest investment activity is in Slavonia and Baranja, Lica and other regions where there were not enough policy-making policies for both the former government and the resolution ministries, as well as banks as financial institutions, and the monetary policy of the CNB has not stimulated the placement to raise economic activity. It has already been said here that monetary policy is and must be a tool for raising economic activity. The report also mentions that economic activity grew slightly after years of recession in the first half of 2015. But the report also acknowledges that this growth is largely due to the contribution of total growth of goods and services to the external markets in the euro area and that this is the result of increased demand from the external market, mostly from the euro area and that is the fact. And why it came down to growing economic activity in the euro zone. We have just heard today in the report that the policy of the European Commission, the European Union and business banks has changed, that the aim is to increase investment and increase employment and that this results in growth in economic activity and increased demand for goods and services in the Croatian market. On the other hand, the question arises what we have done through monetary policy and through the credit policy of business banks to help exporters. There have been many criticisms and objections to currency stability, to the stability of the kuna which in the good part did not go in the interest and in favour of exporters especially in the wood-processing sector and some others, metal-processing, where we were not sufficiently competitive on the EU market because of such a policy. So here I repeat the question is there always a good stability of the kuna currency relative to the euro and other currencies? And how much does this contribute to economic activity in the Republic of Croatia? Of course, inflation needs to be feared, but we can see that deflation is even worse. This report also mentions a slight recovery in the labour market, an increase in employment. Unfortunately, this has mostly happened through the actions of the Ministry of Labour, the Employment and Activities Institute of Local and Regional Self-Government through the employment of one-year activities and seasonal work, and very few new jobs in the real sector and in Slavonia and Baranja and beyond. I think what Mr. former minister is and now fellow Parliamentarian Maras has said about me unacceptable. It has already been said here that the CNB must be a partner to the ministries and the government of the Republic of Croatia in policy making, in raising economic activities. It is unacceptable for me and for the HSS that the ministry, the county and local and regional self-government take over the role of banks and the National Bank to stimulate entrepreneurial activity, investment through co-financing of interest. We also realised this in Brod-Posavina County last year 20 million kuna loans. So it has the interest of investors to create new jobs, but business banks still have interest in them too high and unacceptable and are not competitive enough through this way. And I think that there must be a way for the CNB through monetary policy, through agreement with business banks and ministries, primarily the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of crafts and entrepreneurship to find a model to more actively stimulate economic growth and through a credit placement of financial resources. Of course I'm personally interested, and the HSS, how many credit ratings were there in agriculture and processing? The fact is, what we know from the field is that it is very small, and in particular business banks' payments to family farms were unrecognizable in business banks as business partners. The conditions laid down simply for them did not, could not realize them or could not come to a model of how to finance their agricultural production. And let us remember that 2015 was the world year of family farms. Well, it's not for no reason, the whole world knows that food production is the strategic interest of every society, so it should be in the Republic of Croatia. And we haven't found a model because for two or three years there's been no classic one co-financed loans for family farms. We had an operational program to raise the level of production in cattle, in pigs. Unfortunately, there are neither protected family farms that have consumed these loans because they are in one debt slavery to business banks where they still cannot affect the business policies of buyers and their goods. Here's a last example: an increase in the price of milk where a unilateral purchaser lowers the price, and when the farm was raised by that same credit user had to be credited with that business bank, give them a 500 thousand kuna note, I know an example concrete. Although the European Commission conditioned that in the contract, the purchaser's purchase price must be unilaterally changing the price and causing the number of dairy producers to fall from 9.5 thousand to 8 thousand. And if this trend continues, there will be even less. I think that's what I'm saying in the context of what I was saying at the outset that it doesn't matter whether we accept it or not, whether we accept it or not, but that we all need to find a way out of this situation together whether it's a reform of monetary policy, whether it's an amendment to the CNB Act, but something has to be done urgently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3939	Thank you. We have two replicas in this debate. First respected representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3940	Thank you very much. So from what we've heard in the presentation of the HSS club, I'd say there's a whole series of indications that the role of the National Bank is seen in one light that's not real. The National Bank of Croatia is not a commercial bank. So there's also a part of the role of the National Bank but now I'm going back to that basic topic that, in fact, the National Bank, if there's no partner in the state, there's no solution. The National Bank of Croatia during Rohatinski and later during the current governor tried on several occasions to offer cheap kunas in serious proportions. As you know, nothing happened. It did not happen for the first and the most basic reason our banking system operates according to European standards. They're tough, our economy doesn't have a balance, there's no power to take the money. HBOR is not ready to take risks, commercial banks must not. So one solution is to use the guarantee potential of state property value through a real estate fund to hold back our economy. Then the offer of money from the CNB comes up with the possibility of the economy taking over the commercial banks. So the state and the CNB have to act together on that we've already talked about today, it's the government's task when the past hasn't done enough of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3941	Thank you. Here's a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3942	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Cacic and you and I agree that this situation is unsustainable and that something must be changed, of course that the Croatian National Bank has a law under which it operates and cannot be otherwise. However, the Government, the National Bank and the Business Bank must find models that spare funds and we see that the daily liquidity of the Croatian National Bank is above expectations and that the funds only need to be qualityd towards the economy in terms of creating new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3943	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3944	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is a colleague of Vlaovic's you mentioned agriculture and finding a model for agriculture. I remember as early as Mr. Fristic and his 6 billion for the village and the time of Sanader are looking for a model, but the model cannot liven up. So I'm asking you, how come your party hasn't been able to find and implement that model in 10, 15 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3945	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davor Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3946	Mr. fellow Parliamentarian Sincic, of course I am pleased that you are also interested in the village and agriculture and production and stability of this sector. You can see for yourself that it is not easy, that in most euro, agriculture is held in the focus of interest and that there are problems everywhere. And in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Peasant Party, of course, must seek solutions with its partners and I believe that through the activities of the current minister, this government and through the activities of the current minister, a single turn has been announced that we will succeed in starting agricultural production but it must be common interest as it stands in the law that agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy, we must all accept it together and act.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3947	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3948	Thank you again, Mr. Vice President. Here is the work of the Croatian National Bank and the Croatian National Bank Report, one could only talk about Swiss for a week. We didn't hear much about Swiss today. I expected to. Unfortunately, I won't touch him much here either, because the problem is really extensive. Well, here's to not wasting my time. I'll read one piece to make it faster. I must say before this House that during the 2014 presidential campaign, I had the honour and duty to impose the issue of the Croatian National Bank, monetary reform and victims of banks, several months before the great leap of the Swiss franc in the first month of 2015. Financial literacy and method of calculating interest on loans, which is all about the financial system and especially the problem of creating and broadcasting money in the world, especially in Croatia, is only in turns. The state of ignorance and distraction opens up a powerful space for manipulation and fraud of citizens by banks. The CNB, instead of taking care of the stability of the financial system, has endangered the citizens on both sides. First, in its poor monetary policies, it has significantly broken the real economy's power for the past 20 years and then allowed now poor and uninformed citizens to be victims of bad financial products, products taken under poor conditions with currency clauses, variable interest rates, generally high interest rates, because for the second time as poor, they were not credit-worthy or solvent. It should also be asked why businesses have over 200 different fees that increase their income. Multiply only the number of accounts of natural and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia with fees for holding accounts and you will get hundreds of millions of kuna expenses per year, literally for nothing. For one electronic record. It's been said before, it's a key thing. The Croatian National Bank is neither a Croatian nor a national or a central bank. The Croatian National Bank is not like other central banks like Europe and I will say such a normal world. Our people's bank is a currency exchange. The CNB creates primary money mainly on the basis of the exchanges it purchases, sells or owns. This means that no kuna exists and that there was no equivalent in foreign exchanges before, or most often is the euro as the professor mentioned before me. We only use Kunas as a fig leaf, as some sticker we stick to that euro. This condition because generated disgustingly... Econtaneous rate from 7% to 9% held a year up to a few months ago when it was reduced to 3%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This forced business banks to go to an international market where interest rates are much lower. The European Central Bank has long been, if I am not mistaken, holding an interest rate somewhere around half a percent and a federal reserve of about 0.25%. So a dozen times less than in Croatia. The banks there task us with foreign exchanges in these international markets, bring these foreign exchanges to Croatia where they must operate according to the law in kunas and exchanges in our exchange shop and foreign exchanges into kunas that then continue to broadcast to citizens and the economy. Since that money goes through a lot of hands and not just a few, of course every hand is looking for its margin and we have high interest on loans and a currency clause related to all these loans. So we also have currency risk. Due to this monetary policy, Croatian citizens, entrepreneurs and workers have high interest rates on loans, 2, 3, 4 and more times, but in what period, but on which credit rather than in the normal countries. At the end of the high interest rate there is also a Croatian state that is financed by business banks. Due to this monetary policy, the external debt of the Republic of Croatia is growing. Also, CNB is often raised by foreign reserves and thus, in fact, deceives the public because they are not foreign reserves because they are not produced or exported, but rather by a fraction of the foreign debt and the consequences of borrowing. So because we're in charge of international foreign exchange markets, we have foreign reserves. A series of harmful policies cannot stop, of course there is a harmful course policy that has been since '93. and in '94, respectively. is unrealistic, or we subsidize import goods. Kuna is too old for us, now the question is how, how much is it to bring about in real life? It's another topic we could talk about for a week. I'm going to say something about monetary sovereignty that is at all the taste of the party Living Wall, the party of debtors. So the money that the business banks have is their private property, so we know what private property is. These banks can dispose of that money as they wish. They can want it or they can't want to invest in projects that we'd like as a state. They don't have to, there's no such thing. Therefore, we are like a society and a state in their mercy, in a depending position against them. A team more if we remember we don't have a single state bank other than the Post Office that the government already tried to sell, but it didn't work out. Without our banks we are completely losing control, the credit sovereignty of the economy and Croatia govern private, often foreign interests that conduct their policies here, their economic policies and not our economic policies. The bank's recovery could be discussed again for a week, unfortunately I don't get there, so I'll move on. So we denied ourselves in '94. The year by adaptation of the Mastricht Agreement the right to issue money and we privatized it, gave it into private hands and banned by law that we can only get to our money through private banks either domestic or foreign. That's if I'm not wrong about Article 40. The National Bank Act or 109. The Master's contract. We've banned the state from funding from the central bank. No, we don't want the money half-percent or no interest from the central bank, that's not what we're gonna do. We want 5%, 10%, and all at currency risk. It was a huge mistake in the sovereignty of the Croatian state. However, those who have decided on this will, of course, transfer that cost to citizens who are now suffering high loans. I absolutely disagree that we should give up monetary authority. It's like we give up the Croatian Parliament, so let's privatize the Croatian Parliament, so let Agrokor or Adris group pass laws. I don't agree with the criticisms of some journalists, so-called. An analyst that politics shouldn't interfere with the National Bank. You should absolutely interfere and absolutely ask the Parliament always, not only when the governor is extended his mandate. If it works badly, there should be sanctions. Independence does not mean that it can allow someone to do harm. As far as the real economy is concerned, we believe that the currency clause should absolutely be abolished, going towards a reduction in interest rates and that the Croatian National Bank should radically change its monetary policy. It should also be asked why Croatian bills are not paid for in Croatia. Here we could support Croatian printers, because if you look at them it says they are produced in Austria and Germany, and when you ask the National Bank why, they say it is not worth making money in Croatia. Finally, let me say something about the consequences of business banks in Croatia, and I will start with Erste Bank. A scandal directed by Erste Bank and its recent leadership, Mr. Petar Radakovic, should be mentioned. Here's an example. In Osijek, in Martina Divalta Street, the people who paid the apartments neatly are facing a raid because Erste Bank wants to depose them because of a debt that is not theirs, but is the investor's debt to the bank. So, the citizens paid their debts, paid for these apartments. However, Erste Bank decided to charge on them rather than on KT technology and the investor. I also have to mention the "Watch out who you're banking with" association that I've been involved in. It's about the association of 105 natural legal entities that she cheated, then shut down Erste Bank. She started giving them loans, and then in the middle of the loan, she retreated. Now he's doing the men, everything they've brought back to us by now. Of course it's not theirs, it's still going to lose the project and not everything they've done. Major damage has been done to the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens through the work of banks. This is the wild west of the Croatian financial system. Next, the Raiffeisen cooperative, it's just a story for itself. How is it possible for someone to share hundreds of millions of euros of loans on the Croatian coast by putting mortgages on the most valuable properties? How is it possible for Croatian courts to find themselves unauthorized when such contracts are to be annulled, and when these properties are to be completed, to throw these people on the street, then they are competent, then they carry out those tasks. I'm saying again, you could talk about it for at least a week. As for the Swiss, I am very sorry that the CNB protected private banks who refused to show the balances last year and who claimed that they took so many and so many Swiss people, so many and so many Swiss people converted and sent them as loans. No, these Swiss never entered, or entered much less than they wanted to display. And I'm actually very sorry that one such institution supports such a robbery of citizens. And at the end of the day, I'm going to conclude and ask when we're going to have Iceland so that the bankers can answer for this kind of thing and finally end up in prisons. Furthermore, because of severe deviations, negligence, haughtiness, irresponsibility, the protection of robbery, the violation of democracy and the will and interest of the people to be protected by the CNB in the last 20 years. The living wall will not support this report, or at least this form, because here we are so empowered that we cannot even accept, nor refuse, but only let us know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3949	Thank you. We have two replicas in this debate. The first is the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3950	Well, here you go, Mr. Son, I've been listening very carefully to this display of yours. I'd only one point to ask you before that. I really want to congratulate you on one activism in the previous period where this issue of monetary, monetary issues of sovereignty and the position of the CNB has opened up to the public, and I will really tell everyone here no matter what party belongings that is. It couldn't have been discussed before. Right? We can discuss this much better today. You have pointed out here, as far as I can see in your debate, the issue of transparency and if I'm not mistaken, you have come to the conclusion that this form of government is monetary, if I have well concluded the authority of these three other forms of government. What you think should be done to make the work of the CNB more transparent, more responsible and that simply the whole society would benefit more than that. Do you also advocate changes to the CNB Act? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3951	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3952	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Professor, for your comment. Here, specifically on your starting question, should be sent a review to the CNB. Of course, the CNB Act needs to be amended. Also, I have pointed out many times that for the Living Wall of the CNB is a Pharaohic institution that is no match for anyone, and here we can no longer refuse the report. One institution that I will thus say 90% of the Croatian problem and the evil little man caused on one side, the other or the third. I think half of the problem has already been solved by the fact that today we are discussing this problem and that there are so many victims and those of francs and of delicacies and of all others that it was necessary to organise people, to impose this question here today. We want a public debate, open and we will always stress this need and we will support the proposals of the law and, if necessary, we will give our amendments. Of course monetary power is far more important because we are in vain and we are passing laws if we have no way to finance them, right? Because without money, there's nothing you can do in today's world. And who has that power and who controls that power in Croatia? It should be the financial system regulator right now, and that's the CNB. Therefore, it is necessary to change the character of that institution because it has proved to be unreliable, as corrupt, and as someone who protects the private interest rather than the interest of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3953	Thank you. Second replica, the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3954	Mr Sincicu, in your debate, you have analyzed both the work and the problems encountered by Croatian citizens related to the banking sector and the CNB said that you will not support this report, although it is only I who would say one technical copy of what was happening. But I agree with you, this is a bit of a political issue and our assessment as the Croatian Parliament is whether we are satisfied with how the CNB works, whether we want to change in one part of the CNB Act and what the future of the CNB is like. Are we satisfied with the position he now holds in society and that he behaves from opportunity to opportunity, that he does not protect in the most important part those in Croatian society, which are citizens, that he does not provide enough support to the sources of Croatian banks to finance our entrepreneurs. Actually, I agree with you a little bit. This report is essentially one test as this Assembly has an opinion on the work of the CNB and what work should be in the future. And on this side, I am extremely dissatisfied that the activities of the CNB in the past period have been more visible and more intense when under quotes "hazarded" the status of banks, at that time it was a much stronger intensity of activities from the CNB, than when the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were at stake. And that's why I'm here I'm giving you support in this part of it I'm going to think very carefully about how I'm going to vote on this report precisely because of these elements.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3955	Thank you. The following has been reported for an individual debate by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3956	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here in the debates so far, in order not to repeat themselves, the fundamental problem is that the Croatian economy, the Croatian citizens with the interest they have in Croatia, is being braked, and in fact where these banks come from, where their owners are not. Mostly these interest rates caused a lot of problems. So now I'm going to say a little bit about what the CNB Act isn't about, and that's the business of savings-credit cooperatives. So in Croatia, we have about 10,000 debtors of credit who have been deceived by these savings-credit cooperatives. Debtees, except for these citizens of ours, except for the fact that the fraud victims of their home are taking away financial resources for life... Closest member of the family, friends experience judgment at every turn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The paroles need to be returned from the pâté. Yes, it's regulated by law, not interest. It's like any of them took credit with the intention of not returning it. Debtants were particularly selected persons who had real estate in their possessions that they used as a mortgage instrument, guaranteeers with regular incomes of evil did not need and needed. I am therefore sorry that the previous banks are not of the savings-credited cooperatives which are also foreign-owned and have not taken any action or very little, so I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to lead with Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic, esteemed ministers, all parliamentary representatives, the president of the Croatian National Bank who can also propose amendments to the law, all of us MPs to catch the biggest problems in the country in order to finally end the agony of our fellow citizens who are in long-standing slavery. I repeat again because the CNB Act does not regulate the business of these savings-credit cooperatives. And that is also our obligation to end this long-standing struggle of our fellow citizens in this desperate situation. Not by law and ignoring legal provisions, responsible institutions of the Republic of Croatia have for years abused a large number of citizens who are victims of organised financial crime the worst species that have led to the edge of existence and many, who have led many citizens to the edge of existence and many unfortunately stood for life. They threatened their families, relatives, and friends. They say that justice is slow but affordable. In Croatia, unfortunately, it is for many too slow. At this moment, and in Croatia, at this moment, it has been going on in Croatia for years, especially at risk are the signs of officials of savings credit cooperatives whose owners... The organizer of the international financial crime chain, managed to gather all the key evidence of criminal activities, the networked criminals who had substantiated... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A leap based on which many ended up in investigative prisons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are also criminal acts against them. But their warrants by confiscating all cash and real estate accounts aren't stopped at the FINA. So he continues to charge FINA and the interest loans to our citizens. That way the state and everything... They are directly involved in a joint crime against their citizens that no one asks any questions about institutions, laws or civil servants or officials, no one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, it's about time we solved this burning problem of our fellow citizens. And there are many of them. To see how many illegal elements there are in the contract and procedure, for example. the application of comfortable interest in contracts which, in a short time controlled, increase debt, which is why neither interest nor principal can be reduced. Under two, public notation certificates that do not verify legality, which do not verify legality, the correctness of a swimming order. Under three, sending a pedestal order from lawyers, attorneys, by the cooperative in FINA without a court ruling because it is not necessary. However, a court ruling is required of debtors when they want to stop a pedicure order, although there is a legal provision that the pedicure must not be carried out. So we've got a number of people coming out of this because of the unsustainable pressure of conscience that they've caused their irresponsible behaviors to be the closest members of their families and friends, because of these interest rates and interest rates of foreign savings cooperatives, networked criminals, many of our fellow citizens have committed suicide. This is what many associations are fighting for and what they're called. Many have pointed out here from us politicians in the previous period and from one government and another government, but it is high time to help our fellow citizens because no one says these people should not repay the loan but cannot borrow a loan, interest rate in Croatia is not allowed. I will repeat the words again in the 1990s of the first Croatian President Dr. Tudjman said that the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket and the Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder. What our citizens feel now is because they are unprotected and have done nothing. That is why I call once again on all of us to change the rules of law and to protect our fellow citizens and to comply with the law as soon as possible from the Government to the Croatian National Bank. I've still got time. I'll do it again for a while. The Croatian state does not have its own national bank. If he has it, it's the Croatian Post Bank. Everything needs to be done that in Croatia we have a strong national bank that will also be agro-banks, which will encourage agriculture and the economy and not have interest drawn from foreign banks, and now on some islands their owners, interest from our citizens from the performance, from reminders or anything I don't know what, billions and billions of kunas are extorting. We were put in a situation where we sold out Croatian gold, deposits, it's even questionable how it works, I'm not an expert on how the monetary fund works. The time has come to tell those who wish to pressure the Croatian society gentlemen you will not, we have a part of sovereignty, we cannot always be servants. Or else it doesn't make sense to this Croatian home if we can't, the High House, if we can't protect our fellow citizens. And being an obedient, someone's obedient under alleged signs, and working under the citizens' best interests, that's a disaster. They say you can't vote MPs on this report, this is information. Then what are we talking about? So do gentlemen from the CNB whatever you want, make arrangements, work, transfer to us responsibility you can't. However, it is better to pay for the penalty but to vote on the report and, by conscience and responsible to our citizens, to come and say our position on why we are to be like this or not. It turns out that we are parliamentary representatives to receive information and it has been signed with the European Union. Who negotiated? The one who went to protect himself. It's like reaching civilizational, democratic procedures to be banks protected by state. Who's prescribing salaries? Who rules in such institutions as the Croatian National Bank, who determines? So that's the state of the country. If we are gentlemen of the state in the country then let you do this, if this is the case, you don't have to give us any more reports because I personally won't take that responsibility unless I can vote on this report. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3957	Thank you. We have three replicas at your hearing. The first is the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3958	Mr. Bulj, as a multi-year Croatian defender, I see and hang out with you, you are particularly sensitive to all the irregularities that are happening because you see that now it's as if we're in some cobweb, that we're in, that we're getting more and more complicated in it and you can't see it, it's hard to fight it. And that's the world of modern finance where, under quotes, let's say you don't see the enemy, and you're getting into slavery more and more. I'd just like to ask you here about the citizens that you said were about 10,000 who were killed by the operation, the illegal operation of savings-credit cooperatives from Austria. You pointed out, that I agree entirely that's a huge problem. These people write to us every day. They don't have anyone to talk to, they're asking us to handle it. Please tell me if you feel this infirmity and how you even interpret the role of the central bank that we said was monetary authority. If it is a monetary authority, then it is understood that it should be allowed or forbidden to act that way and simply because you are thinking about what should be done realistically in this context to protect these people, to help them as do those in Swiss francs where the struggle was difficult. I've been alone for four years and I still want to help. But it's one real way to activism, politically solve the problem successfully. Here, please answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3959	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3960	Thank you very much. Mr. Milinović, the truth is you are just one of those who have warned you for years and I followed your work because before the election I did not know you personally and it is an honor to meet you and to talk about this topic. You also mentioned a colleague of our parliamentary representative Ivan Sincic who also warned of the current half-tronic politics of all governments. Of course, I'm not likely to be able to interest our citizens in the FINA business, and the CNB can either prevent it or not. I'm not a financial expert, but it's amazing that we organized criminals, we let the lenders into the state that we now have thousands of commissions over houses, murders for these cases. Croatian families are falling apart. So I don't know who's powerful or powerless? Yeah, it's an obligation to repay credit, but what kind of credit? Credits like in Austria, credits like their citizens have, and not that at the end of 100 kunas come that literally this is what I'm saying now literally that people are left without real estate, without their houses and the only houses and apartments. If it is a national policy and if that is the way of the Croatian state, then we are this country, unfortunately we will lose it. Things have to change urgently how laws if they're not neat, I'm not professional, you're more professional, and I hope you'll contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3961	Thank you. The second replica of the distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj, your debate about the consumer, about the savings, i.e. users of Raiffeisen Savings and Credit Cooperatives, I personally think that it is aimed at the wrong address regarding the CNB at this point does not carry a crime of responsibility for all of our Croatian citizens for whom we have been trying to find a solution here for several years. Amendments to the Consumer Credit Act at the end of last year have resolved some things. However, by law, you know that retroactively we cannot act. So, those who have so far taken the loans, they took it and it couldn't have been affected. But some changes have been made for all those Croatian citizens who want to take it in the future. Why am I saying that perhaps the Croatian National Bank is the least guilty? I've worked very hard with these citizens, we've asked the government and the ministries and the State's Attorney's office a lot, and in the end we've found that perhaps the biggest problem is that the biggest problem is the law offices and public offices that signed documents in their offices in Croatia with the place of signing Graz, Vienna or any Austrian city. And that's why I don't think the CNB here has any responsibility in the sense that she's missed something, and what we think the CNB should have done is to give approval to these Austrian savings-credit cooperatives to operate on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So, it turns out now by all these damages, that no contract is concluded in the Republic of Croatia and what the law offices representing the Raiffeisen Austrian banks in our courts where the properties of our citizens are carried out are called precisely for not doing business in Croatia, that they did business in Austria according to the laws that were in force in Austria. And that's the problem these fellow citizens have. And I think we should be honest about not leading them into an even greater delusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3963	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3964	Thank you, dear colleague Tyrelli. So in this direction I was also saying that the tribal, here I have invited the current prime minister, the minister of power, our parliamentary representatives to finally solve this problem. Simply this problem was not solved because apparently someone had no will, and he had the opportunity to prevent it. This is about interest, it's about pure interest. Of course not only these savings-credit cooperatives, but even the curiosity and banks that operate in ours, in the Republic of Croatia that have a dozen, five times less interest on their citizens than they are on them. So, the official banks basically have interest rates because it was Austria, Italy, for its citizens, regardless of which state such interest is not. So, those of our citizens are pulling out money, and this is just about a savings credit union and a tribune to settle the law. The CNB cannot be excluded from having no responsibility, as it may affect certain legal changes, but cannot be over the state in the country. She, if we don't have the right to vote as parliamentary representatives that the people have chosen. So what are we discussing now? They're the state of the country. So the legislation needs to be changed or complemented, I'm not an expert, there's Professor. Lovrinović or people who have dealt with this before, who have been dealing with this their whole lives, but should protect these citizens. It's a loan, so savings-credit cooperatives, it's a loan, bound crime against crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3965	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3966	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I wanted to point out by referring to the debate of my colleagues, Bulja, that we are therefore subject to the adaptation of the Maastricht Agreement and, later, by entering the EU, let's say that we gave up the right to directly finance the state or, therefore, the institutions owned or controlled by the State of the National Bank. But there is a way, there are even ways from the EU to withdraw funds from the central bank in a much cheaper way than is done today through our new exchange office system. That's a lot more to say. The other thing you said was we need a strong bank. So to develop one sector of economy, I don't know the agriculture of my colleague Vlaovic or I don't know tourism we need finance. Now that we're talking about finance, we're mostly talking about loans. Who gives loans under the law? Business banks give them away. We control what kind of strong business bank? Not really. We have this thing, Post office, something about HBOR which is a different story, but mostly we don't control loans to a large extent. So, we are not able to finance our projects but rather someone else who, at his will, decides whether to borrow or not. Maybe he ruled on your agriculture and said I wouldn't invest in it, and then what can she do when she can't get the money? He can look for something in the European funds, pull money out of his stockings, and he can only fail. So we must return and credit sovereignty not only monetary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3967	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3968	Well, I agree. Protecting national interests above all else. Any monetary policy, any other policy. So, it is exclusively necessary to draw the line of the Croatian National Bank in which the models are strengthened is, the financial experts know better, and from that we can finance at more favourable interest and our citizens mainly the economy. In this way simply just a moment ago a colleague from HSS said that 14 people a day have fewer, today was born or died. National interests first of all. Servant politics so far has brought us all into this. You can't be a servant in the negotiations, you have to protect national interests, sovereignty isn't entirely impossible, but we have handed over to someone complete sovereignty for which in the Homeland War and it fought bloodyly throughout history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3969	Thank you. The next one for an individual debate is the distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3970	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Bačić for being replaced, and I apologize in advance if someone is replicating me, because at 1:00, I have a meeting of the Committee on Fiscal Responsibility, so I'll be very, very brief. First, I will refer to those remarks whether the report is accepted or noted. It is true that, for 2013, the Committee also took note of the report at its session and was also voted in the plenary session of the Parliament. However, the 2014 Annual Report, which was discussed on 6 July 2015, is therefore to be voted on on the adoption of the annual report. It is not taken into account but the board has concluded that the Annual Report of the CNB is accepted and proposes to the Croatian Parliament with 6 votes in favour, 1 vote against the proposal for a conclusion that the annual report is accepted. It's the last version of the Committee on Finance and Budget. Of all the major problems that arise in the Croatian economy and related to the CNB, I will highlight only one, which is the supervisory of the banking sector and I think the time has come to think that the supervisory is being singled out of the CNB. There's a need for that, there's a reason, but I think the head of the CNB will agree with that. The annual reports of the CNB have been copies of the previous report for a decade. Just what data changes. Generally, there's a bunch of unnecessary and trivial things and data in this report, and there's no important information. What's wrong? There is no fundamental development of the risk of investing international reserves. There is no information on the assessment of the effects of the occurrence of the so-called the case of a Swiss franc or credit related to a Swiss franc. There is no assessment of the impact or consequences at all, although this huge problem has already emerged in 2014. There is no development of the CNB balance from the start of the asset to the capital account at the end of the asset-sourced Passive. There is no explanation of the inverse phenomenon of the increased liquidity of the banking sector and at the same time reduced credit activity in Croatia. There is no explanation why the credit structure is the most unfavourable of all EU members. There is no explanation why there has been a growth in partial or totally uncharging loans to as many as 48.2 billion kunas. But here's how you explain the decline in credit activity and the growth of unfavourable so-called. Bad loans. the growth of unfavourable so-called Bad loans. It is said that I quote: "The days of bank loans in 2014 have been reduced from 2.4% nominally to 2.9% effectively, i.e. 6.9 billion kuna reduced credit activity.". They explain that negative phenomenon. Yes, the bank's loans, however, helped hold the high level of B and C loans, these poor loans. As if keeping high-priority loans was a positive phenomenon, so it helped reduce credit activity that this negative... Stay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is similar to writing that blood circulation in the body has been reduced, which is bad but it has helped to keep bad cholesterol at a high level at the same level. It's kind of like that explained the graphics of this. There is no information or explanation as to why the situation in the banks in which the CNB sent its commissioners has deteriorated significantly rather than before sending the Commissioners except in one case. And the Croatian National Bank commissioner assumes the Pharaoh power, assumes all functions and assemblies and supervisory boards and boards of society. No one in Croatia can do this except the Croatian National Bank. And then there's a flood, especially in small banks. And then these little banks are offered to the big banks to buy for the bad guys. It is particularly confusing not to say and worrying and from the point of view of reason and facts it is unacceptable that this report suggests what is the situation in Croatian society, the economic situation of good, acceptable and excellent. And that the CNB is satisfied with itself, with its work and with the state of Croatia. After just these defiances, extraordinary and open inversions, and even sometimes a prank, these reports have no level for any closed round table. It is unacceptable for this honorable Croatian Parliament, in some segments and humiliating. Therefore, according to my professional and human conviction, it is absolutely pointless to continue to discuss this report. I'm giving up further discussion, not to give up my position that I won't support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3971	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3972	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's Mr. Maric. I was going to ask you a question, but here's a comment. This topic is really very important and we can see that it is getting more and more important in society. I'd just like to remind you here that some people are trying to relativize how they're going to vote today. He made it very clear that Mr. Maric had voted last time. And for us too, it will be interesting if tomorrow there is a vote in our political alliance will also be a test of such credibility tomorrow because we have signed this strategic agreement which in 99% means agreeing, one important point, on this means the position of the CNB, the monetary system, etc. And I'm glad that we've achieved a high degree of consent in this regard, so I don't think there's gonna be any problem. But allow only 50 seconds for these exposures not to be tragic, gentlemen, there is one break here is the governor who is called the capital account in the balance sheet of the Croatian National Bank, there is 17,5 billion kuna, there is a capital of 2.5 billion kuna, which of course never has been paid by the state. So there are 15 billion related to general and special reserves. I don't have time to explain, I can explain later, I'll just make a suggestion. I see the Minister of Finance is struggling, and I'd do something wrong, where he'd save, where he'd find the money. From that 15 billion to capital 7 to 10 billion can be withdrawn, added to the budget. Croatia can solve literally I won't say anything overnight, run the excessive deficit process, run a certain investment programme and never say anything about it, let's open that story. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3973	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3974	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my dear governor, my dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will look back at three points in this report that I am interested in and which I would like to share. In the first row, I would refer to the data that for me as a parliamentary representative who is not an economist, is not a financier, I am, coming from a technical profession is almost amazing. In fact, last year in the Croatian Parliament, we discussed the report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 heard two data. The first data given by the Government or the Ministry of Finance that the deficit or deficit of the state budget in 2014 is $13.2 billion, or 4% of GDP, and on that same day, the State Audit Office, which audited the state budget, told us that it was not true, that the deficit of the state budget is 5.7 and 18.8 billion, respectively, which points to a difference of 5.6 billion kuna. The data presented by the State Audit Office was also attached by the Committee for Fiscal Policy of the Croatian Parliament. That deficit of 5.7 and 18.8 billion, respectively, is the data he said I did according to the ESA methodology. So, with financial indicators from EU Member States that speak about state finances data that again speaks of 18.8 billion, I have little to say that the CNB said Pilateovski found that on the one hand the data presented by the government according to the national methodology is 4% of gross social product and, on the other hand, it concludes that this data is 18.8 billion according to the ESA. It is incomprehensible for me that the professional public, so as well as the rest of the Croatian public and we MPs in the Croatian Parliament, cannot precisely define the lack of the state budget in the Republic of Croatia. With me in my technical profession is one hundred centimetres, 2014 and 2008 and 2015, it can always be neither 99 nor 101 cm. So I don't understand how today we can't, with 100 percent certainty based on a professional, reasoned debate, say what the deficit of the 2014 state budget really was. This seems very important to me so that we can continue to talk about other data from the state budget because it's not a small amount of 5.8 billion kuna, 5.5 billion kuna, how much the difference between these two data and which are still not clear for me to the end. On the other hand, I also wanted to come forward to point out one very important information that spoke about the Croatian economy, and above all about construction, about what interests me in the first place. The CNB report notes that the reduced gross value added in construction by 6.7 in 2014 compared to 2013. This data, it is a very large decline, but it is already relying on a number of years ago in which activities in Croatian construction fall, the amount and investment of investments. Thus, in these five, six years that preceded this year in Croatian construction, about 53,000 fewer employees in Croatian construction. Why did I point that out? I pointed out it for reasons to show that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has stopped numerous investments in the public sector during these crisis years, because this is exactly what the report says, that this decline is the gross added value in construction primarily conditioned by reducing investment in the public sector. The former government not only reduced these investments in the first place in a way that reduced the amount of investment financed from the state budget and that seems to me at annual levels about twenty percent, which then clearly resulted in a decline in construction activities. But numerous investments in Croatia have been stopped on the other hand. I have already mentioned this a hundred times in this Parliament, the Pelješki bridge, that the government has stopped investment in the public sector, and in the first row of road construction has not found a substitution in other areas, even though it has announced, for example, a large investment cycle in energy. Then I remember well there were announced numerous investments in the first row of HEP and on the construction of HE Kosinj, on the construction of Plomin, Omble, 4 hydropower plants on Saba, etc. etc. And to that end, the government then reached for a rather unpopular one, I would say by a harmful measure, which in 2012, when it announced the boom in energy investments, increased electricity prices by 25%, which at the annual level of Croatia's electricity industry allowed additional revenues of around 2 and a half billion kuna. It was right to expect if we had already increased the price of energy, if we had increased the cost of electricity by 2 and a half billion that the government and two and a half billion would have converted into the investments it had announced. However, we have witnessed that investments in the energy sector have been nothing, that no new investment in energy has been made, and on the other hand investments in the rest of the public sector have been stopped, that is to say, road construction. I remember that on this trail was the amendment of the Law on Public Roads when the Croatian highways of 60 June were reduced to 20 June, and thus Croatian highways were additionally thrown on their knees because the government took away around 950 million kunas, gave them to Croatian roads and HZ Infrastructure, and neither did Croatian roads increase investments in the construction and maintenance of Croatian roads, nor did HZ Infrastructure make any significant investment that could increase gross domestic product. Not only that, but I must say by the way that HZ Infrastructure did not make one very important project, and this is the construction of the Long Selo – Križevci railway, where around 160m euros were provided from European funds, which would certainly encourage construction, and on the other hand, boost GDP growth. But that investment still hasn't been realized today. I'm afraid by the end of this year she won't be realised, so then she stays and doubtes what with those funds if they're not small. I say, somewhere a billion and 150 million kunas that could have been invested in that sector, and that would have stimulated the construction sector. And the third thing that has also encouraged me from this report is the government's relationship with the former government towards housing savings in the Republic of Croatia. During the morning, I was replicating my colleague Mrak Taritas, and we in the Croatian Democratic Community club have warned many times during the past term of office about the poor, guilty procedure of the government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to stable savings. I argue that from the beginning of housing savings in the Republic of Croatia to this day there has been no more favourable way of financing housing loans than just credit through residential savings. The average interest rate on housing loans is between 3 and a half, 4% which is the most favourable credit in Croatia. On the other hand, the risk of repaying these loans is the smallest, somewhere around 0.88% of what people believe in housing savings and through housing savings is in Croatia since it was founded over 4 billion kunas of housing loans. We were taking these data out of the facts to show that if they return 2.6 kuna to the state budget on 1 kuna from the state budget given to housing savings in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, every kuna of the state budget is more than double returned to the Croatian budget through numerous activities, primarily in construction but also through other activities that are accompanied by residential construction. Despite these arguments, the government changed the House Savings Act three times in the past term in such a way as to first reduce it from 750 to 500 kuna the amount of annual incentives to 5000 kuna per citizen of the Republic of Croatia to save in housing savings. Afterwards, the same incentives were lifted so that she could see for herself that it was not a good correct move. In 2015 we returned these incentives, which I hope will continue to be an intensive building or purchase of apartments through residential savings. I wanted to point out to these two elements, this is what I end up with, Mr. Vice President, that with this policy of the previous Croatian government it is important to stop investment in construction. This led to a decline in investment, and clearly the number of employees in the construction sector. And thus a clear and reduction of GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3975	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bačić, you see, we have adopted two reports in this House of the High when it comes to 2014 and one is on the implementation of the state budget, and the other is the report on the work of the State Audit. Now, whether we vote on the report or we take note, this is the third document that is different from what we warned the government about when adopting and the budget and the 2014 budget report. But I'm glad you brought it up. I mentioned it in one segment of the debate on behalf of the club but it's a good thing that you explicits emphasized it, so it's not interesting to anyone that the CNB in its report or information showed what the actual deficit was in 2014 and clearly distinguishes what we were saying all along that the withdrawn funds from the 2nd pillar of retirement can currently be some income but in the future it's a cost. According to the ESA 2010 methodology, it can only be recorded below the line and does not reduce the deficit of the state budget. And second of all, they're famous guarantees. Remember, in the 2011 budget when ESA was not loaded in 2010, all possible and impossible guarantees and agreements with the European Commission on shipbuilding restructuring in order to show up as large a deficit, however, it is very interesting that this government, according to its amended methodology, did not register any guarantees given to HZ Cargo as a deficit of the state budget. And this government document now, I say, whether voted on its acceptance or receipt, is a definitive confirmation of what the deficit of the state budget was in 2014. However, the biggest tragedy is that we have become a member of the EU and it is precisely known by both the methodology and how state finances are being managed. Very interestingly, they probably laugh at us in Brussels when they get one piece of information from the ministry. Governments, one information from the Institute of Statistics, and the other is the accompanying documents made by some other independent institutions and la Croatian National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3977	Replica response, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3978	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Shuker, we seem to have adopted two different reports on the implementation of the state budget in June or July last year. On that day, we determined when we voted on the report on the implementation of the budget submitted by the Government to the Parliament that the deficit of the state budget was as we had already said 4% of GDP and on that same day we voted on the State Audit Office Report on the implementation of the budget which spoke about the second data. So I really don't know what the exact deficit of the state budget is today. I tend to resort to the State Audit Office Report more than to the Government, especially if such a report is based on the ESA methodology. And when you're talking about these illogicalities about recording incomes or the fictitious revenues of the state budget that were going on, and even in this part where you mentioned the 2nd pension column, I would remind you of a strange asset transaction when the CERP bought the JANAF 24.5% of the shares of the JANAF, for that, the loan seemed to me from 600 million kuna and some million kuna, and that was the income of the state budget. It is not clear to me how it is that one state-owned firm buys shares from another state-owned company and that it becomes the income of the state budget at that time. So much for transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3979	Thank you. Second replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3980	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You mentioned your colleague's savings-credit cooperatives or savings banks but here you are the savings banks I'm going to savings-credit cooperatives that are much more important at this point, you pointed out some kind of a say as positive things or what should be normal for you. So imagine now that FINA, for example, does not consider our FINA a duty to interpret or verify the existing law on amendments and amendments to the law adopted on 30 September 2015, which is the Consumer Credit, Change and Supplement Act, which means not half a year has been passed. I was still talking about it, and Mrs. Tierelli asked me, no matter what the money flow is, whose money is being placed on our fellow citizens, and how much interest there is because they are variable, dissipable, the FINA continues to enforce our fellow citizens regardless of the law passed. So the institutions themselves don't respect our law, these are the problems that our citizens have, too, that we're here for. And what's good is nice to point out but what's bad is forgotten. So we have thousands of already owned properties that are owned by these foreign savings banks, foundry associations with our own lawyers or what I know with whom. So our institutions have to respect the law to protect our fellow citizens, that's the basic problem. And those kind of exceptions that are positive is positive for the future. But now our fellow citizens are on the verge, some have lost their lives, raised their own hands, destroyed families are much bigger problems, and that's what we owe parliamentary deputies to urgently stop from the government, ministers, the CNB, no matter, FINA, it's important that we respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3981	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3982	Thank you, Mr. President. We are talking about two different things, I was talking about the need to keep the housing saving system of Croatian citizens, which primarily enable young Croatian citizens to come up with the most favourable loans, housing loans to address the most important issue of life, which is one of the most important issues of life, which is the issue of housing. In this regard, I have criticised the numerous decisions that were contradictory in the past term which were on the trail to stop, i.e. the issue of housing loans through residential savings, because often these loans were intended, which proved not to be true and that indeed this system had already been designed and not only, which is not our exclusiveness of the country of central Europe, the Czech Republic, Poland, Austria have significant savings of its citizens right through residential savings that encourages and purchases the apartment but also what is more important private houses, their construction, construction, equipment, etc., which then contributes to a clearly complete system either in construction or any number of supporting activities that are connected to construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3983	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Governor, with an associate. The Croatian National Bank reports to the Croatian Parliament twice each year according to the Financial Status Act, the state of the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy, and it is now before us. And everyone has their own position, but it is impossible to discuss this report without having a debate here, as my colleague Bacic had just talked about certain segments of the financial market, and I agree with him about housing savings. And in the end, it's a good thing that the incentive system stayed. I hope that this government will keep it, too, and perhaps improve it, given that I appreciate that the real estate market and everything that has died unfortunately in the construction sector in the last 7, 8 years since the crisis came to Croatia can be encouraged by such models to move forward. So it is good to see these reports and that the Croatian Parliament can discuss it. What I would like to say is that, with this reporting, the Croatian National Bank has a certain role to play in society and in cooperation with the Government on certain topics that are critical for both our economy and our citizens and, in some ways, within its powers, it can act together with the Government and try to help the economy and Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, in the last year, I have not been most happy with this collaboration, i.e. with the way the CNB reacted at a critical moment and this is the moment that we all know that in Croatia, the problem of the Swiss franc that we had to and finally solved. By getting rid of it, you can see by the amount of users who decided to convert their loans from the Swiss franc to the second currency, so the vast majority of people decided to do it and eventually benefited financially from it. But the way the CNB stood up for me at one point was not acceptable. So there was one pressure I would say to both the government and the public through a warning that it would endanger certain stability of the entire monetary system, the financial system, and that the cost would cost 8 billion kuna. And this is the information the Croatian National Bank officially gave in September 2015. We now see from the data that Croatian banks provide in their financial preliminary reports for the past year that this cost is much less. So it was either the projection the CNB made or the banks had a slightly lower cost or didn't report all the cost. So from what you can see, at the loss of Croatian banks in the past year that they have expressed and it's about about 4.7 billion kunas, not only, of course, it wasn't just the cost of conversion but what they specifically said for the cost of conversion that that cost of conversion was below 6 billion kuna. So between five and six billion kunas. The biggest loss had a ZABA that had a billion and 560 million kuna. These others who had a little less credit, or Hypo Bank had something more, these others had something less. All together last year, according to preliminary data, the Croatian bank had a loss of 4 billion and 700 million kuna. And now the fundamental question is whether it should be taken into account and whether it is necessary to take a positive look at the sympathy of the Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia who is concerned about it and who is sympathetic to Croatian banks and their loss in 2015, especially when we consider that the Croatian banking system in the period 2008 to 2011 was the biggest crisis in Croatia, when we heard it. Lovrinovic's over 200,000 people lost their jobs when GDP fell from those Mr. Lovrinovic spoke over 13% almost 11%. So during that period, Croatian banks and of course other financial institutions in the Republic of Croatia had a net profit of nearly 19 billion kuna in the four crisis years. In the period 2012 to 2015, the next four years, when we include this loss from 2015, that profit was about a billion and 800. And now it is looked at how and in what way, I am sorry that there is no former Finance Minister Shucker who overlooked me at the beginning of his second term of crisis that was rolling around the Swiss franc, what was the state's relationship to the banking sector in one period and another. So when the biggest crisis the banks have drawn out of Croatia 19 billion. I speak from Croatia because most of this money in foreign banks' profits is 19 billion kuna in this past four-year period when we tried to correct that injustice with certain moves and return to the citizens a part of the money that I think is false and a product that was not supposed to be on the market at all again, the banks did a positive job in those four years, and I don't think they should be sympathetic to them and that the finance minister has no need for such statements. I know they might get something, they're missing in the budget, but it's much more important that money comes back to Croatian citizens. So my objection is, although this is the 2014 report but it is going according to CNB procedures in 2015, where the support to the Croatian government was left behind in terms of solving one of the biggest problems Croatian citizens had due to the banking sector. On the other hand, what I would also like our governor to be like the governor of the Central European Bank, if he had such an image, a montivian image that simply gives and tries to part of the money that the CNB has within its own and profits and reserves and everything that it has, that it gives to the banking sector in order for our entrepreneurs to have a cheaper source of funding. It's also missing. Now we've been seeing the last few months of announcements that something will activate and activate. But again when it was critical, when the money was missing most in 2012, the 13th and fourteenth banks were very few credits followed by our companies, and the CNB was left with significant measures. And we had to do it as they say to cross with HBOR. It's amazing to me that the state budget had to pay HBOR money in order to, for example, leasing has banks in kunas and that these loans would be for leasing 2.3% for our entrepreneurs. Those measures, I think the banks were directly able to negotiate with the CNB. And that's why I think that except for the stability of prices that are important, but there is no support for citizens and entrepreneurs. And on this side, I also take the right to have a reservation according to this report, and I think I will do just as my colleague Maric from HDZ will do, and I will be reserved, and I may not even support the report by the CNB for 2014 because of everything I say the circumstances that have been happening and that are happening with the bank. I would also like our governor and bank leadership to have a status like that of the governor in the United States, where there's a salary that's twice as much as the president of the United States. It can't, and it's my position since a year and a few days ago, I couldn't influence it, but the governor of the CNB can't have almost twice as much pay as the Croatian prime minister. That level of responsibility and I would say what is being done both towards society and citizens is not comparable. So Janet Yellen has a salary of $200 and a few thousand, the President of the United States has 400. Of course all these bankers who work on the market there have millions, 5 million who work at Merrill Lynch and such institutions and that this one is ten times more powerful than they are. But that amount paid out of the public budget is what it is. So it must be in Croatia. And that's why I'd like to think that if we change or supplement the CNB Act that, with these financial reports, we're also going to get reports on the business of the CNB to see what incomes, expenditures, that we can discuss this. If we are discussing the revision of the Croatian Olympic Committee or something So I think an institution like the CNB deserves to complete that data and that parliamentary representatives and the public see it that way. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3985	Thank you. This debate ends this first part. We'll continue after break at 15.00 hours. It's 13,29 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3986	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We have two replicas of the presentation of fellow Maras. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3987	Thank you, Mr. President. So, counterpart Maras listed several things that happened in the functioning of the CNB in the meantime, which were in some ways problematic especially in the section relating to solving the problem of the Swiss franc. In this context, he mentioned a figure of just over 4 billion kunas of bank losses compared to the estimated nearly 8 billion. So we'll see what happens this year. Maybe that loss is even bigger, maybe the banks will register some losses this year. However, what is certainly an assessment of the CNB that these losses will destabilise the financial system definitely did not stand. We started working together to solve the Swiss franc and then in the second phase of our colleagues from the CNB and the governor made a little turn that of course did not maintain what could really be the result of solving this huge problem for a huge number of Croatian citizens and families. And one more thing these days we hear that some associations of citizens who have defined certain things that can be called the cost of citizens and related to the non-transparent determination of interest that almost goes up to these high amounts of 6.7 billion kuna. Therefore, banks cannot fail at all. And resolving the Swiss franc would in fact in no way burden banks to the extent that they question the stability of the financial system. That's what I had to point out, and it was one bad assessment of the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3988	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3989	Thank you very much. As I said in the debate, a colleague of Greece is that banks have earned 19 billion kuna net profits in the period 2008-2011 and that they have also earned 2 billion kuna in the next term of 2015 with this calculated loss of Swiss franc. So, it's not about anything other than that, unfortunately, the CNB decided to side with the banking sector at the time when we passed the Swiss franc law, and that's why I, as a former member of the government who supported this report now as a parliamentary representative because of such actions and reactions by the CNB, cannot support this report to the CNB. So, if you were primarily to protect the interest of the banking sector, if you were to warn of a potential problem that did not end up with a lower cost and no instability occurred, the Croatian Government could accept the CNB's arguments and give up the Swiss franc-conversion Act and ultimately the citizens would have no use for it. But lucky we didn't decide to listen to the CNB's guidance because in that case, if the banks might have 4 billion kunas more but Croatian citizens would have 4 billion kunas higher costs. Now some citizens are assessing who was right, who did the right thing, and I, because of that reaction, cannot support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3990	Thank you very much. And we have another replica, the esteemed representative of Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3991	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Maras, I share your thinking that it can't be when it comes to who loses, who gets we can't generalize, and it's especially good that you stress the impact, or the results of banks cumulatively in 2008 and by 2014 it's 21 billion kuna. So, according to which losses are listed for this year or perhaps next year, it is necessary to cumulatively say that citizens have a clearer picture. I mean, to get along better with the CNB and her governor sitting here today, I'm glad he's here and not last year his deputy came in, so he got away, didn't he? I'm really glad that's the way it is today. And when you're talking about it, nobody cares about it, in this country there's got to be a stable banking system and everybody can make a living, but let's make a living on the economy and make everybody richer than they are today. I have one question for you specifically, you've been acting in the past term, you've been a part of the government. I followed the media in the negotiations of Minister of Finance Lalovac with the CNB in the case of Frank, and I couldn't fully understand it from the media, so please answer me in the negotiations that you directly conducted with the CNB whether it was a proposal for a solution that you were really looking for, or even for me, it seemed that you had an even better solution and maybe you couldn't do it because of the non-compliance of the CNB, or maybe I was mistaken. So can you tell me anything about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3992	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3993	I personally did not participate in these negotiations, you will have to ask a colleague of Lalovec and Greeks about the CNB. I may have had some informal conversations but there were other proposals, yes, which unfortunately did not accept banks at the beginning, although it was an initial will but obviously when the banks estimated that they might have a back up let's say it like that, rather than when they saw the reactions and the CNB publicly, they might then have decided not to accept some solutions that might be better and more timely for the state, so I think at this point both for the banks and for Croatian citizens. So we had this clean situation like the government that the CNB stood firm behind us, if it hadn't held the reserve position, maybe some solution could have been brought before what happened at the end. But that's the way it is, you have to have a Chinese wall between you and the banks, if you work at the CNB. You can't go by events. And even this one, I'm going to mention now, I think the Prime Minister ended up in Kitzbühel for nothing. So it's a UniCredit event, he organizes it, everyone can pay for their sleep, but in addition to sleeping, there are all kinds of other things, you have a little skier, you have a little party in the evening, hanging out. A Chinese wall between banks and CNB. No convergence of this type certainly uses the trust of Croatian citizens to protect the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. So I would recommend to the governor in the future less of those parties with the bankers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3994	Thank you very much. And now we have the last individual debate, the distinguished representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3995	Thank you, Your Honor. Here I want to look back at the Annual Report of the CNB for 2014 because it shows a lot and shows that at that time when we were talking about what was going on in 2014 we were right, now in 2016 and we're going to stop. Well, here's the report that the CNB itself wrote down, that's it. their representatives. Economic activity during 2014 in the Republic of Croatia has largely stagnated and has remained at a low level since the end of 2013, resulting in a fall in real activity of 0.4% at all levels in 2014. That's the first sentence of the report. Furthermore, the central bank has sought to improve funding conditions and encourage domestic lending by maintaining the stability of the nominal exchange rate towards the euro as a key prerequisite for maintaining financial stability. What do they say next? Bank profitability indicators in 2014 are well below the levels considered to be good even though they have improved slightly compared to 2013. Profitability has violated growing losses in bank credit portfolios. At 2014 level, the gross domestic product in the Republic of Croatia actually decreased by 0.4% due to the strong fall achieved at the end of 2013. In that year, only Italy marked the fall of Croatia. The 2011 kuna GDP review was 332 billion and 587 million kuna. At the end of 2014, it was calculated in the amount of 328 billion and 431 kuna, we do not know the 2015 data and when we put it in this increase, which is said for 2015 of 1.6%, the question is whether we reached the level in 2011 and we were constantly presented that we are a very, very successful country with the former government. The number of registered, unemployed persons at the Employment Service has been greatly reduced, but this was primarily due to the increased erasure of unemployed persons from the Croatian Employment Office records due to non-compliance with legal provisions. That's what we've been talking about here for days, days. But we were assured that employment was, in fact, the creation of new jobs and the increase in employment that was not really there. The general government's deficit was 18.8 billion in 2014. We were convinced here that it was somewhere at 14 billion kuna. The general government's debt continued to grow, reaching 279.6 billion kuna or 85% of GDP at the end of the year. The total international reserves of the CNB on 31 December amounted to 12,687 billion euros, which is 219m euros less than 2013. The average annual inflation rate slowed from 2.2% in 2013 to -0.2% in 2014 that was said by counterpart Lovrinovic in the deflation section. There are 4221 ATMs in Croatia. The number of cards of all kinds 8 million 333 thousand. Annual ticket traffic of 117 billion kuna. To compare ourselves with other countries, their way of life, their citizens, we really get ahead and in that, at least that's what I think and experience. Every Croatian has, every Croatian citizen has at least 2 if not three cards. In doing so, 94.88% are credit cards on behalf of consumers and only 5% are business cards. That's one picture the CNB gave himself about himself. And now that question I wanted to talk about and I'm going to talk about how an ordinary citizen is experiencing the CNB and what he thinks about it. I can't have any objections to this report, over 300 pages of the report, thousands of numbers that we can't question at all, we believe them, and it's beautifully analyzed. But what about the citizens of the CNB? I talk to citizens a lot, we talk, and they say. It's the institution's fault for all our troubles. They have a role, the only role to play in protecting the exchange rate of the euro against the kuna, especially at the end of the season, or when the tourist season is over, when the course starts to grow slightly, they buy some of these foreign exchanges, and this is the role of the CNB over the past 20 years. I'm talking about ordinary citizens, because they can't even have this report, and unfortunately I can't talk about it. What do they think? They mean, of course, what kind of picture is created in the media space about the Croatian National Bank itself. They say the banks in that bank have good salaries. They say that hedonism is not their side, i.e. That they like to enjoy, that employees are well paid for a job that is invisible to them. They know about that big building that's impressive, but it's just that the only way they come out of that building is if they're in trouble is if they come in front of that building like the citizens who had credits in Swiss. They say they sold our gold, we don't know when, we don't know who, and we don't even know what's going on with it. We've been fooled by someone in Swiss, and we've been cheated especially through the loans we've raised at Raiffeisen Savings in Austria. These are the most basic information citizens and always the culprits see in the Croatian National Bank. Because really when we talk about it, the question is, who's to blame for that picture outside? Whether the CNB using its resources, or the possibility of a media presentation, managed to remove such a picture from itself. I'm telling you, this is your dominant opinion of the citizens of the CNB. I believe there are ways, that there are both resources and persons who may be able to remove such a picture from the public. I'm not making that up. I say, far from that, this report is very correct written in everything you do. However, your citizen, an ordinary citizen, doesn't know it as well as the Parliament. If we're not here, everyone's lazy and they're doing nothing. That's the kind of picture that goes out in the media. That doesn't have to mean that. However, let us remember the entry into the EU, the basic two concepts that interested Croatian citizens, who were the moment they voted to join the EU. That's what we discussed recently. Free funds from EU funds, let's say we call them so free, but come on, we'll pay less, we'll take more. That's where we're going to create our own development, and we're going to do something. Another thing that interested the citizens. When we enter the EU, we expect that we in charge of loans to get at least the same conditions in terms of crediting as citizens in the EU, and indeed people expected that there would be a reduction in interest and that these loans would become cheaper so that they might be freed from the possibility that through the credit programme we could create some additional opportunities to continue to invest separately on the coast, on the islands, in the construction, in the development of tourism and that somehow we live cheaper. But apparently that didn't happen. We missed the opportunity with the EU funds, and apparently it shows that we also missed this report with credits. Because I come from the island of Rab, I will now describe the situation and the CNB is the Croatian National Bank of Raiffeisen's savings. When you ask people who live in that problem, I ask them how many of you are there. One says 200, the other says 6 hundred. That's not small. That's 10,000 people. We don't have credit records, we don't have the number of users of those loans. Everyone speaks their numbers. Associations that deal with their protection throw out their own. The CNB is dropping its numbers. So we live in a time when we can't find out the real truth. I know that citizens themselves are afraid to say that they did something like that. But what happened there? How is it possible that someone in a suitcase from Austria can bring 100,000 euros, cross two state borders, and no one asks him anything. Contracts are signed which by 2013 the CNB itself says they had no right to operate in the Republic of Croatia or through intermediaries. And then it comes down to whether these intermediaries were paying some kind of tax on representing these cooperatives and if they were, then it's all legal. You've got a lot of pressure from these owners right now on those savings banks to collect their claims, but they're doing it the wrong way. And if we had a consensus here, when we came out of arbitration with Slovenia, when the Swiss course was fixed, when the law was passed on the conversion of loans from Swiss to euro and with some more topics the Croatian state went forward and the problems were solved and they did not seem insolveable. We now have another group of citizens and these are these citizens where everyone's consensus is also required to get out of this problem Thank you. [[/The President's incursion: Time's up. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3996	Replica, distinguished representative Penic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3997	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Boris, the report is written so that everyone has the right to their interpretation. I think the banks have made good money, and the economy and citizens are squirming in trouble. The banks ran the exchange rate policy well. At the beginning of the year was 7.63 at the end of the year 7.66. Foreign reserve's growing. You said yourself that the CNB lives well, that they even accuse them of hedonism. However, when we scratch a little bit, we look for growth. Debt of the general government, debt of the central state, social security funds and local states. Public debt was created with growth at annual level, so that in 2014 it fell by 4% and the internal and external components fell. The growth of the internal debt of the central state continued at the annual level. Public debt at the level of local units also fell only now slightly less so that at the end of the year there was an 8.2% drop. The state of total state guarantees, here we see that there is also a continuous decline at the annual level. You yourself explained that there was no economic activity. What am I worried about, though? I'm worried about how we're gonna get this 10% annual interest rate up how do we handle it? In addition to low economic growth rates, negative public debt risks remain the problem of fiscal consolidation and the relatively high cost of public debt service. According to the finance ministry, the total expenditure of a consolidated central state for payment of interest is 10 billion. How are we gonna handle this?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3998	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u3999	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, here's what interests me. We've all heard all the debates today and perhaps for the finale to say that I would like the governor to tell us now that he's finally coming out to tell us what the CNB promises that he can do for our citizens if I say as a policy, as has been followed by a consensus in some of the issues so far we show that we can achieve this consensus and then what the CNB can do for our citizens, and especially for these people who are damaged when we talk about Raiffeisen savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4000	Thank you very much. Now the final word will be given to the esteemed governor of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4001	Dear MPs and MPs thank you very much for the debate, for all the remarks, there were many of them. I'll try to systematicize them in several areas so I don't get too long. I would start with Mr. Maras's remark that no longer exists that it would be good for the governor to have an image as a representative of the European Central Bank who has done something for the Croatian economy. I must say that I have such an image and I have where there is Mr... But often man is not a prophet in his own village. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you know, the CNB has been leading the only anti-cyclical policy all this time and everyone abroad will say that there was no such policy of the CNB crisis in Croatia would be much deeper and Croatia would certainly end up in the IMF and the European Commission programme. That didn't happen. Nor did we have a banking crisis exactly and thanks to this kind of CNB policy. Several things, the first to mention is a deflation with the claim that it is not price stability and that the CNB data speak here and now that there is a deflation in Croatia. First, it's not CNB data. It's the State Statistics Office. The CNB cannot have inflation data because it aims at price stability. So we download data from the DZS. What does that data say? That we have a slight drop in prices. What's the problem when we have deflation, potential economics? Three possible. The first delay in consumption by consumers is in the expectation of a further drop in prices. So you're not spending today expecting prices to drop tomorrow, so that deepens the recession. Is this happening in Croatia? No, I don't. Why? Because consumers cannot delay the consumption of food and energy, and these are the two components which are priced at present in Croatia. So certainly there are no negative effects on aggregate consumption from the fall of these components. In fact, it is good for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian economy that prices of food and energy fall. This is one of the reasons why we achieved higher rates of GDP growth in 2015 than expected. A strong drop in primary energy prices. Why? We are net importers of energy, not net exporters that we have to worry about the decline in oil prices. That's good for us. Another reason that deflation may have negative effects is the growth of real interest. However, it is not a problem in Croatia. The share of expenditure on interest in consumer income available is reduced, not increased. Same as the ratio of credit and income. Therefore, there is no effect of deflation on debt. If you look at the share of paid interest in the available income, it drops from 6.5% to 4.5% in Croatia. Therefore, there is no problem, and we can be content to see the price as we see it. Croatia is concerned with a positive shock of offers that improves the conditions for exchange of Croatian economy. For a unit of Croatian exports now we can get more than one unit of imports. And that's good, that's not bad. And we can be satisfied with that. The second thing is the expansion of monetary policy. The objection that monetary policy is not sufficiently expansional and that it is necessary to look up to the European Central Bank. The monetary policy of the CNB is more expansional than the European Central Bank. The share of surplus liquidity in Croatia is 6% of GDP, in the euro area is 2.5 times lower. The balance sheet of the central bank of Croatia in the process of GDP is greater than the balance sheet of the European Central Bank. Croatia's monetary policy is more expansion than the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. That's the facts. We can't talk unless we understand the basic facts. What we have additionally introduced repo operations that have been mentioned on multiple occasions has been made more so I would say pompe than can really be an effect. So we have already created so much additional liquidity that with these repo operations everything we want to support the current, greater demand for kuna loans from those for European loans by giving banks on the passive side of the balance sheet more long-term kuna sources. The interest was $568 million. The banks won't take the money unless they have someone to place it on. So we can do whatever we want while the obstacles are on the side of the rankings, they won't just take them. We do weekly repo surgery by half. You're interested in 100 to 200 million kunas. As long as they have no one else to place the surplus, they won't take it. When we lower the minimum reserve rate, we secure liquidity to banks 0%, 0% each. Their opportunity cost is holding money in the CNB at 0% higher than giving at an average interest rate of 5% to businesses. And what are they doing? He's being held in the CNB. Why? Because companies are creditworthy. Do you know what interest rates they receive from good companies in Croatia right now? Two to three percent. This is the interest rate at which good companies in Croatia are in debt today. Those who can't get credit at all or get credit at higher interest rates. And those are the problems we need to solve. Bad balances from the private sector. If you compare interest rates in Croatia, the average rate of interest and correct it for the country rating, then you will see that in Croatia the interest rates in Croatia are lower than the country rating, i.e. what the country forecasts to be, lower and not more. That is why I am in favour of introducing a guarantee scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises. The CNB won't print any extra money for small and medium-sized enterprises. It's gone, no selective credit policy. That was the last time in Yugoslavia. But such a guarantee scheme is the only thing that can ensure the transparency of monetary policy towards businesses. Why? Because such a scheme can compensate for what does not exist at this time and why money does not go towards businesses, which is a lack of capital and collateral. That's what I suggested to Minister Maras when he was a minister and said it was useful to lend small and medium-sized enterprises, we talked about it. And that's what I'm proposing today. Otherwise, there is no passivity of monetary policy towards these companies. He doesn't give HNB credit, they give banks. And banks don't have like the distinguished representative Sincic said private money, private capital. They've got it, but it's the stock capital of their shareholders. The rest are citizens' deposits. It's not their money, it's the citizens' money. And they have a responsibility to invest those money in such a way that they can return the deposits tomorrow. Otherwise, we're running out of trust in the banking system and we're having a financial crisis and we don't want to. We don't want to dig through banks to the point where we're causing a banking crisis. It's terribly expensive. Which brings me to some observations about the banking system. For years I listened to the remarks why we privatized the banking system that we needed, I didn't privatize it, but when I came to say for this pay phone, then I listened that we should keep state banks, that the state banks are much better and then Croatia manages them, gives credit to those who need it, etc. I've been listening for years to see how we were supposed to look up to Slovenia, you see, they've kept state banks and you see how much better it's going there. And what happened? All these Slovenian banks failed, as did our banks when they were state-owned. And that cost the Slovenian state a direct fiscal cost of 10% of GDP. And even more at indirect costs. We have a state bank, a Croatian postal bank which now operates well with surplus operating profits, which is on the market-capitalised which is a great success. He wasn't so experienced in public but a great success. The third bank in Europe has ever been authorised by DG Competition by the market capitalisation and which has succeeded. However, we had to recapitalize the bank twice as a state bank. So if the state banks were that good, then we'd learn that already. However, history teaches us exactly the opposite. They better be private. What's the role of supervisory? It was mentioned how supervisory gives one of the bankers credit like that. Well, don't do a supervisory job like that so banks can ask a supervisory team who to lend to. Every day, the credit committee of a bank in which the management of the bank decides on whom to lend credit. And no one asks the CNB, no one needs to, no one exists anywhere. What's the role of supervisory? The role of supervisory is to protect the stability of the banking system to protect deposits in the banking system, so that people can be sure that they can take the money to the banks otherwise your system collapses. That's what we had. Therefore, it does not determine the minimum capital ratio of banks, the minimum capital that they have in relation to the risks they take and periodically verify whether banks maintain that capital adequateness by assessing the risk of their placements and excluding it from capital. Friends of the CNB banks what we're talking about! So you witnessed the attack on the HNB's fierce banking sector when we increased reservations, through politics, through the media. All the channels attacked us. Why? Because we've increased the reservations they have to hold. Why did we do that? By doing its job standing between depositors and the risks the banks are taking and thanks to that, 56% of bad discounts are now reserved. It was 40%. It will continue to grow and thus make the banking system stable, thus ensuring that the Croatian taxpayer will not have to pay the costs he paid in the 1990s or what Slovenian taxpayers have paid for the past two years and will pay for years. Part of our banks are still part of the public debt, and we are paying back the costs of bad banking business and bad bank surveillance. Why do international reserves cover 9 months of imports? Why don't we look up to Slovenia, the Baltic countries? Well, because those countries are in the euro zone. We haven't yet. The moment Croatia enters the euro zone, we will no longer have to hold such reserves, but we are not yet in the euro zone and it will take some time to enter. I've been explaining the last two days as much as and how, and to get in there, we have to do our homework, we have to make structural reforms that will allow for the reduction of the share of public debt in GDP, and that's what everyone tells us. That is what the IMF says, the European Commission also says, investors who care about their money say. None of them remember mentioning monetary reforms, all mention structural reforms and fiscal adjustment. And then we'll be able to reduce the international reserves and we'll do it. Why was the long-term repo now and not in 2013 and 2014 at stake? There are a few reasons. First and 2013 and 2014 as from the beginning of the crisis, monetary policy has been extremely countercyclical. So she was creating a huge surplus liquidity already and then. But why not long-term repo? Because we were still in a recession situation back then. At that time, the bank's net pass was bigger than the net active banks. So there was a danger of further deleveraging banks, the amount of capital abroad from ensuring long-term repo operations to the banking system. At the time, we still haven't had a surplus like this on our current balance sheet account. Therefore, there was a risk of this affecting the deprivement of the exchange rate of kuna, and then we did not have the demand for kuna loans that we have today when, for the first time, kuna loans grow faster than euro loans. That's why. That's why you're in surgery right now. But I've been talking from the beginning. It is not a silver bullet, nor will it solve Croatian problems, nor will it solve deeurisation. She's got other problems. The eurysis originates as I explained here in '65. Year, '65 reform. the year when people are allowed to have foreign accounts in foreign currency in domestic banks, the open border of Yugoslavia and monetary policy has been poor with constant devaluations. And people have lost confidence in their domestic currency, which makes sense. You won't be saving into a currency that you think will devalue. And we can't achieve deeurisation as long as people are afraid that tomorrow's currency will devalue. So who goes to save in the domestic currency if we keep telling him that currency has to devalue. We cut our own legs and narrow the space for me, the CNB to run monetary policy with it, and then we call it the same. So how? How do we do that? The way to deeurisation is a credible economic and fiscal policy in which people will have confidence and a urban appreciation of the exchange rate of domestic currency, as the depreciation has led to euroisation, so deeurisation can lead to the city's appreciation. So when people see that the Kuna will grow stronger, they'll go to Kuna, and if they think they're going to lose weight, then they won't go to Kuna. And then the banks won't have anywhere to pay the kuna loans. Payments and employment at the CNB. I don't like to speak pro-home sua, I say, but I asked my colleagues in the EU what their salaries are, so let me just say that my lowest is in the EU. And as for where it's paid, it's not paid out of the budget, it's not a budget category. Employment at the CNB is all public tender, all of it. So we don't name people, but they hire themselves in public tenders, and that's to ask whoever you want very honest and very rigorous competitions that are best chosen. And that's why the quality of the people in the CNB is so good. Swiss franc. I've always said what I think about the Swiss franc, so I'll say it again. In 2005, I said what I thought about Swiss franc loans. I said I don't think that's good, that people take risks they're not aware of, and I'm the only one who said it in public. No one supported me, no one supported me back then. No one said about, so if there's a Wolfie right we're going to back him up, that should stop. No professors from the Faculty of Economics, no MPs, no media. Why? Well, it wasn't popular. Well, those were the most popular loans, the lowest interest rates. When I said that the moment I became unpopular, everyone attacked me. The Wolf wants to deny people cheap credits. They wouldn't listen to me, so what happened happened. In 2015, he wouldn't listen to me again. I wrote, the CNB wrote on 20.01. the week after the appraisal of the Swiss franc report and put on its pages, very detailing the causes, the structure of the problem of the Swiss franc, possible solutions. We delivered the report to the Parliament before voting on the law very clearly which shows the structure, possible ways of resolving, etc. I explained to anyone who asked me, politicians, bankers, the Franak Association, I explained to everyone what possible solutions were and what could be the consequences of individual credit solutions in Swiss francs. I cannot say anything more from this pay phone because it is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. There are legal proceedings against the Republic of Croatia at this point, so I won't say anything else. But time will show, as time has shown if I was right in 2005, it will show if I was right and 2015. I'm not running away from it, I won't be a general after the battle. I said then and now that you needed what you needed. And I'll stop at that. We never claimed that it would endanger the stability of the financial system, we wrote on the website and still said it would not compromise. And the Croatian financial system is not compromised, it is stable. That's what I just said in front of the TV. Loss, 7 billion kuna. We were right. Banks booked 7 billion kunas according to international accounting standards. 4.7 billion kuna is the loss of the banking sector. Why? So because they had 2.3 billion kuna operating profits. Budget cost, very simple. Profit tax and dividend tax. That's what the finance minister was talking about. Crediting Austrian savings, which is why I think the esteemed representative Tyrelli said nicely that the CNB has nothing even though it was called. Foreign borrowing is legal. If those savings were working under what's-his-name. With a unique passport – single passaport then the CNB would monitor them. But they didn't work. These are loans concluded in Austria which everyone can do and what many people in Croatia do on a monthly basis, they take loans abroad. We're on a single market, and that's possible. Any bank can come to us today, from the Croatian banks, turn into a business that has no more capital in Croatia at all. We can have any bank from the EU opening a business here under a single passaport but it is not supervised by the CNB and cannot be amended by the law so that the CNB can be supervised because it is a European regulation. Therefore, there is no solution to that. We'd love to, but he's gone, he just doesn't exist. The gold was me thinking the same thing. Just to tell you, a man should be careful about that sort of thing. If we had, for example, the gold that we inherited from the Bank for International Alignment in Croatian Reserves since then, the Croatian budget would have received a billion kuna less payment from the CNB. Why? By 2011, the truth would have had two billion kuna profits that would go into reserves according to international accounting standards and according to the CNB Act, and since then, it would have eaten the entire RDG, the entire HNB account from the basis of which we would have 800 million kunas less and 200 million kunas less than the bonds in which these money was invested or what we earned on them. Therefore, the budget would not profit but lose from it. There's a lot of stuff now, how much longer do I have? Five minutes. A few things about me I mean important issues, the harmonisation of monetary and fiscal policies and the domestic debt markets to be constructive. These are important things for the future of Croatia. Monetary policy and fiscal policy must be harmonised. The task of monetary and fiscal policies is to act countercyclically. What does that mean? When the cycle goes down economically, when the rate of GDP growth begins to fall to prevent a strong fall. Monetary policy could have done this because it was restrictive before the crisis. So we had a very restrictive policy until 2009. And then we could start firing from 2009 to today and have this countercyclical effect. This is why Croatia did not end up in the programme, which is why Croatia was not managed by the IMF and the European Commission, but was able to conduct politics on its own. That's how monetary policy bought time de facto. For what? For structural reforms. Because in the end, it is only those who can raise a long-term potential GDP growth rate. Neither monetary nor fiscal policy will raise your productivity will solve structural issues of efficiency of the state administration, poor business climate in Croatia, inability to invest, legal uncertainty. These are things that have to happen if we want to see faster GDP growth. But then we'll have a more efficient monetary policy because then all those money that's being created will be able to move towards the economy. Monetary policy at the moment provides domestically cheapest state funding. But the risk of the state with this public debt and rating is still very high and we have to work on it. It won't solve monetary policy. The domestic debt market and public debt management are mentioned and must be improved. I absolutely think we need to work on a gradual deeurisation of the same state debt. Bank limits towards the state are not yet such that banks could not finance the state. But there's a danger of application... of 1.1.2018 of the treatment of kuna bonds with a currency clause as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it comes to that, and hopefully it won't and we're trying and we're fighting for it not to happen, it could cause bank debt to the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not going to go into any details right now. I can talk about that tomorrow if you're interested. In conclusion, I would like to say that this debate is always very useful and one of the ideas of the CNB is now to invite representatives' clubs to the CNB to discuss certain topics. So when the Parliament does not session that you can choose the topics that you want to discuss with us in the Croatian National Bank with presentations, with explanations, any questions you have. I've spoken to a fellow Finnish governor, they're doing it in Finland, and he says that the co-operation between the Parliament and the central bank there is important since they've had that kind of communication, so here's all the representatives' clubs, and then I announce that this is our idea, and I hope that we will keep this dialogue and deepen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4002	Thank you very much. But it still looks like the urge is for replicas. Well, she's the first one to be a respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4003	Thank you very much. Here's a few remarks on the governor's exposure. So first of all, you said it's only now possible to provide banks with source in kunas, I don't see why that wasn't possible in 2015 and 2014. What you did, you did in 2012, in '13 when you released a certain part of the bank's reserve but all these loans were tied up in euro. So I don't see why it hasn't been possible to do that in the past few years. Maybe the man gets a little activated when the furniture changes and then new ideas come up. But then we should, we should also suggest to the prime minister that he doesn't talk about small and medium-sized enterprises when he's talking about a fund that will be set up for them right now from that money that you've provided. Secondly, the Swiss franc and what you said in 2005, unfortunately, did not produce fruit, which we all now have from what you said. Maybe it would have been more effective if the CNB had talked about it every day, if the governor had talked about it. That banks had an obligation on credit agreements that the CNB could give them the obligation to write on credit contracts that it was a high risk product. You didn't do it all, that, that, whether you said something in an interview somewhere, the citizens or didn't see it or didn't have any of it. You could have done hundreds of other things in the CNB that would have alerted the citizens to dangers and that. And the third thing about pay and receipt. I know, I happen to be here right now while you're saying it and googling it, the Slovenian governor says that the policy of their bank is that he can't have a governor's salary more than the president of the state. It's not like that in Croatia. And I'd like it to be the same in Croatia if you'd stick to it. Unfortunately, you set your own wages. And as you have 35 or 40 thousand kuna, you can have 100. And no one can deny you that right. And one more thing, after you're Here's just one sentence. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4004	Thank you very much. You've said a few sentences more. Here you go. [[All right, O.K.]] The Honorable Governor will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4005	Just very short on the loan. So as far as the loan is concerned, we've had what I said very... politics but we've been working on the active side of the balance sheet, so we've been working, the active side of the bank balance is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reserve that was immobilized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you look at the ratio of what we were doing with the balance of the Croatian National Bank which was... as I said from the European Central Bank, we also worked on the bank's balance sheet by firing the minimum reserve rate and creating large liquidity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only that, we had two programmes with HBOR and two programmes with HBOR in which we were giving HBOR funds that unioned loans to businesses were just about to reduce the risk of crediting small and medium-sized enterprises. Unfortunately, that was limited to success, I don't have time to go into details right now, but I can send Parliament an analysis of the success of that program and I can tell you why I think this way of the guarantee scheme would be better than the one we had with HBOR. It's primarily because there wouldn't be a transfer between banks and HBORs of bad placements and loans. As far as the Swiss franc is concerned, I've been talking, I can't tell the others. But if you ask me only in such a situation, what is effective is to prohibit such things. I personally think that only for the population sector should housing and long-term loans be allowed in kunas and euro. All in all, there were many countries and loans in one and the Swiss and the warnings but nothing helped. And a pack of cigarettes when you smoke says that smoking kills, so people still smoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4006	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4007	Thank you, Mr. President, very briefly. Well, Dr. Wolfie, at the end of the day, everything really seems to be living in two worlds, you obviously in one that has nothing to do with reality. For us, the economy, the population is on the edge of the sink, young people are running out, public debt is growing, etc. You still paint the whole situation in bright colors. On the other hand, if I were you, I'd fight for the institution, for the data, for the explanation, and it's perfectly natural. But I expected in part two that there wouldn't be so much beauty. You've even given us a lecture, you need it in one section because you have more information, but there are people here who are extremely well understood about the work you do. But please don't scare us like the last few months that because of the transition of using more kuna, there will be a return to inflation growth, that we will return to Yugoslavia. Spread the use of the kuna, do not suppress it as it has been for the past 20 years and so it has been. You and the previous governors have been convincing us for 22 years, it's been going well, you've done well in that, in one false stability. There is no stability in this country. You have assured us and now you assure us that the course is such a cornerstone of the economy it is a corrupt and thermometer that shows nothing, which reflects nothing. He's showing a fever. Put it outside, plus 15. Winter comes -15, he plus 15. Come summer plus 30, he shows plus 15. Let us stop being slaves, turn monetary policy in the right direction to support the development of the economy, national interests, or domestic economy, competitiveness. But obviously it won't be possible with the present state of affairs, so monetary reform is the necessary thing to do to simply remove this false notion of stability from our eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4008	Next, here's the answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4009	... I'm not scaring Yugoslavia at this point with inflation. [[Specially enabled.]] I said that removing the currency clause of the policy of depreciation of the domestic currency and monetary financing of budget deficits would mean returning to Yugoslavia. That's exactly what we had at that time and we know how it ended, it ended very badly and the macro-economics and the banks went bankrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4010	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4011	Thank you very much. First what to do. Surely the passing of monetary policy will not happen in itself, the guarantee scheme is necessary, I absolutely support the governor in that. The tragedy is we didn't do it. How we do can we use European funds, smaller and medium-sized enterprises yes. The property of the state must be one of the instruments. In the shortest time I will propose, on behalf of the reformists, one interpretation of the government's conclusion that it is going because it is necessary immediately. Secondly, of course, only a reduction in the share of public debt in GDP sees the case of the inclusion of pension funds, IPO, HAC and others transfer to the private segment part of the debt to reduce the cost of structural reform total to. That'll make less reservations safe. What doesn't? Swiss franc, the role of the Croatian CNB is not the role of passerby who shouts the robbery is the window. It's the role of a police officer who needs to be prevented from robbing a window. So, regardless of what the current governor was then speaking as deputy in the Parliament did nothing and his crime remains, there is no dispute about it. What's dangerous here? It's dangerously undetected, but it's dangerously said that only a graduated appraisal in my court doesn't give God a chance to lead to positive shifts perhaps in the minds of citizens to go to predominantly kuna loans. It would be much smarter to ban at all long-term anything other than kuna, than to build that trust on an appraisal. For our exports are in ruins as well. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] We really don't need that, and it's a dangerous thesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4012	The Honorable Governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4013	... who warned of that calling for it, for the Swiss franc. [[Specially enabled.]] And as for the ban on euro loans, I wouldn't go there. Then there won't be any, or it'll be much more expensive. It's just the way things are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4014	Dear Representative Ivan Sincic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4015	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vujčić, on my thesis that the money is private here we had in this House a month ago a discussion about the second pension column, and it was debated whether the money which, therefore, bonds are paying into that pension column was their private property or not private property or private property with delayed availability or something fourth. In that sense, the taste of my thesis was that, if I have a million kuna on savings in a bank I can't decide where that money will be placed. It's not my decision, it's the bank's management's decision not to tell the bank owner. It was the taste of my thesis and it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4016	No answer, thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4017	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Wolfie, you said a little while ago about gold, problems. It turns out that it is better for Croatia to have no gold, leverages like other countries have than no gold. So you say in 2011 that Croatia would gain 2 billion kuna on it you said. What would be 10 years from now for you? Can you predict? If a billion are now lost in those four years I predict, here's the experts now calling me to make 10 billion kunas. What do you mean, it's a folk treasure, by which referendum? Who gave the real Minister of Finance? You were supposed to do the same then... All those in the political arena. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who gave the right, what referendum? Who gave power to someone to sell the gold that is ours, all of us, the peoples. And you say it's 2011. 2 billion kuna wins, now they'd lose a billion, and in 10 years, who knows what's gonna happen to the gold. After all, it's gold, honey, you know it a lot better than I do. Second question, as far as your salaries are concerned, you mentioned. So you can set your own rewards for your helpers. So you're the state of the country. So we Parliamentarians here are exposed here because of our work, and okay, the people have chosen us. We are also responsible to this people. And it really raises the question of how many of these institutions are in Croatia where themselves and their assistants and their co-workers determine the height of their salaries? There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4019	As for gold, therefore, gold is precisely the problem that gold is essentially something, a kind of property where it terribly fluctuates the price down below. And it's kind of speculative investment then because it's really impossible to say at this point where the price of gold will be in a year, in five or ten years. Nobody knows that. However, if you have gold in your reserve structure, then you must be prepared that one year your profits will increase and the transfer of the Ministry of Finance will not be at all next year because your change in the price of gold will eat it. But that's not exactly the way it is, and that's why we would have losses, so the Treasury would get less money than this because, according to international accounting standards, the evaluations and the CNB law go into reserves, not the distribution of the Ministry of Finance. So the Ministry of Finance can't profit from that. Because of this, for a central bank of a state like Croatia, it doesn't make much sense. The primary supply of gold in its reserves, so there's a lot of banks that don't have at all, there's banks that have a lot, those that emit reserve currencies, so the international currencies that others hold you as a counter item in the balance sheet of gold, and then it really makes sense. I don't know about that. This fact that we determine our own salary stems from the independence of the financial central bank. And I'm saying she's not a budget category.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4020	Thank you very much. We've finished the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. So we'd end up working for today, and we'd see each other tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. the usual time. Session interrupted at 16.10 p.m. We now have the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2014. The report is submitted by the Croatian National Bank. The debate is closed. Yes, here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4022	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, I would only give one objection, I think we have agreed that the vote on the Annual Report for 2014 will go together with the amendment of the Law on the Croatian National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4023	The agreement was here in the Parliament to refer to the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. That committee said we should vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4024	As far as I know, I think he gave the opinion that he was going to the Finance Committee to give his conclusion... voting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4025	So, I'm going to read the conclusion now. The Croatian Parliament, as the most representative body, has the right to decide and vote on all reports of state bodies and institutions, without prejudice to the independence and independence of certain bodies of institutions that have an independent and independent work of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the law. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget is invited to consider the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2014 and to propose a proper conclusion to the Croatian Assembly. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget as a parent body did not discuss this report because it was discussed by the same Committee in the previous term which he proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2014. The government had no objections to that report, so I don't see... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the HDZ Club, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4026	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I do not think it is at all controversial for the Croatian Parliament to reach its conclusion that the state audit should carry out the control of the business of the CNB and we do not need a change of law for that. So if that's what we want, that's what we can suggest. I think we just sort this out because look at those who blackmail us and credit ratings give us this negative grade. So I think I don't see any reason why you're dragging this around. Or if MOST colleagues think they shouldn't vote, we won't vote on it and we won't vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-03-0.u4027	Then obviously the situation is that I suggest that we postpone the decision on everything together so that the next time we see each other, we see what happens to everything, when the conditions come to pass. So respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to conclude the 2nd session of the Croatian Parliament. I'm closing this session. I wish everyone happy Easter holidays to you and your families with a great deal of peace, pleasure and we will meet at the next session. Thank you very much. When the conditions are met. [[/Intruder: When?]] The session is closed in 15.10 hours. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking you to take your seats and get started. Here you are, the esteemed representative of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
