ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u247	I'm looking for a break from Mr. President on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU and the Independent List of Stipe Petrina. I would like to address citizens in connection with corruption in the judiciary encouraged by these recent events in front of the County Court in Sibenik and the City...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u248	So if I may interpret you're looking for a break to turn around?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u249	Yeah, I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u250	Ten-minute stop. No one else longs for a break, so thank you very much. So I'll take a break by 9.45. Okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u251	Okay. It's 9:00.35.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u252	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Dear Representative Stipe Petrina asked for a word on behalf of the HSU club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u253	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, greetings to colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs. Namely, prompted by the latest events in front of the Municipal and County Court in Sibenik and the citizens' protest for illegal or even more difficult qualifications of the work of the County and the Municipal Court in Sibenik and knowing that the Rijeka Resistance at all costs wants to at least prevent the once-in-a-time entry of judges into the Rijeka Municipal Court and unfortunately having an extremely rich experience with the Croatian judiciary I want to talk today about lawlessness, corruption and much more difficult qualifications of today's situation in the Croatian system, I want to talk about concrete names. I am appalled as a member of the Assembly Committee on Justice, which is at the first session of the Assembly Committee on Justice, which is an institution along with this honorable House, which determines the direction and policy of the Croatian judiciary and of the Croatian judiciary on my initiative to discuss concrete names in the Croatian judiciary that violate the judicial authority and which greatly violate independence and independence as gentlemen from the judicial authority wish to present themselves. They are not independent, nor are they independent; yet they are highly dependent, and worse, they are a very corrupt strain. It is the most corrupt strain in Croatian society that affects all other corruptions in other segments of the Constitution on which the Republic of Croatia rests, i.e. the other two authorities, legislative and executive. So, when I wanted to open that topic on the Parliament's Justice Committee, literally all the board members had their tails crossed. Dear gentlemen of the Parliament's Justice Committee, that's very sad. But to return, I repeat the events of an 82-year-old man who was appalled by the behaviour of the County Court did what he did in front of the County Court in Sibenik, I can tell you that in that court, I am sentenced to two cases that have nothing to do with sound intelligence, with the emphasis that both of them have fallen to the European Court of Human Rights. With this act, the Republic of Croatia has been damaged even for more than 10,000 euros at no cost, 10,000 euros specifically paid to me as a citizen and is still expected to violate the rights of personality an extremely large fee from the Republic of Croatia. The mayoral court in Sibenik, along with part of the courts of the Sibenik court, by which the gentlemen are parliamentary representatives, are well-known to you, so I'll list them. I'll start with the Sibenik Municipal Court first. Let's say the Sibenik Municipal Court, in my court, justifiably there is a reasonable doubt that it is highly tied to the structures of power by political means, that it is tied to the criminal municipal state attorney's office in Sibenik, which is governed by Mrs. Irena Senečić, whom I clearly say is corrupt by other people who protect these structures of power. So, first of all, I would like to highlight the judges of the Municipal and County Court who are justifiably suspected that they are of a very illegal nature. First of all, I think of Mr Krešimir Krnić, who committed the same crime, allegedly, as well as Sabo, so he influenced the election results. Penalty has been filed, nothing at all. The State Attorney's Office, under the auspices or management of Irena Senečić, rejects this. He speaks much worse crime than Mr. Sabo did in Vukovar. I'd like to say in one particular name, Maya Shupe. Maja Šupe is the judge of the Municipal Court against which I have filed several criminal charges against which I cannot be dismissed. This is the person who freed or condemned Mr Tomislav Horvatinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u254	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u255	Wait a minute, sir. Okay, so these people who are encouraged by judges and motivated by judges of the County Court, all 13, so 13 judges of the County Court in Sibenik, all 13 were caught in illicit activities. From banal cases to the worst crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u256	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u257	No problem, Mr. Chairman, I'll be going, but I'll probably go tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Unfortunately, five minutes is very little room to talk about the part of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u258	You've already gone too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u259	All right, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u260	Thank you very much. Here we will continue with the point that was envisaged as the first, so the report on the work of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2014. Good morning, everyone! I ask you to take your seats and we continue on our agenda as planned. Therefore, the first point today will be - Report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest in 2014 Reports for the Committee on Conflict of Interest pursuant to Article 30. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and by the Committee on Justice. You received their reports at the session. The government also delivered its opinion. Does he want a representative of the applicant? Here we will continue with the point that was envisaged as the first, so the report on the work of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2014. The applicant's representative will further explain the report. Here you go, dear Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, president of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3598	Dear MPs and MPs, the Commission's 2014 report testifies further progress in building the commission as a relatively young institution in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In 2014, only the second year of the term of office in which the Commission acts as a permanent, independent and independent state body. The statistics on the number of public sessions held and on the number of cases resolved, as well as on the number of training held by officials at local and regional level, concluded that in 2014 the priority was also to further develop systematic practice in the application of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. The report describes problems in the application of the law as well as how the Commission interpreted and applied individual institutes. Based on experience gained, and in particular on the decisions and practices of administrative courts in the Report, proposals are made in the legislative body in which direction and in which way it would be desirable to upgrade individual procedural and other rules. In view of the sub-capacitated human and technical resources at the time of entry into office of members of the new Board, the Commission paid particular attention in 2014 to their strengthening. Human capacities are strengthened by the employment of three advisers, a graduate lawyer with a passed judicial exam. Technical capacities are strengthened by an information project. This project meets part of the recommendations of relevant international organisations and institutions, in particular GRECO from the fourth report in evaluation circles but at the same time the objectives and measures set out in the new Corruption Prevention Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament in February 2015. I point out that in the nature of things, the way the new Commission calls on it is significantly different in terms where the Committee is institutionally acting as a permanent and independent state body compared to the way the previous committees were working, whose members did not carry out their duties professionally. Through practice and experience in solving individual cases from the Commission's competence, work processes have been developed which are then incorporated into the information structure. The way in which these work processes are related to the information programme for office operations is considered one of the most important results of work and the value of the legacy of this calls on the Committees to some future members. The information project has developed an office business programme, electronic input and output records, automatically deploying and assigning individual objects to work, designing an electronic file, designing electronic eyewitnesses to monitor the course of the subject and the time limits of the operation, and has established an internal network that accesses data and shared documentation. A register of officials has also been established, a form of the report on the property status of officials in electronic form and a new website of the Commission has been developed. The information infrastructure set is a necessary basis for further upgrade. Before this call, the Commission did not carry out a systematic verification of the data from all reports submitted on the property situation of the officials. This means that all the reports submitted before February 2013 have been published on the Commission’s website without presupposing the law to carry out the procedure of previous or administrative checks whether the form of the report has been properly completed. This situation stems from the fact that after the entry into force of the new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, the selection of members of the new Committee is not prescribed within the prescribed time limit. Therefore, the Commission did not act during 2012. So the received property reports prior to their publication on the Commission's website had no one to check. For this reason, reports submitted before February 2013, there is a certain discrepancies in the scope of the data provided by individual officials, i.e. some officials, presented all the necessary data and some of the officials simply left empty or incorrectly fulfilled. The new electronic form of the report has been developed precisely on the basis of experience in the administrative verification of whether the report has been properly completed. The electronic pattern generates numerous advantages and savings. First of all, there is already an electronic record in the electronic reporting system, so it is no longer necessary for the Commission's office to hand over the data from the property cards to the information programme through which these data are publicly published on the Commission's website, which reduces the workload of staff and significantly speeds up the public publication process. Unlike the previous written error pattern in the published data from the electronic report, only those which the officials themselves type in the electronic form are now reduced to. Therefore, errors were excluded in the administration of data from written reports that often stemmed from illegible manuscripts. The data shall be displayed in the electronic report in a strictly default manner enabling the search of the database by category. The law stipulates that each report submitted is subject to a check which includes, in addition to this administrative, a regular check. This is the data verification carried out by the comparison of the data reported in the employee's property statements with that of the property held by the tax administration and other state bodies. A regular check of the conditions and capacities with which the Commission had available prior to the information project was carried out by sending a written letter to certain state authorities requesting certain information available to the State authority and thereafter waiting for an answer. How, for a comprehensive regular check of data for one official and members of his family, individual written correspondence must be sent to a number of addresses, it is clear that in this way regular systematic verification of all officials cannot be carried out. Since the method of sending individual letters can only solve a small number of cases in practice, this has been the case with regard to the applications received or certain knowledge which refer to a possible breach of the provisions of the law. That is why the long-term objective of the Commission is to develop IT tools that will enable automatic verification by connecting and comparing the databases with which different state bodies exist. In this respect, the information project implemented in 2014 was only the first step. I point out this as a very important and measurable result of the work that has been done so far called by the Commission. In line with the objectives and actions of the new Anti-Corruption Strategy, the Commission plans to continue to develop specific IT programmes, but it is necessary to allocate the necessary resources for these programmes in the budget. The new solution for office operations has been implemented since 1 January 2015, and the new website has been implemented since 15 January 2015 when it entered into force and a new form of Report submitted in electronic form. Another important result of this conference was achieved in 2014. As part of the project of information, it was established and publicly published on the website of the Committee of Officials, as well as the register of managing civil servants. The responsibility and obligation of the Commission to establish this register is also prescribed in the first Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties since 2003. The establishment of this register was also adopted as one of the measures of the 2008 National Anti-corruption Strategy Action Plan. However, for the establishment of the register of officials it was necessary to correctly interpret the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, but as well as other relevant laws relating to each category of public officials. Since neither 10 years since nor the normative introduction of the conflict of interest in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the register of officials has been established, and there have continued to be a number of doubts about the status of individual public officials, this Chamber's meeting has decided to take a proactive approach, respecting the possibility that interpretations and conclusions of who is considered to be the official to whom the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest do not reflect the right of the legislator. In doing so, an important role in assessing the correctness of the Commission’s conduct has been the case-law of the Administrative Courts. In administrative disputes which so far were against decisions of the Commission in which one of the issues in question was the status of officials, the Administrative Courts interpreted that the lists of competent authorities, i.e. the lists of the Croatian Parliament, the Government and the President of the Republic of Croatia, which were supplied to the Commission within the meaning of Article 52(2). The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest does not have the meaning of a constitutional act which, under the provisions of this Act, is based, amends or abolishs any right or obligation, those lists constitute only an auxiliary instrument, i.e. a form of information to determine whether a person is an official who is to be subject to the rules of conflict of interest. Administrative courts confirm that the Commission, as an independent expert body, also has the power to interpret the law, because otherwise, because of an inaccurate circle of public officials to whom this law applies would question its application and implementation, and thus the achievement of the purpose that this law seeks to achieve. By means of the procedures implemented, the Commission sought to define the reasons and criteria to describe the legal term of appointment as an officer referred to in Article 3(2) of this Act in order to give to the competent authorities and thus to the Croatian Parliament guidelines and criteria to be taken into account when assessing whether a single designation is to be considered as appointing within the meaning of the officials, given that the law does not provide for the definition of this concept. The report also presents difficulties in the structure of the register of officials arising from the existing conflict between certain provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and other laws, but also in the way in which the Commission solved a particular conflict of legal norms. I point out that the structure of the register is not a one-time act but involves the permanent and proactive action of the Commission as well as the appropriate cooperation of different institutions and bodies of the authorities. The register of officials is subject to permanent and frequent changes not only in data on the identity of specific persons acting at a certain point in time, but also in terms of catalogues of public duties covered by this law, and thus the competence of the Commission. In particular, it is important to note that, in the context of the conduct of the procedure under its jurisdiction, the Commission has observed that the applicable provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests do not cover an important and large circle of certain public duties with which the behaviour of which is naturally linked high corruption risk. In the light of the work and competence of the body itself, and in particular with regard to the powers with which the holders of those public functions in those bodies may dispose. The Commission noted the need to expand the round of officials when considering the new Corruption Prevention Strategy and to submit proposals for a corresponding action plan. The items of conflict of interest in 2014 began with a decision to initiate proceedings against the Assistant Minister of Finance. The importance of this procedure stems from the legal basis of initiation, and in particular from the legal basis of the final decision as well as the complexity and content of the case itself. In the first year of the term of office, the Commission initiated only those proceedings in which those infringements of the laws could be imposed on officials in accordance with Article 42. This approach stemmed from the low level of familiarity found by officials with the basic obligations arising from this law, and it was logical and necessary for the systematic practice of the Commission to begin to develop from the simplest subjects and to address the least controversial legal issues. However, the Commission considers that the purpose of the law cannot be achieved by establishing only those infringements for which the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest explicitly prescribed the possibility of imposing sanctions. Promoting good practices and building standards of behaviour expected of officials can only be achieved by clearly identifying those situations which are not. In 2014, the Commission began the practice of carrying out the procedure for breach of ethical principles of public duties in which a determining, or declaratory decision is taken. Such decisions describe the specific facts and circumstances, i.e. actions or failures to which the official has violated one of the ethical principles of action. In such decisions, however, officials are not subject to sanctions for established injury. The Commission considers that it is precisely such decisions that ultimately can contribute significantly more to the understanding of conflicts of interest, and that it has a stronger impact on the creation of an effective preventive framework than are those procedures and cases in which officials are given administrative sanctions for non-compliance with the rules and restrictions of the prescribed Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. The process of such an upgrade began precisely with the case of the Assistant Minister of Finance. In addition to the infringement of the principle, although infringements have also been found in this case, which have led to the fact that the Commission has imposed a maximum legal sanction on the official, it does not in any way reduce the importance of this case as one of the first cases in which infringements of the principle or infringement of ethics in the conduct of public duty have been established. The competent authority of the Commission for the implementation of such procedures shall be laid down in Article 30(1). The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, i.e. a provision stating explicitly that the commission is competent to initiate conflicts of interest and to decide whether a certain action and failure of an official constitutes an infringement of the provisions of this law. I would like to remind you that the provisions of the law explicitly stipulate the principles of public duty in Article 5 of the same law. The implementation of procedures establishing a breach of the principle is in line with the purpose of the adoption of this law, and the Commission considers that it is also in line with the views of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in its decision of November 2012. In that decision, the Constitutional Court adopted the views of prominent constitutional experts on the fact that the powers of the commission as a supervisory authority in the preventive sphere of the fight against corruption must primarily focus on promoting good practices and only in parallel on repression. In accordance with such interpretation, the publication and statement of findings on the existence of a conflict of interest should be the upper limit of the powers of such a body. Since a potential or possible conflict of interest in which it has not been committed, and one of the banned activities of the officials cannot impose sanctions such as sanctions cannot be imposed either for breach of ethical principles, it merely indicates that a certain act or failure is not in line with the behaviour that is expected of the individual official is in conformity with the competence and purpose of the commission. The Commission shall promote the idea that the principles of action set out in Article 5 of this Act are also one of the explicitly prescribed obligations of officials. Respect for the principle prevents the use of public duty to achieve private interests and thus to prevent corruption in the full and true meaning of this word. The integrity of the body and the institution represented by the official and the trust of the citizens depends on the preservation of its own credibility and integrity, as well. In the proceedings under its jurisdiction, both during the day of opinion and in matters of conflict of interest, the commission has given these general ethical principles concrete content. It gradually builds easily recognizable standards of good practice. Experience shows that the more attention is paid to respecting ethical principles, the less forced measures will be needed in the long term. In a society that is truly sincerely focused on preventing corruption, public opinion must condemn any situation in which an official uses the rights and powers that he or she has as an official for purposes and in a way that does not give him individual rights and powers. Given that in the report of the 4th evaluation round GRECO, in addition to the recommendation of drawing up the Ethics Code for Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the importance of establishing a better dialogue between the Croatian Parliament and the Commission, in particular in matters of building a culture of responsibility by officials, and GRECO also argues that in this respect the commission shows a proactive approach to this occasion, I also propose to consider the need or usefulness of holding round tables or informal discussions on issues and topics arising from the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest either within individual committees or other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament or in some other less formal way. In the proceedings under its jurisdiction carried out in 2014 the commission confirms its objectivity, independence and impartiality and professionality in its work, I therefore hope that the Croatian Parliament will adopt the report submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3599	Thank you very much. We have a replica of your presentation by distinguished representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3600	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here I am just going to be replicating the principles of Article 5(3) and how they are interpreted in that article. "Employees must not use public duty for personal breakthrough or perforation of the person associated with them. Officials must not be in any relationship of addiction to persons who may influence their objectivity." It's actually such a term that would put us all on pedestal rollouts by you. The same is true in Article 5(3), although there is no conflict of interest in the pronunciation of the president of the state which has given her money to the former party. So the campaign money gave the former party and there's no conflict of interest, but what's there? The commission wants to discuss how the president was transferred to the media during the last year actively decided on whom the money would be paid and attended the donation. And it's a crime scene. A crime that wasn't really described how it affected her, how she decided it. And I don't think there's absolutely any right and the possibility of a commission that in situations like this when there's no possibility of punishment, there's no firm evidence that she's been convicted of working with an ex-party that she shouldn't have. So co-operation with the former party of all the presidents in the political world in the government's trio exists, that they are located, debate, speak, teach all important details for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3601	Here, thank you very much. Here, the Honorable President of the Commission, Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3602	I must point out that in this case only a decision was taken to initiate the procedure. The decision was made publicly available on the Commission's website. There can also be read legal basis but also an explanation of the reasons for which the Committee is called. No other or further comment can be made given that the procedure is ongoing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3603	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Court of Justice, the President, the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3604	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, the Honorable President of the Committee. At the 1st session held on 17 February 2016, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2014 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest in the act of 29 May 2015. The Committee shall be a Report in accordance with Article 81. The Rules of Procedure discussed in the capacity of the home body. In its opening statement, the Presidents of the Commission stated that during 2014, the Commission held 42 sessions, made 117 decisions to initiate the procedure, 98 final decisions in matters of conflict of interest or violation of the law, totalled 4781 thousand kuna and gave 122 reasoned opinions, 37 reasoned arguments. The Commission also made 35 decisions not to initiate proceedings against officials and 109 conclusions and to notify applicants. It reported on the implementation of the information project, which provided the Commission with a transfer of ownership over programme solutions. The application of the law establishes an electronic form of the report on the property status of the official, setting up a register of officials. The register of officials, other than the statutory legal obligation, is also a measure from the Action Plan with the National Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption. The established information programme will be developed through specific information programmes to compare data from the submitted property reports of officials with data available by other national authorities. The President-in-Office's statement that the existing legislative framework is not sufficient to carry out the procedure under the authority of the Commission. She pointed out the fact that the Croatian Parliament did not submit a list of persons acting as officials. The Croatian Parliament's failure to act has raised the question of reaching the application of the law. An assessment of the regularity of the Commission's conduct in the procedures of determining the conflict of interest of public officials without being warned how they are covered by the law will have legal practice of administrative courts. In some matters of law enforcement, the Commission acted in a way that took the power to interpret the law. The president stressed that the procedure under the Commission's jurisdiction is not clearly prescribed operating deadlines, advocates a future normative solution that would arrange for the officer to commit violations of the law within 12 months of the day of termination of his public office. The president also pointed out that the initiation of proceedings against conflicts of interest or infringement of ethical principles in the conduct of public duties in which some of the provisions of the law were not violated constitutes an upgrade to the development of practices in the work of the commission. In the work of international cooperation in the area of conflict prevention, the president recalled the recommendations of GRECO on the adoption of the Code of Ethics in the Croatian Parliament. The members of the committee in the debate supported the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. In particular, they praised the practice of publishing the opinion and decisions of the Commission in certain cases and highlighted the usefulness of such practice by contributing to the predictability of the Commission's behaviour in similar situations in the application of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. They stressed, however, that there is an objective problem of different media monitoring and treatment of individual cases in which the Commission decides, with cases of relatively small importance coming into the first plan very often. In relation to the problems facing the laws of the Commission, the Committee members praised the practice applied by the Commission when it changes its legal understanding with certain types of cases where the Committee of Law bound by law informs them in advance of a change in its legal understanding by calling on them to adapt their behaviour to the amended legal understanding. This led the Commission to accept the doctrine of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, according to which the judgments of the courts should not be the result of the late development of judicial practice in objectively determining the content, meaning and attainment of legal norms. For example, the Constitutional Court Decision of 25 April 2013 published in the National Journal 57/13. The Committee also pointed to the problem of legal definitions and definitions, which include the concept of public duty and therefore also the circle of officials covered by the law. For example, the leaders of sports alliances, fire communities, the Red Cross and the like. The hearing on the Report raised the question of the legal basis of the interpretation of the Commission under which officials are obliged to submit the report on the property situation and on the expiry of 12 months from the date of termination of their public duties and which arise in the context of the prescribed duration of the obligation to restrict after the termination of their duties. It is proposed to continue to improve the work of the Committee and in particular in the area of collecting data on officials so as to enable the Commission to collect data from relevant databases on its own to the greatest extent. By respecting the Commission's legal obligation to publish its decisions as well as the need for transparency in the work of the Committee, the Committee has challenged the publication of decisions on the non-starting process, which attracts public attention although these decisions have in fact found that the assumptions for the initiation of the procedure have not been met. Some members of the Committee have been troubled by the authority of the Committee for Interpreting Law, taking into account that it can be required by the Croatian Parliament to give authentic interpretation for the sake of clarity of the legal norm and taking into account the fact that the law is generally interpreted by courts. Furthermore, the Committee members have recognised in particular the efforts to increase the efficiency of the Commission's work through an information project in particular. The Committee members were interested in the reasons for the change in the information service providers, the cost of maintaining these IT solutions and the system of storage of officials' data. The President of the Committee explained the need to obtain the goods and services described, citing a reduction in long-term costs, increasing the possibility of changing the service provider as well as the fact that the Commission has become the owner of all software solutions and thus data on officials who are being stored over you own servers in the Committee. In this context, she pointed out the initiative to allow the use of a new IT system to collect data on judicial officials. The debate continued with the proposal of the members of the Committee to examine the necessity of submission of the property card exclusively by electronic means. However, the President of the Committee expressed its concern in the light of additional experience to enable and submit property cards in writing to make this process less effective and more insecure, and to undo the savings achieved by the development of the electronic system. In particular, the members of the Committee indicated the need for the Commission to act with caution when it is on its own initiative to initiate and decide on the procedures for breach of the principle referred to in Article 5. The law, therefore, so that the work of the Commission would not be interpreted in public as political arbitration. Also, the committee members raised some questions from the Commission's practice. As a particular issue, they pointed out the Commission’s practice that the interpretation of the provisions of the law extends the application of the law to persons not explicitly referred to in the catalogue of officials referred to in Article 3(3) of the Law. There are also cases where both the mayors and the municipal chiefs are members of the representative authorities of the county, where the Commission has taken the view that officials in terms of the provisions of the laws already in receipt of salaries receive compensation for a basic public duty prohibiting the exercise of the right under the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Furthermore, a question has been raised on the length of the deadline for the written correction and publication of the Commission and whether the rules of the General Administrative Procedure Act apply in that case. After the debate, the Committee on Justice unanimously proposed 10 votes to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2014 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3605	Thank you very much. I would now open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the HRID's Club of Representatives and Independent Representative Shandoor Juhasa, will take the floor away from the esteemed representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3606	President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected representatives of the Committee, respected colleagues and colleagues. The commission worked well under its limited powers. What I see from this report is that the Commission has certain problems, but for which it is not only responsible. Some institutions that should facilitate the work of the Committee, including the Parliament, have not done so. Others cut their powers, specifically the Constitutional Court and the third did not provide them with, for example, the data they requested, specifically the Tax Administration. The government has not yet answered the question of who all state officials are to submit as such to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. So some people would say that the Commission was only founded because of EU pressure. Even that is an exact claim, as one of the conditions for Croatia to enter the EU is to close that famous chapter XXIII. was just setting up a commission. We have a law on preventing conflicts of interest, we have a commission that works under that law, so why don't we give this commission the powers that they should have. Some will say so the commission can't play "DORH" and "Dorh." Well, I agree, and I don't need to play "DORH" and "Dorh," but we're not Denmark or Finland, so we have good practices, good anti-corruption practices, so the commission serves us only declared. I'd say right now, according to this report, actually, the commission is just reduced to some mere divisional puckers of politicians. So on the one hand, it's the Commission, and on the other hand, it's the ones that the Commission should control and sanction. For example, after four years of office, the official has 300 thousand euros in savings. So how much did his salary have to save? And now the public is wondering, well, why doesn't the Commission check with the IRS how much they've been receiving officials and documenting this huge savings. It's not a problem with the Committee, and it's not a problem that the Committee wouldn't check it, because even in Article 24. The law on preventing conflicts of interest, and it says it would check with the IRS. So what's the problem? Well, the problem is simple in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the Constitutional Court repealed the provision of a law requiring the obligation of banking institutions and business entities to, without delay at the request of the Committee of Delivery of the requested notices and evidence necessary to verify the property status of officials. Many of our citizens did not know that the Constitutional Court had abolished it, so they were surprised because somehow it was not accompanied by the media. The Constitutional Court has explained that such power is not in line with the legal purpose of establishing the Commission and in accordance with the interpretation of the Constitutional Court of such powers, the Commission is opposed to the fundamental principles on which the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia is established and built in which the state does not interfere with the Institute of Protected Banking Secrets. The Institute of Protected Banking Secrets, so who is protected by the Constitutional Court? But not just that. The Constitutional Court also repealed the provision of Article 27 of the same law where it was prescribed that if the official does not justify the established disproportionateity, the Commission would initiate proceedings against the officials. And some other provisions were lifted by the Constitutional Court. In other words, the Constitutional Court has cut off the most important powers of this Committee. So what is the jurisdiction of this commission? So, unfortunately, it comes down to checking if the data in the property report are consistent with the property data of the officials. But that's not what it's supposed to be. If we look at the Commission as an independent and independent state body, it was introduced not only because of the pressure of the EU and that chapter to be closed, but rather because of the introduction of a system of control of property that someone had before the conduct of public duties and assets he had after the end of the term of office. Therefore, precisely for reasons to determine whether, during that period or shortly after the official, he acquired assets that he could not justify with his legitimate regular incomes. However, after that decision, we heard the Constitutional Court of 7 November 2012, the Commission's competence remained unarranged. The Commission therefore has only the jurisdiction to initiate and implement the proceedings and to impose sanctions if it is established that the official has violated Articles 8 and 9 of that Act because, for example, he did not report movements of significant individual value or valuable property during the term of office. And now it's a competent commission. But what matters most is that the commission is actually not competent and can't do anything if the data on income, savings and other assets clearly sees that the official could not have obtained it legally at all. To recap, the commission systematically did the work under that jurisdiction he had left. They're past the so-called. Children's disease, teamed up, even solved the information system, I commend that they got it in their possession. But even if they're the best in the world, they can't do anything because they opened Pandora's box, but it's fast and it's closed. While such a register of officials has been made, there is also a problem because the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests says in a collapsing with themselves what is seen from the report but also from other laws. Who are all government officials? Are the directors agencies or not? They say they are not because agencies are public institutions with legal personality, and directors are appointed by the government and then as state officials. I see the commission asked the Parliament about it, but there was no help. It turns out that some, some bodies conspired against the commission, and instead of being supportive, they're making it difficult for them to work. There are even administrative disputes, we've heard which, now I won't even mention, of the status of officials which is absurd. Member of the Council for Electronic Media, Director of HRT, etc. I agree, and I think that Parliament should seriously consider, therefore, the competent parliamentary committee, and in this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, but even in criminal law, should put in place fine amendments and additions, given that income disproportionateness has been established, since the disproportionateness in the incomes of officials is now not at all a criminal offence. That's exactly what we're gonna stand for. Because if the government is indeed, and not for God's sake, it's aimed at curbing corruption, and then it's going to prove to be concrete rather than cheap pulsism. I am in favour of giving support, therefore, to the greater independence and effectiveness of the work of this competent authority, so through the competent parliamentary committee and generally through the Parliament, because while there is no criminal responsibility moral and political for some it means nothing. If we were, like I said, Finland or Denmark, then it would be okay for the commission to apply good practices, but with us, this anti-corruption good practice hasn't even come to life. Then they still need stronger powers. But to be clear, I'm not saying that the commission should have powers like the BOOK or the DORH, but the bohemian should not only have a declarative level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3607	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3608	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Commission. The HNS Club will support the report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interests for 2014, but we want to take advantage of this opportunity and point to a whole series of illogicalities which are otherwise the characteristics of the system as we heard it began to live 10 years ago but to this day we cannot say that we have acquired the level that we, as legislator, would interpret our will and intensity in the adoption of the law, could be satisfied by the end in which the Institute of the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest but also the Institute of the Commission itself, can give the best results in a coordinated manner. What's this about? It is clear that the level of public reputation and this House as well as politicians of all in Croatia is directly and directly embodies with the level of public confidence in what we do and how we behave in respect of the law. It is not to the contrary to mention, or to repeat, that of us as parliamentary representatives, and we are just a small part of what is called public officials, before all other relations respecting the law. It is the legislator who not only adopts laws but also gives their interpretations but certainly must show by example that the norm adopted in the highest legislative body is mandatory for all and without the rest. But it is also the most legislative body that must react whenever it notices that the application of a certain regulation is manifested amongst other things in its shortcomings. For several years now, the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has warned the Croatian Parliament that the legal framework has not been completed and for years we have heard that certain regulations are not only a parent law but also some others that regulate this area in direct cohesion. And this leads to different interpretations, even leading to public reluctances, and even such decisions by the Constitutional Court, which, in some very important elements of the commission's action, bind their hands to the commission. In these 10 years, we can say that there is great progress. And only the commission as an institution and system have recorded certain progress, improvement. We have studied all the difficulties together, but what is most important is that only the commission was built into an institution that looks at all the problems of quality, which uses legally defined tools from Article 5 and further and increasingly does its job better and better. What is certainly necessary is a prominent conflict of regulations on the one hand and their imperfection brings among other things a commission in a very unfortunate situation. It is known that when procedures are launched, the commission must always decide at public sessions, even in cases in which it is entirely indistinguishable whether or not a conflict of interest will be established. And in this way, those who register whether anonymously or by duty or in a third way because the Commission has an obligation to react and given the publicly acquired information actually brings him into a position that embarrasses him and in a later procedure when it is proved that, for example, the conflict of interest was not already a pen pillow. But also on the other hand, the Commission does not have certain powers that could eventually allow certain cases to be completed and sanctioned. Let's just take an example at the end of duty. If a conflict of interest is established and the official is no longer under the obligation to comply with that law formally because his duty has ceased, there are no more sanctions. Which means in practice you can actually do whatever you want but at the end of the term. Of course, it is a cartoon and it is not good, but it is a fact that the Commission's actions over the past few years have not only brought about the problem of corruption in politics but probably a whole series of its decisions, but also opinions, conclusions, and the fact that the public has followed what the Commission has been doing and educationally and instructively especially for those who have come to public service for the first time, who have not been well aware of this subject, who have not been told in time what their obligations are and who have not tried to find out what limits their action and their behaviour must be in order not to come into a position to talk about conflict of interest. One of the shortcomings of our system, among other things, that in the conflict of interest, conflict of interest is declared exclusively a conflict of public privacy. However, there are a whole series of problems arising from the conflict publicly from different levels. With a level, say local regional self-government and state level. I'll remind you, it may have been said several times already, and that is to say, in the United States, there is a whole network of NGOs called Sunlight in a free translation of "things in the sun" that concerns one another and when it comes to the state budget being spent on local projects. And whether a single representative, regardless of whether he was a representative or a senator, sold his vote for budgeting to get some funds into his constituency. Finally, it is a public-private conflict because it is the personal political interest of officials to gain political points and in the next election game to be re-elected, but it is formally a public-public conflict. It is not on the board of Croatian Parliament which has not yet delivered to the Committee a list of public officials and what we can say about this is that the register that has been produced all these years has not yet been completed. The Parliament is expected to be first, not last, and that's our job. The introduction of an electronic form, i.e. the digitisation of the property registration process, has contributed significantly not only to the discharge of the Commission from that physical copy work but also allows it to control the correctness of the enrolment. I'm sure it's about speeding up the process, making him transparent. And what is also important about the automatic separation of those data that are to be published from those who are considered personal data. We know that a relatively recent dispute broke out amongst other things and in various interpretations of the provisions of the regulations that speak about the protection of personal data between the competent agency and the Commission itself, which had to comply at one point with the Agency's decision and had been subject to public criticism because it was unfairly accused of hiding information that was interesting to the public. The new element in this whole story, which relates to that educational, informative role of the Commission itself, is that certain release of the Commission's capacity created the conditions for instructive opinions to assess the level of ethics of public officials' behaviour. It is not good, it is simply not good that in one case, which is the case mentioned by Mr Djakic, the person concerned by the procedure which was opened immediately publicly opposed to the Commission and called the Commission that it was not its jurisdiction. In fact, a bad message is sent that there are touching and untouchable and there should be no such thing in the system. So, if it turns out that the procedure launched is without a basis and there will be no negative conclusions in this direction or sanctions, it will be the best defence of the institution of the president of the state. But certainly not her spot-on reaction in which she seeks, or disowns the Commission's right to even talk about how the President of the State has the means to receive a note from the state budget. Political corruption and abuse of duties are elements that generally make politicians in Croatia and in many other countries, especially transitions, not a high reputation. But by introducing a new practice, different monitoring, systematic monitoring must not be done another type of error, and that is to say, every public action by a parliamentary representative is declared by the abuse of duty. It is simply the task of each parliamentary representative to communicate with his electoral base, to meet all those who address him in the hope that they can appear and explain their problems and to represent the interests of not only citizens but also legal persons where lobbying, negative lobbying ceases. Why? Because we live in a system that's loaded with administrative obstacles, deafness, then rude behavior of a part of bureaucracy, above all, in a state apparatus. If a parliamentary representative publicly requires that those obstacles be removed, to allow everyone under equal conditions in the competition or according to the rules laid down by the regulations to have access to the market, access to law is not and cannot be declared by conflict of interest or by public abuse of their own duty. It is the parliamentary representative's job to speak publicly of any anomalies that he has any knowledge of. They don't have to be committing a crime which then enters the sphere of his obligation to report it, but it can be a public indication of problems. Although under this public pressure something positive happens or moves the thing from a dead spot, it should not be interpreted as a pressure that is not permitted, or as a abuse of duty. In this sense, there will certainly be still and some time of debate about what morality is, which is the ethics of a state official or public official. In this regard, caution should be exercised, but not to send negative messages that ethical principles as set out in Article 5 should not be adhered to. Even more so, who else will question it if not the Committee? Well, he's legally defined as a liability. In this respect, the Commission’s task is not simple in view of the limited resources, given the limited resources, in view of the conflict of laws. And if we really want this area to be settled so that as a generation of representatives of this call, we can say that we have contributed to the transparency of public behaviour, the return of the reputation of politics, the return of politics to politics, and not the private interest and its promotions, then we must be aware of our tasks, which is that in this parliamentary mandate we must approach the corrections of this legislative framework and expect the Government to prepare certain solutions in this regard, and this as a package of laws, because it is obvious that it is not about one regulation, but more of them. To entertain the public about other ephemeral things is certainly easier. The populists go to a reading that publicly touches the status of parliamentary MPs, of course, will do better in public, but systematically approach the change of the legal framework that will permanently allow no one to deal with what is not allowed, that everyone is forced into moral and ethical behavior is already a job. I hope the Parliament will have both strength and responsibility for this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3609	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3610	Thank you very much. Well, you mentioned well how morals and ethics should be first and how all of them should stick to, of course, the President of the Republic by acting in their public responsibilities. And when one, above all, human move or gesture turns into a hickey, and that's just on the day of the Committee's interrogation and the decisions and the application of a high-ranking state official, then it seems as if this case has blacked out the one in order not to be publicly exposed. These are things that are not defined by law as you say. Yes, if there is no responsibility, i.e. And punishment, then I don't know why this is about except for political reasons and mixing the Commission into political connotations and putting political labels on what it is moral, which is ethical. Well, I think that, above all, the money that was sent to humanitarian purposes and morally and ethically spent was not left to himself, to his family, but given to humanitarian purposes. Well, that's what's good, and it probably doesn't answer to someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3611	Replica reply, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3612	Comrade Djakic, there are two problems with what you have brought out in your replica. The first is that the President of the Republic first donated money to her own party, and then she transferred it further. It's something that's very controversial, because if we're going to keep the idea of humanity to the end in this process, and if she wanted to have an intermediary, which means the situation in which these funds won't be taxed could have been found among non-political organisations, let's say humanitarian. So it's hard to defend that position from HDZ's vision because you're involved. And the second element, talking about morality and ethics to you, is not easy, because the president of your party has publicly said that morality is a very relative category.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3613	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3614	Mr. Vice President, I would, I believe Article 232 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure which discusses the subject and the topic is the 2014 Work Report. But maybe it doesn't matter, because it's good to describe what happened later in 2014. However, on two occasions, there is a specific case that took place in 2016 where the measure of things is mentioned. I would also like to protect the Commission from the influence of parliamentary representatives in deciding or the President of the Republic on how to keep it in the House today, and perhaps the Committee concludes otherwise that you are appealing to the representatives to leave the case to be discussed for 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3615	I thank the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk, and I appeal to what my colleague said. So we stick to the subject in 2014 and let's not spread it, because whoever doesn't stick to the Rules of Procedure will have to then and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, take away the word, etc. Here, I'm asking you to stick to the subject everyone in the assembly. The following came to the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3616	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues, respected fellow MPs, respected Mrs. Oreshkovic. In front of us is the report on the work of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2014 which gives us insight into all aspects of work and problems as well as the solution to the problems facing the Commission. I know that you were initially administratively and financially sub-opted, but I see that today this commission has become a very respectable institution. I think it is very important to promote the work of this institution and to strengthen its reputation both in public and among the addressees of the legal norms on preventing conflicts of interest to us officials. Only one strong independent, independent and permanent commission can build a decision-making practice and create trust in its impartiality. Only in this way can everyone feel that even when decisions are not at their discretion that they are legitimate and just. It will never be equal to everyone's will. These days, the work of the commission is particularly visible because officials file a report on the property, so that we know how much property someone enters politics and how much of it comes out of it. Some are measured medium time, some are less successful, some are more successful, some are very successful, and some changes in property are suspected. And so it always happens, it's the sense of property cards to put us and our property under increased and to kind of strip us in front of the public. He who has nothing to hide has nothing to fear. The public's interest is great and it's good because the public's interest creates pressure on all those who think that the public interest has just flossule on paper. Public pressure can be inexorable, as we have recently seen in an example of a minister who had to leave after the shortest ministerial career in the history of the Croatian state. I would personally prefer it if there were no need for such a commission and we do not need a law that warns that we must have a public interest ahead of a private who must draw it in some way. But given the time when the last major changes to this law were written and the HDZ government at the time, nothing was strange and abnormal. When we make a decision that we want to do public work, and when we are elected or appointed to what kind of duty we must also be aware that we agree to a different set of rules and that from that moment on, public interest must be our first priority. We need to understand that the public has the right to know what our income is and that the public has the right to know how much real estate we have, what kind of car we drive, what kind of watches we wear, what bags we wear, whether they're real or fake, how much they cost, who pays us and organizes parties. All that public has a right to know. There's no hiding. By law, our receipts are clear and transparent because we receive them from the budget. If we know that we cannot have any other receipts or receive gifts, it is very easy to conclude whether or not someone could have obtained something from their incomes. If there's a disproportionateity, then it's a job for some other institutions. In this composition, the Commission started working at the beginning of 2013 by selecting a commission i.e. members of the committee and the president. I think it worked very well and I think it's only now that after a few years of practice that the parts of the law are simply not well formulated and which parts should be changed. It's one topic that I see going through almost everything speaking today, the need to amend this law. I will refer to some examples because I believe that the law is logically related to your work that we are discussing today, and you are obliged to conduct it even though it often literally binds your hands. In advance, I would like to stress that any changes to the law must necessarily go towards strengthening the role of the commission and your ability to make an objective decision whether there is a breach of public interest somewhere or just the illogical nature of the ill-written law. So, in any case, with all the circumstances of that case. You should always have that possibility of judgment. In my opinion, it's the meaning of a collective body, the meaning of a commission. You mentioned in your report a lot of registers of officials and problems you encounter when forming that register. We know that there is in the law a whole catalogue of officials who, depending on the Government Act, are slightly changed, complemented but there is a whole series of state officials to whom the law is referred indirectly which some of them are considered not officials, but are officials and some of them are subject to this law, and this law applies the Law on civil servants. I don't think those standards are good enough, precisely set up, and I think that they should be changed to create legal certainty in the address book of this law, and also with you as a committee and the public who in some way is the meaning of the existence of this commission, which is, of course, that all the jobs related to us officials are public and transparent. I think you'll all agree that receiving gifts is one of the most sensitive aspects of this law. In fact, the law prohibits more or less every kind of gift, especially those in money, those who are not in money whether these services, are they, so that's all that an official can put into some relationship of addiction to someone else. And that's okay. However, the law also places one exception to that rule, which is when it comes to gifts between family members, relatives, and friends, common gifts among friends. Many concepts in this Law are well-listed and explained in the catalog, but let's say this very important term, the notion of a friend is not processed, is not defined. To be honest with you, I'm interested in the way in which you define whether someone is a good friend and I don't want to be in the position of the Committee to decide if anyone was a good friend. Maybe here I can, let's just say I'd start this initiative to think about getting it at the beginning of our mandate and one friend's register, and then everyone knows what friends we're going to be with, what friends we end up with. I think it's a very important thing because here's what happens in our mandates to some friends to do us some favors. Let's say for example. They're throwing us a birthday party. And now we assure that whatever it was a gift of greater value than 500 kuna that it was okay because it was about our good friend. So I'd like to define what a good friend means. Let's say, here was a concrete example of a very high-ranking Croatian official, perhaps most of all a football manager, president of a football club. Are they really good friends, are they just acquaintances? And as long as that friendship goes back to when Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Please, please, I warn off topic is, so we stick to topic.]] Here, I'm coming back, yeah, I'm going back. Thank you, thank you. So, as for membership in the boards of directors, that means the management of companies and the supervisory boards, I think that's one big problem that we shouldn't look closely at. I think that's going to be a problem, it's shown in practice, it's been a problem for the past government, it's going to be a problem for this government too. It is simply the law that the official cannot be a member of any company or member of the supervisory board’s management. And that creates great problems and difficulties in the functioning of individual ministries, let's say when someone joins your ministry as an assistant minister. So the moment he was appointed, he could no longer be deployed, for example, to the post of member or president of the administration of an important company that is in the portfolio of the ministry, and let's say the minister estimates that he would be better and more useful there at some future point. So I think it's illogical and it's simply about a common staff roschade inside the same resistor. I don't think it's the same thing, so whether someone's named inside the vault or when someone's later moving from a state institution to a company. Well, we remember the example of a state secretary from HSLS who was in charge of telecommunications and post office, who soon after the end of his term began working for a direct competitor to Croatia. That's why I think it's good to keep things like this from happening. But we have two categories here. One prevents an official from working at a company with which his body was headed by the business and, as far as I'm concerned, it's a high corruption risk, high. But in that case, let's say the Committee has the right to make a decision in any particular case whether it's okay or not. And this previous ban, it's absolute and I don't think that's right. I think it's going to create, I think it's going to create big problems, but here's the fact that this government, two months after its formation, hasn't even filled in half of its posts, and I think you'll have enough time to get all people right, slowly through the next two, three months, maybe half a year to set up where they are, where you think it'll be best. I think this provision of the law will also create great headaches and difficulties for Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic. I don't know if Mr. Oreshkovic is familiar with these regulations and whether he is aware or not. Was he aware when he made that fateful decision in those 3 hours that he would no longer be able to return to his lead... when one day his mandate expires, at the head of the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in particular, I think if he wants to respect, of course, the full law of the Republic of Croatia, which would be the order when someone was president of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a while, full term or whatever. Dear Mrs. Oreshkovic, judging by the first two months of the new government, it seems to me that you and the Committee are going to have a lot of work to do. In this business, I wish you and all the members of your commission a lot of courage and happiness. Of course, the SDP Representatives Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3617	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3618	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 232, tells a colleague, a speaker on some topics that cannot be discussed under Rule 232. So imagine, let's say that I now say that I congratulate you on identifying individuals from the former government, and they're even legally convicted. So imagine we open up the topic when it's already about what's been going on since class, I don't know what cars are, to open up the topic that certain law offices have raised the amount of cooperation. So this is the Croatian Parliament, so we can talk about things. So the breach is Rule 232.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3619	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3620	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague who listed a lot, a lot of what today's report doesn't have as well as I did in some new time. But here, I'd go back to what's written here and it's a project to inform the Commission that has experienced a good success, progress and technological progress and cost reduction. Now it's come to my attention that you haven't noticed that the Committee with several contracts has chosen the Apis firm and it's a baffled purchase to install the program to this particular commission. Since we are aware of who is in Apis the manager, the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a majority stake, as the city of Zagreb has been reduced and Mr Jelusic as a member of the Board of Directors of Apis, then I find a lot of things even suspicious. Because the 69600 kn contract at the annual level is considered a bazaar purchase. That's a good line if it wasn't 69999, then it'd be even clearer. You've failed to notice how this leprosy purchase was done. And now at the end, it's probably, uh, a new firm has been selected to maintain that system, and I believe that it's not as interesting to you as anything else you've listed. So here's how you can respond to the replica of how it was that Apis was the one who served and supported the Committee for Conflict of Interest in the annual contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3621	The reply to the replica, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3622	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. To me, I must admit, it is not clear what the honourable representative Djakic meant by this. And I just want to remind him that when Apis made contracts with the Committee, it was during the former government, and then, at the head of the Apis administration, there was another person. So I really think, I realize that a colleague has to answer somehow, I think it has to satisfy the form in some way. But here I really didn't get it right, but if I realized it was about Apis and then I just wanted to tell you to check out a few invoices, dates. So, at a time when these contracts that were not at all how much I understood from the report were controversial, they were simply too high amounts, i.e. They weren't competitive. So, Mrs. Oreshkovic and her professional service, i.e. The commission simply estimated that for the needs of information it would be much better to be another firm which is normal and which is fine. Apis is a state firm. Not all state institutions have to work with Apis, there's freedom of the market and that's fine. Here's what I'm going to take advantage of is a chance to commend the Committee that it's really informative, i.e. This one you've done very well so far, I've failed to say that the electronic patterns are a little bit complicated at first, but later really well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3623	Thank you. The following came to the debate, the esteemed representative Drazen Bosnjak, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Committee with the Deputy. Here is the report on the work of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest to return to the topic, so for 2014. This year I guess we'll also be discussing the 2015 Report where we might find some questions that are open here in this report. I must say, if we look at the report, the report is very professional and correct. It contains all the information to be contained, so it also contains the number of sessions and the number of decisions made and on all the activities of the Committee, so it provides us with one full insight and review of the work of the Commission in 2014. If we were to ask ourselves, consider what the situation in the segment and area of conflict of interest is today, then we must really go back to some history and remember that this institute was installed in our political system in 2003 and that it has been a really long time since this system, since this institute in our system lives and after all, we see that many issues are still open and that other legal solutions are still needed to make this system of conflict prevention work even better. But as a society, we still need to be satisfied, because in a relatively short time, we have built a system that we had never known before, which is actually very much talking about raising a single and political culture and raising democratic and political standards in our society. All these institutes that exist and conflict of interest and a transparent way of financing political parties and a system of financing election promotions and a system of right to access information all say how far we have come as a society and as a society we mature, of course there is still one quite large way ahead of us and there is still plenty of space in each segment that I have said about progress. The conflict of interest is regulated by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. He is definitely one of the important tools in the fight against corruption, which unfortunately is in our society, we cannot say that at low levels as a transition society, we are heavily burdened. And here we have this institute of conflict of interest that will certainly contribute to the fight against corruption being more effective. The fight against corruption is, in fact, not only the fight against the commission, the State's Attorney's office, the police, but the struggle of the entire society against such an evil. This law is in its being a preventive law, it is preventive because all its provisions, all its mechanisms it wants to prevent tomorrow from reaching some unwanted actions, some of the actions that are connected to and meaning in its being corruption, and on this side it is very much to welcome all these preventive mechanisms that the law has and which I today think have entered into the consciousness of almost all politicians in this country from local, regional and national levels. All these reports that we deliver have very good justifications and it is important that society knows what someone entered politics with and after political action whether this has taken place increasing the assets of some disproportionate where there is no real justification for why this would come. It is clear that it should not be expected that the commission should be neither BUSKOK nor PNUSKOK but should deal with these provisions, these powers which the law has laid down. Right here someone said that the conflict of interest was one of the most important actually conditions when we closed negotiations for EU membership and that it was one of the important criteria for meeting those conditions in Chapter 23. This is certainly true because if we remember in 2003 when the commission was founded and when the members of the commission had just begun to live they were actually parliamentary representatives and it was not exactly the happiest solution because of course those political debates that were being passed on to the field and to the actual commission. Today's defined commission as an independent, objective and I would say primarily professional body because what you are offering in this report speaks in fact not only of the objectivity but also of the expertise of the work of the commission because as we see the law after this decision of the Constitutional Court of 2012 which abolished the whole series of provisions of the law has certain legal gaps which are not replaced. And I think everyone who has advocated here will need to approach certain legal changes in the next period, I think they're right. The law needs to be even more precise, even clearer. On the other hand, we have a significant job ahead of us. You correctly pointed out in your report that there are other laws, such as the Government Act, the Law on Officials, so that it opens up certain ambiguities whether some appointed officials who fall under this law or not. It is certainly in the following steps to be clarified, to be done. We have today regardless of these I would say a minimum legal void we have a decent legal framework and now as we see one material situation that is quite good. The commission teamed up, hired a whole series of consultants working within the commission. We have an information system that is to be commended. He owns the commission today, so that software part of him. So it's not the property of another company, it's the property of the commission itself. What I'm saying here is that what the commission was doing was about prevention, so besides those cases that it discussed on the reports and on the knowledge, these are educational elements, educational processes where it actually held workshops and lectures and worked with officials at regional and local level. That's very commendable. Where opinions are given, so each of the officials who find themselves in a situation where they do not know how to act, it is very good, and it seems to me that a practice is being developed to ask for an opinion on how to act in a particular situation. The commission is there to provide such answers. It's definitely a way to avoid any conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is always a conflict of public and private. Always an official can come into the situation that he has to make a decision while at the same time having some private interest in making such a decision. There you need to install mechanisms to always weigh that public interest. But not only the mechanisms but it is necessary to raise the awareness of both the individual and the whole society that it must actually work in the public interest because it has also been appointed and elected to some function and to serve the very public, to serve the whole society. So here's the whole one time still ahead of us, but I think that with the current situation we can be satisfied, not satisfied that we're doing anything further than having one creative sense of satisfaction that tomorrow means through changes we improve this kind of system. Definitely, these gaps created by the Constitutional Court's decision to determine ourselves there and that we need to find some mechanisms that would be substitutive but that would be acceptable and that would be in line with constitutional principles. Also, this budget, which we see as the commission has, we see that, within that budget, it is thrift and very rational and it is in any case commendable. That's how it's supposed to keep going. I would not like to discuss any specific and individual subjects that we could discuss here, but what was quite clear was people from almost all the political options that were the subject of the committee's debate, and that is why I am assessing the work of the commission and the commission as an independent expert body that reached that level. They really don't care who comes from which party, who comes from which political option. Here is the HDZ Club to support this 2014 report on the work of the commission and it is certainly still a long way ahead of us that this institute, which we would say, is going to scratch and make it an even stronger part of the awareness of the entire society needed to fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3625	Replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3626	The Honorable President listens to this here today and I take off my hat whoever works in the state administrations, administration, balance system and verification in Croatia, is not an easy job for them. But I wonder this, a conflict of interest, what happens to the biggest frauds in Croatian history that have been sitting there for years in DORH, PNUSKOK, USKOK, and I don't know any more KGB, FSB where is the synergy between DORH and other institutions? Where's that balance check system? How does that work? It seems to me that we live in some state that looks like Guatemala, but we only have more television in Croatia. Short questions, I have here a document in my hand that forgives some companies 2 million 455 kunas, etc. Which government signed the Act on the delete of the subject to registration from the court register, on which... The biggest robbery in history. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about corruption in DUUDI? This postmortem aid, etc., etc. While people are being sealed by companies, coffee shops for 2 kuna tax debts are looking at a multibillion-dollar fraud. No. Who do we train to be strict here? Is this really a legal state? Who runs this country? Does that have a parallel command column? ... What is not only the state of Croatia in their interest, but only the interest and other state of Croatia which cannot be expressed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's my question, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3627	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3628	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was offered by my colleague Bošnjakovic on the replica by your statement that many laws are in collegiate. And very often we, too, in this House of Highs, when we pass laws, must be careful about the link between these laws because if we do not look after it then the independent institutions that we have established because, regardless of the political pressures they are doing their job, come into a lot of trouble. But the biggest problem is that many officials face problems personally. Many times for political reasons, laws are pushed to prevent something. I will withdraw here the conflict between the Law on Sports and the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. The Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has made it clear in Article 14, paragraph 5, that an official may be headed by two associations or two foundations, so he must not receive compensation and may receive compensation for travel expenses. At the same time, the Sport Act, which regulates the organisation in 99.9999% of non-profit associations and only 1,000.1% are companies, says in one definition a ridiculous provision, which cannot be led by companies under the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. So what does the association have to do with companies? However, the Committee on Conflict of Interest says it is not the subject of their debate, which is correct. And then, one of you, one of the organizations that you can do that duty, and then there's an inspection on someone's orders and he says he can't and he starts calling for Article 14(1). The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Now look, to prevent a series of inconveniences, then when the laws change, you so-called. The related laws must be amended as well. Because they're not just government officials, there's a lot of officials and at a local level who, by working in certain things and even in some NGOs, can do far more harm than this. So when we talk about reports like this, then we need to know what it is, just one more sentence, please, we need to know what the responsibility of the lawmakers is. So when we change one law, if we want to achieve something with it, then we have to change all the laws he commits to making it easier and better for everyone to live.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3629	Replication response esteemed representative Dražan Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3630	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you're absolutely right. And to those of us today who make up the parliamentary majority and our government that we have given trust is a great responsibility that when they pass the laws that make these laws clear in the first place. So those to whom they apply, they need to know exactly what the laws are, what they're talking about and what the meaning of those laws are. And not only that, but what you just said, every law actually has a link in the political system and has a few laws attached to it. And if that's where certain questions and ambiguities are asked, we haven't done a good job. The commission is very nice in its report, it is seen that it explained the actual conflict of certain legal rules and they are actually in a situation that they must, they must interpret. Every body that enforces the law in some way in that conduct is interpreting it. And what encourages them is that, in fact, all the decisions that have been made by the Commission that have been in the administrative court have given the right that the Committee has done well, it has done well. However, it is neither clear nor easy to actually pass a clear law. And today we are witnessing how complicated the laws are, how vague they are, how many actually raise questions about how to deal with some regulation. And so, the hardest part is, I have the impression of making a short and clear law for which all addressees know what they're going to do with it tomorrow and how they're going to treat it. But here today is a great responsibility right on the parliamentary majority, to the government to go that way to be clear, to be in the spirit of the system. Because it's said that if there are certain conflictes, then bodies and courts must interpret themselves in the spirit of the legal system itself. It's very difficult, but unfortunately, those are the solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3631	Next in the debate is the esteemed representative Robertst Podlonjak, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3632	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam President of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, Honored colleagues and colleagues. First of all, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, I would like to say immediately that the Most Independent Lists will support the relevant Report of the Commission for 2014. And we expect to discuss the 2015 Report as early as this year. On the occasion of watching today all the materials related to the Commission I noticed that, just in the National Journal of March 2, 2011, a Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest was published, so just five years ago. Now we're actually playing the third-term game we're dealing with, so first of all, that VI stimulant passed the law. However, he could not practically be implemented because the Committee was not elected. That's what the second convocation of the seventh did. And now it's actually in the third session that deals with this law that we see based on all the experiences and practices of how this law improves. Definitely from all the exhibitions we've had the opportunity to hear from everything we've been able to read, it's clear that there is a need for a certain normative addition of the law. But she has to be thought about it anyway. It is doubtless that in these few years as the Commission has been working, and in fact it seems to me all three years since it was established, that this commission has proved itself to be an independent and impartial state body which, in the present period, has said very well, we would have done a great job of developing and building up an institute of conflict of interest which is not exactly the best-quality regulation. In these few years, the Commission, which is actually a very small body of only five members in relation to some other bodies, has indeed not had many members in view of the large production of decisions, opinions produced by the Commission over the past few years. When you try to see actually how many texts, decisions, opinions, then you see that it's an impressive number in just a few years. I would say even if there was a certain need to systematicize those decisions, opinions because they said they would become untransparent. Even I recently asked the Commission for an opinion on a specific question concerning the City Council, which I was a member of and only later saw that the Committee had given a certain opinion about it two years ago. But it simply has so many opinions and decisions that you don't even have time to read back a few years that the Commission has decided to do so. Therefore, the Commission has done much to build up the register of public officials and government officials. However, the work in this regard is not completed. You can see from the Commission's report that there are still discrepancies in this regard, that although the law gives clear guidance in this regard, it is definitely not clear to the end who does everything to state officials or in general who is in the register of those who are obliged to comply with the law. I am sorry, for example, that the Croatian Parliament has not fulfilled its obligation, and it has done so by the Government, the President of the Republic has done so to provide a list of all persons elected, appointed or confirmed in order to facilitate the work of the Committee. The commission also points to this in its report, and I think that in this conference, perhaps the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, which has the best overview of all those who propose to the Croatian Parliament, should draw up a list of all those officials who, in this sense, fall under the authority of this law. In this way, the Commission would not have to enter its interpretation, even in the final line and administrative disputes with individual officials, where it is finally shown that the Commission is nevertheless thanks to a proactive approach and was finally right. We actually see today according to the official's register that we have over 1800 officials. I would say a lot for a pretty small state and it shows how much even when we take the judicial officials as many politicians in the Republic of Croatia. The majority are local officials, some over 1300 and about 5 hundred are officials at the state level. In the presentation on the Committee on the Constitution, I said that according to the law of local officials, there is the most, but it seems to me that there is a great space here to build up the system in a certain sense. That is what some other speakers have talked about today, and at local level only the municipal chiefs and mayors and mayors and their deputies are entities of this law as officials who are bonds. However, conflict of interest is certainly taking place at local level and there are certainly quite often members of representative bodies and management officials in administrative bodies and there are, of course, companies and institutions, companies particularly owned by local self-government units and the whole spectrum of actors, institutions, companies is not really the subject of this law. And I understand that the Committee and its role cannot be extended to that spectrum of actors. However, there is obviously a need to regulate the potential conflict of interest at local and regional level in some ways. If you look at the report's contribution, if you see how much you have decisions and opinions regarding individual officials, you will see that about three quarters refers to the local and regional (regional) level. This suggests that greater and more comprehensive education at local level may be needed. The local level is often not so covered by the media, much less monitored for what is happening. But all of us who are in some way local officials or we have some public duties at local level know that in fact it happens very often I will say a potential conflict of interest but very often a real conflict of interest. But it is something that will need to be considered and better regulated at a certain point if not by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest but certainly by some other regulation. Furthermore, it is very important to say that, in terms of extending the circle of officials, as indicated by the Commission, it is also necessary to install certain entities to which it is particularly alluded here, so in the management of the HBOR, FINA and some other entities and the Croatian Parliament should regulate this issue more carefully when next amending the law. The fact is that the law was passed I will not say under the pressure of the EU, but I well remember the debate that led to the law being passed, then I was in the capacity of an external member of the Committee on the Constitution, and I remember that the debate often emphasized that many institutes of this law would not tell us to be imposed but simply copied from the law of certain countries and the question is to what extent can they actually be applied, how logical, coherent they are, how consistent they are with some other laws. It seems to me that after a few years of implementation, it is evident that certain institutes are not defined and are not of quality. In this sense, this convocation of the Croatian Parliament should, in any case, be completed by individual institutes. In particular, when it comes to situations which have already been referred to around Article 14, as regards Article 20 of this Act, about certain absolute prohibitions that individual officials may, within a certain period of time following the conduct of their duties, not be able to exercise certain duties within a year, not return to their posts if they have managed a particular business entity. Therefore, this also applies to parliamentary representatives even in some of me very banal situations that people who have been representatives here for 4 years cannot return to their profession after the end of the term of office even though their company or their legal office or their crafts had no business contact, no business relationship within the meaning of the law with the body in which they acted, so with the Croatian Parliament. And in this sense, in fact, these officials must actually be that year and on the Budget of the Republic of Croatia which I do not consider to be logical and that in that sense the Commission should always be able to decide whether there is any potential conflict of interest at all. Of course, the Constitutional Court's decision has made it impossible for this law and commission to fully carry out its function. And we did not find legal mechanisms or tools to strengthen the role of the commission after that decision of the Constitutional Court. In fact, today it seems to me that when I observe the media and what they write about officials, property, etc., we are more concerned with the situation of officials at the beginning of the term of office, so that very rarely we can actually deal with what should be the most important thing, which is the ultimate state of property. So, is there a difference between entry and exit at the end of the term of office. And that is unfortunately disabled precisely because of the fact that the Constitutional Court has abolished some very important provisions. And I think that a commission that does not have access to all relevant data on the property of officials and cannot fully determine whether there is a discrepancy of assets and whether any official has potentially been in conflict of interest and whether there is potentially a significant difference in his assets at the end of his term of office. In that sense, I think that the role of this Croatian Parliament in the next major amendment to this law would have to go in this direction to enable the Commission to play a more significant, more active role at this crucial stage to assess whether there is a significant difference in property because that is actually the point of the law. It is not the point in seeing the initial state of property of officials but the final state of affairs. One that can indicate whether there really is a discrepancy that a single official cannot explain. And I think that this report and what we're about to have would actually have to give us some guidance and guidance on how to build this law so it doesn't turn out that we brought it just because we had to meet certain guidelines of European institutions. This law must be relevant for ourselves, for all of us officials and for the perception of integrity in the exercise of public functions of all state and local officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3633	The replica was presented by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3634	Thank you. Here we have heard an expert opinion, an expert analysis on behalf of the MOST Club, which says that this law and this commission has existed since 2011, and that in such a short time it could not have produced better results than those who did. That the law on this commission was passed at a time when the Honorable Vice President Podolnjak was a member of the Committee on the Constitution and he was a member of the Committee on the Constitution between 2008 and 2011. Well, here's to help improve the expertise of all the expert opinions of MOST, I need to introduce the vice president to the fact that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest was passed in this Parliament at the meeting on 1 October 2003. The president of the Parliament was then Mr. Tomcic, the law was signed by President Mesic. Therefore, the second time MOST enters professional analysis, here I would like them to be as professional as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3635	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3636	My dear colleague, I wasn't talking about the first law. I was talking about this one that's in effect now. So this is the law that came into force five years ago. So it was published in 2.3, so I'm not talking about the first law that is no longer in force, but about the one by which this commission is elected and acting. So that's the law I'm talking about, not the previous one, the first one.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3637	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3638	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Vice President of the Parliament. I am surprised that what you said in your presentation is that the Croatian Parliament should send the Committee a list of officials to which this law or the Committee on Selection and Appointment should apply on behalf of the Croatian Parliament. The selection, appointment and administrative affairs committee cannot do so because it is well known, according to the law, it is tax-based who falls under this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which are state officials. And every politician at Parliament level, whether at the level of local administration and self-government should worry whether he is in a possible conflict of interest or not. And if he is in doubt about it, it is the commission's duty to give him an answer to the question a person sends to the Commission. This law has been advanced and I have personally participated in several cycles of adoption of this law since our entry into the stage of negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union. We had significant changes and the Constitution where you were also a member of the Foreign Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system in 2010. This law is good, it has some vagueness and legal voids that we have to fill out. But that a lot of good has changed as well as the awareness of politicians compared to the times before and now is also importantly visible. Similarly, the Commission is not a judicial body, it has powers under the law, and we must make sure that one who has crossed the borders of conflict of interest falls within another domain, the domain of the state's attorneyship and the USKOK, and not within the scope of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. So if this assembly of Parliament has a good intention, then we must stick to what the Rules of Procedure allows us and the Rules of Procedure clearly state what the Board of Selection and appointment and legal affairs can do. And what's the point and intensity of this law is I think the law is on the right track, it's good, but we need to fix it. And why has the Constitutional Court abolished those provisions of the Law concerning entering the personal accounts of politicians, you know best as a constitutional legal expert or should know.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3639	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Vice President Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3640	Thank you. Dear colleague, I have concluded as have some other speakers that the Croatian Parliament has not delivered the Committee to his request for a list of persons appointed, elected, or confirmed. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia could have done so, if the President of the Republic could have done so, I think the Croatian Parliament should have done so. I mentioned the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs only as a body that has a review of persons who propose to the Croatian Assembly not as a body that should deliver it or as a body that is only relevant to do so but a body that has a safe view of all these persons and I think it should do so. The commission was in a situation where it had to actively interpret the law and only decide that some official was really covered by this law. But the intention is to say that I simply do not see any reason for the Croatian Parliament to deafen itself to the application of the commission and do what other political bodies, the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3641	Thank you. Replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3642	I really don't see why the Parliament... But I wouldn't agree that the problem is just the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law had its cycles, it evaluated from 2003 to today. And since we're usually a hypernormized state, we have laws and regulations, etc., the question is how long they've been going on. So another regulation wouldn't hurt anyone if we had come forward and it was written in that regulation, that all state officials were listed, and that she then played the role of what we don't have right now. So we have no answer for who the state officials are and we have a solid law. But what's missing in that law is still a criminal responsibility. Therefore, criminal legislation should be linked to this law and there is a concrete move. It's nice to listen to all these deminings where the Constitutional Court's decision is called a void, is that what one colleague called it? But I say specifically, here's a colleague from the MOST and you at the Most who are in executive power, so suggest a concrete change where it's missing and we'll support it. But as everything is interlinked, if the law is even better and a provision is added which is now missing and the Constitutional Court says no again and takes all one step back, where we are then. And I draw attention to my colleagues from MOST to be proactive in this sense and therefore to their sitting in the executive authority on this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3643	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Vice President Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3644	Yes, of course, the fact that the Constitutional Court abolished some of the important provisions of this law made the Commission part of the work, but to a very significant extent impossible to achieve the purpose for which the Commission was established. But it's not easy when the Constitutional Court as a body that finally decides on the issue of the constitutionality of a law afterwards finds real mechanisms that I won't tell you to bypass the decision, but find some other mechanisms that you want to achieve the same purpose. If you can't, for example, access to banking data, so you're protected by banking secrets, you simply can't come because the Constitutional Court has told you that you have no right to require banks to provide you with a balance on the account of an official you don't have a way around how you're going to get that data. Such data obviously only in some criminal proceedings can require an authorized judicial authority, but then it is another kind of procedure, it is not something the Commission can do. That's the problem. But then it's not the Commission's problem, it's some other bodies that should also detect a discrepancy of assets or possibly, on the basis of certain observations, initiate a certain procedure. It is not simple and certainly cannot be regulated only by this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Maybe there are quality practices out there that we could accept without the law being prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3645	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3646	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I wanted to stress two things about your exposure to the esteemed colleague Podolnjak. One of them was mentioned by a colleague named Salapic. Therefore, Parliament is the highest body and the only body in the country that decides on the interests of citizens and legal persons not only of the Croatians, but also of those operating in the territory of Croatia, so we cannot switch to the Commission for something wrong. In that sense, you have at your disposal an initiative... In future law, decide who's in charge of the saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if you'll make it, but I recommend it, and for those we've appointed, we'd have to retroactively determine who suggested it and then make a decision at the Parliament that they're officials because we're making them a commitment, a different obligation of conduct. It's not possible to get a volunteer solution. We need to determine for each appointed person who did not come from the Selection Committee whether the applicant wanted to be included in the officials who would be responsible to the Committee. We have to do this, we can't even do most of this, because our will is controlled not only by citizens, but also by the Constitutional Court. That's why I think it's... It is important to see what is important for the Committee, not to see that the Parliament has a lack of will because we must not accept it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One thing. Secondly, we have to decide whether, why do I replicate it to you, because I have noticed that you would want to strengthen the repressive role of the Commission not to prevent it but to the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest. The law on preventing conflicts of interest, and the commission is for deciding. So thank you very much. In my debate, I'll say this.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3647	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Vice President Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3648	Thank you. We agree to believe in the important and there is no dispute and it has even been said by the President of the Committee, I would agree with this which is in the debate, which was on the board that already in the election of officials it should be clear that it is the official and that in this sense I must now say again the important role of the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Because if someone agrees to be appointed for a certain duty, and he doesn't know because he may not see it from the law that he is an official and he doesn't understand what obligations he will have for him. He may not understand that, for example, he will not be able to return to his company or where he worked a year after the term of office. So maybe he's just not aware of the fact that he's going to have a difficult return maybe back to his professional career. So I'm not going to talk about specific names, but there were cases that people had, so companies, they had companies. If they don't know that they're becoming officials and that they won't be able to return to their company's management jobs, then of course it's a problem if no one has told them clearly, but only later does the Commission react and says you're an official in terms of the law. You have obligations, that means you can't keep running your company, you have to pass it on. This is causing huge problems, and there we absolutely agree that this should be known at the time of the appointment of an individual official.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3649	Replica's distinguished representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3650	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Podolnjak, in your debate you have made good progress from year to year seen in the work of the Committee, but I disagree with you in the part as my colleague Leko began to talk about the need to give more power to the Commission in a way that he is now investigating, etc. So the Committee in my opinion is what counterpart Oreshkovic said and it is his biggest role for people in Croatia to see what someone has reported, or what they have or what they don't have, and then on application, because it's often being analyzed by citizens. Those in a situation where disproportionate or possibly something has not been reported should then receive all possible information and all possible I would say help from institutions that exist in the Republic of Croatia. Because it's gonna be hard for those 1800 people to analyze on a daily basis that changes every two or four years, it doesn't matter. And on the other hand, when you can't even establish a state institution, let's say that one mayor has 3 out of a library apartment in one city, and then there's a trial in court. How, for example, could a colleague of Oreshkovic, or her commission, establish this? How many services should be there at all, and how many people should analyze it, and what powers should they have to prevent anyone who, for example, would deny it or as a former prime minister who had the property who knew how much, here and now, in court, money and all of it is being established, and he did not report for several times when he had an obligation to have all his property. So it's very hard to do. I think the commission has made the biggest step in making the public aware, that everyone is watching and analyzing our assets and reporting if anything was problematic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3651	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed Vice President Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3652	Yes, I think we're in part agreeing because the commission has only found that it can detect discrepancies of property when it comes to real estate and movables. But unfortunately, he can't when it comes to that amount of money. There's just no mechanism here. And it seems to me that this part of the road can be of course and more significant than this part. You can see that one of the officials has watches that he didn't have, that are valuable and expensive, that he didn't have at the beginning of his term or that nobody was able to record. But what if he didn't buy watches but he just had money that was deposited somewhere and you can't really know about him that he exists? That's what the commission pointed out. And it pointed out how many other speakers saw no cooperation or good co-operation with the IRS. I don't think there's any excuse. That if the commission asks for co-operation with the IRS and if this cooperation "is not of a quality" that I at least express myself under quotes when it comes to non-compliance of property then I think there is room to improve the efficiency of state bodies. At least in the part where it's possible now. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3653	Next in the debate is the esteemed representative of Stipe Petrina on behalf of the HSU club and the independent list of Stipe Petrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3654	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, and I would like to welcome my colleagues and colleagues. Namely, as we supported the 2014 Commission Report on the Assembly Committee on Justice, the Club of Representatives of HSU and Stipe Petrina will also support this report and will support the Report submitted to the Croatian Assembly. There is no doubt that this commission is playing and I believe that in the future it will play an even more important role for a better, fairer, fairer and less corrupt Croatia. The commission during the period in which it was working we believe that it was facing some objective difficulties, and I see in this latest report that it has progressed greatly. But I wouldn't want to talk about it. A few things I've seen as one of the officials and I've pointed out so far I resent the commission and that's the difference between Article 7. The law on conflict of interest in which it is taxed on who is the official and who is subject to sanctions or controls of the Commission for the conflict of interest and on the other side of other positive regulations and laws of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, what's this about? Can an official receive any other officials' compensation? Of course you can't do Article 7. The committees of conflict of interest are very clear on that. However, what is the second duty? It is not gentlemen and colleagues defined except for what is taxed. According to me and the club's position is literally interpreting Article 7 as saying, "The official cannot receive other fees for other duties performed unless the special law provides them." And now we come to what this Reverend Home has to do with it. I have already been referred to in the first session and requiring authentic interpretation of the Croatian Parliament, which is the only one in charge of authentic interpretation of the laws and regulations that he adopts, so that Parliament adopts. On several occasions, I have cases of the commission usurping Parliament's powers and that's not good. Namely, the commission interprets that the second duty is, for example, a member of the representative body of the unit of local or regional self-government. But it's not like that. And that it is then respected colleagues and colleagues and respected committee presidents should be in Article 7. The Law on conflict of interest shall specify the tax and add those two categories, hence the members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government. At this point in this law, there is no such thing. Why would I say that? For Article 31 The law on election of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government is very clear and says: "All elected representatives or elected members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government have the right to compensation, following the decision of these representative bodies. The commission interprets it quite differently. And I ask you to define this one time, for example, are the county council officials? No, they're not. Where they are not, they may receive compensation regardless of whether their duties are broken in any executive authority or any of the duties referred to in Article 7. The law of conflict of interest. Are the members of the representative bodies of local self-government officials? No, they're not. Can I take it, that's a big grudge that the commission gives itself the right to authentically interpret the law. They're not the powers of the commission. That's one thing. And the other thing, what procedure does the Committee do? By law on litigation, by law on administrative procedure, or by other means? Why do I say that? A concrete example. The Commission shall take a decision at its session of 5 months, as long as it is sufficient and necessary legally and duly for the Commission to deliver that decision to the person against whom the Commission has conducted the procedure. According to me by administrative procedure for 30 days, I don't know, 30, 20, 60 days. Can the Committee by its own means, I don't know the discretionary decision to deliver it whenever it pleases him? He can't. Why can't he? Because we're getting what? To the absurdity of whether we can capture the Committee that it is in conflict of interest and that it may influence election processes with its decisions. I think all in order to improve the work of the Commission so that the Committee on these details, the legal details, nothing else should be discussed much more, referred to the Assembly a request for authentic interpretation of what I have said so far and tried to answer the questions raised on the Assembly Committee on Justice. There, but I stress the club of representatives of HSU and Stipe Petrina will in any case support the report and it contributes to the democratisation of both better and fairer life in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3655	Thank you. Next in the debate is the distinguished representative Goran Dodig on behalf of the HSS and HDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3656	Dear Madam President of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. So at the very beginning, that there would be no confusion between the HSS Club of Croatia and the Croatian Democratic Party will support this report. But I think there are a lot of issues that we're going around here and where the technical aspects of this story are more important to us than the essential aspects. There can be replicas and disagreements on every report, and I fully agree with it, and even the replicas are good, quality. But I would only go back to one detail which is why I would like to support and commend the actual exposure on behalf of Mr. Dolnjak's club. I mean, Mr. Podolnjak said one of the most important things that we all kind of forget. Namely, in the very sense of this report, it is to analyse the assets before and after the term of office. However, we will now talk for four years about the property that was previously acquired. For 4 years, we will discuss the property that was previously acquired where given the situation in society we will have a lot, I mean serious, as an institution and as a people, a lot of serious consequences. And that's something I think we have to, we have to take care of. The fundamental problem of Croatian society is the terrible mistrust of the public that is so important to us in the institutions and individuals who are part of these institutions. The average political consciousness, if you want the psychological standard of society we live in, is that it happened, right or wrong, that all are corrupt, that all are corrupt, that all are liars, and that the fact that someone is in charge, in itself tells us that it is, that it is, that it is, that it is, that it is, that it is, that it is, indistinguishable persons. How do you expect society to move forward as a whole, forward in any way if it thinks so about its authority and the inaccuracy of which, with the inaccuracy of the report, not only reports but interpreting these inaccuracies, it happens that the public becomes and from these positions already existing, that no one is believed to become a judge. Here's the point of preventing a conflict of interest. It seems to me that in this way, we achieve, in addition to that, of course, that we achieve, but a very negative climate in society. So if you're only looking at television reports that create opinions, then you'll actually see that last night, on one public television, there's talk of parliamentary representatives, and probably other officials as a very morally problematic group that receives different fees, and that's said for everyone who lives unjustly at the expense of workers, at the expense of the poor, etc. etc. What can it be? But now I'm going to go public here and say I don't take parliamentary wages. I don't have any, no additions the parliamentary deputies get here. And I actually feel like a man who's been unfairly accused. I wrote in my property card, Mrs. Oreshkovic, some real estate I didn't have to write, but it's mine. I don't have a property list of that, it's an inheritance one. The legacy of a small apartment in Zagreb is here, which my parents bought in '72. The year my sister had to run away from me because she was being chased away, because I was in prison, a little lofty apartment we never fixed later because it was sneezing but I had it there, I inherited it. I can't live in it, nor have I taken this fee from the Parliament to live here. I led him, I had to lead him. Okay, then it is. But you don't know I have it. Nowhere in any book is he seduced, in any book. So, mine is, I could say no, he belongs to my sister, you know. So it's a very, very slippery area. The other thing is, there's always talk about public relations. The question arises why public relations would be more important than relations with privacy. You can tell the officials must have it. You know what, in the center, the center, if you want the meaning of life is man and his privacy. Which is why someone who wants to be a parliamentary representative and deserves it would have to put it in a position to be watched by the public who is a member of the family of that parliamentary representative. Not all families are so coherent, unique. You have to make sure that there are not only different interests, different psychologys of individuals, and someone doesn't want to. Someone's wife doesn't want to show up at the doctor's ball, the other one will. Why are you bringing these people into an awkward, awkward position? Which is the philosophy of such a way of life. Another thing that's public? The public is most often the lay public in a certain sense, the lay public who will judge something moral habitat or status as it is or not. From insufficient data, unfortunately, it is now an phenomenon that is not only in politics. The lay public determines everything in terms of transparency as a foll of transparency. What does that mean? Well, there is, we're going to step up institutions that are going to punish those who are in conflict of interest, but let's put it on the street and decide from different street motives what kind of person you really are, I don't think it makes any sense. How are you going to motivate people who are serious about wanting and honest about politics to get into that public? We're talking about ethical problems, Mrs. Oreshkovic, we're all talking about ethics here. I don't know who mentioned Mr. Karamark when he said morale was a relative term. Of course, we have our moral criteria. But I assure you that everywhere these criteria are not the same, they are not the same, and in that sense it is relative. Ethics, let's do some ethics. There's a direction called hedonistic ethics, hedonistic. So there are a lot of ethicians who talk about how good it is to submit everything to your own pleasures. Are we talking about that ethics? We have to define which ethics are we talking about? Our moral or ethical principles in this hall are not the same. If we are not able to define it then it is very dangerous to hide behind these generally accepted concepts as guarantees of someone's quality in general. And finally, how much a story like this affects the philosophy of life. One... Therefore, the ticket to the ski resort in Austria is EUR 40. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The four-member family pays you EUR 160 a day about. Now imagine how much a four-member family skiing costs? I don't mind if people ski and so on, though. There is no skiing of a four-member family for one 7 or 10 days below a few thousand euros, four, five thousand euros. I would never give it. You know why? Not because I think it's bad, but because I don't like it. In five years it's about 20,000 euros, here's Bracanin calculates it immediately, excellent. 20,000 euros. You see, I'd rather buy those 20,000 euros 10 ha in a country in Slavonia that I'd never come to, he'd kind of booked for someone who'd live there. I'm sorry there aren't any of these students down there. I'd give it five years later when I see that none of my guys can be there I'd let them be there. You wouldn't spend it skiing. It's a philosophy of life. It's my pleasure. I'd rather buy here's now banalizing things, so as a doctor, a university professor in a permanent calling, buy two bags of cement and make one wall than spend on one dinner. You can laugh at me, but it's more of a pleasure to me. Is that why these people should be judged? When you tell this poor country which is stolen when you say that someone has 10 acres of land, it's a terrible stigma for that man. Tell me, does that make sense? What kind of man do we want to create? I respect the fact that you put it on the website to make it public, but take a little care of what it means. Let’s not think of the fact that something has been done in such a way as to consider itself to be of quality. Out of this context, I see I still have a minute, I'll tell you just one story that's not for the Parliament but it is for the Parliament. Let's start talking like people. I was in a society where the parents of a girl said that their daughter had made an agreement with someone or an Internet connection with a boy from Ireland and that she would spend 15 days in a resort in Croatia. And then they ask me what I think about it? I told them I wish they hadn't told me that, if they hadn't asked me, but when they asked me to. So I told them the next thing I know, that this daughter of yours at a fair in Dugopoly saw a guy who liked her and went behind a wall and did something he wouldn't justify but he would understand. This way she'd turn out to be broken, and this daughter who did it online with an unknown man, she's modern, in a trend, she did it on the Internet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3657	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3658	My colleague, Dodig, at one point you wondered if it made any sense? Of course it's not on what you said about 10 acres of land. But there's a lot of things that don't make sense when it comes to the Commission's decision on conflict of interest, and the most legal framework there is the most that doesn't make sense. The Committee within the legal framework is doing an extraordinary job. I said yesterday and on the board it's a pleasure to get into that institution and finally feel a man comfortable and comfortable when he comes around, when he solves his own problem. But there's no point in this law. The law is so against itself, they say in the European Commission that this is one of the most rigorous laws regarding the Commission's decision to decide conflicts of interest and at the same time the most controversial. The most rigorous and the ugliest. More important is the number of particles to enter even though everyone knows, the IRS has all the data, but if they missed the particle to sign in, that's the problem. But if you don't register who owns the trust account and the owner of the trust account is the owner of one bank, another bank, the third institution he has no obligation to report that property, and it may be bigger in one trust account than out of all the groups of our assets here in the Croatian Parliament. And he's not legally required to report his property. Likewise, the owners of concessions private have no place to enter or have any needs, and one concession may be worth more than all of our cumulative assets here in the Croatian Parliament. Not only are we here today, but we're from all agents. What about the property abroad? These are so many failures in the law and it's time to talk and bring about a change of law so that we can finally find out who's supposed to be a state official. Imagine managing one company that has a billion or two incomes and just as much expenditure, he's not a government official and we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3659	Hey, buddy, time. Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3660	I don't have an answer. I just support what Mr. Maric said.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3661	Replica, the distinguished representative of Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3662	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Parliamentary Representative Prof. Dodig, I agree with everything you said in that section when you said what that question was, is that a matter of ethics, what is a court of public? Do all of us who have gone into politics in an unconscious way perhaps have admitted that part of our families is being exposed to something. And certainly not all of the same material. I stand for transparency. I want to thank you right away, I've had a few questions I'd say as soon as I've directed them by the afternoon you answered me or the other day, so that's okay, that's good, that's commendable. One of the questions was also similar to that of the distinguished Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Prof. The bottom drawer. Since I am on two levels of representation both in the City of Zagreb and in this House I would like to see so we have some sort of moral or ethical dilemma. What if you have a child who got married and changed his last name? What about cases like that? So, you kind of indirectly exposed him to the court of the public, someone might not be able to bear that burden. But if the law is so, then all those within that circle must behave within the framework of the law. Well, I was just trying to make this clear once again, Professor, from the point of view of ethics. I think that's the key. The public can't be the only rule of something and it can't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3663	Thank you. The following came to the debate, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3664	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I have some experience in the work of the Committee itself, so I was myself president in one commission term. And looking at the dynamics thing, in the process, things change positively. Croatia is not the same in the 1990s in terms of conflict of interest and public morality and this is neither 2000 nor 2005, 08 nor 2016. But we have to look at things the way we do, we have what we have, as things stand, we have to look at them through the current law. By applying the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. And this law is actually a parliamentary view of conflict of interest both public and moral. And when we talk about the Committee, then we have to think about ourselves. When we talk about the Attorney General's report, then we have to think about ourselves because these are our bodies, our eyes, how public morality is formed. That's why my fundamental question is de lege of Ferenda colleague Podolnjak whether we're going to work on a parallel system quasi investigative commission or we're going to work on the ethical commission that fellow Dodig was talking about. If we are to be true to the will, Croatia passed the law in 2003 because it joined negotiations with the European Union. The committees on conflict-making interests do not have old democracies. And this is a little politics, but I'll tell you right now, the problem with Minister Black is not the Commission but the Croatian public. And that's the purpose of developing an institution of conflict of interest. That's the point. It therefore states in Article 1(2) the purpose of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, the conduct of public duties, the prevention of private influences on decision-making in the conduct of public duties, the strengthening of integrity. Whose? So are the bodies and ours. Objectivity, impartiality, transparency in the conduct of public duties, and strengthening the confidence of citizens in public authorities. Well, if it's my dilemma, can morale be imposed by punishment? Can society only be based on criminal matters? Are we just going to solve our relationship by punishing ourselves? We have experience in this, we think in independent Croatia we have changed criminal law 15 times. Even the Penal Code was changed. And did we move away a lot in the prevention of criminal acts? I don't know, that's what you need to see. It's a matter of deep analysis. It's very valuable, it's very valuable, and here many have also praised that the Commission on conflict-making of interest has been equipped. This is natural for praise, information, organizational, accommodation, etc. And it decides on those and MPs in the Croatian Parliament who yearly determine 120 billion public money costs only at the state level. 120 billion public money costs I'm on state level. From this money, if I remember the data correctly, at least 2 billion are spent from the budget through the public procurement system. In addition, 40 billion public money is spent outside the state budget through state-owned companies, through local self-government, regional self-government. We don't have any decisions about these things. I don't think we're going to have, I don't think we're going to have because he doesn't have the tools to investigate it. And even the state review that we have here is the strongest instrument, you tell me, and I know it, I just wanted to check out what you're establishing, correct recording of business events. So logic. And beyond that, it has to be done by the investigating bodies. That's the problem. So the problem is with us parliamentary deputies. I'll say, by the way, we don't need to cut the commission's order. But I'm afraid no one's going to take on eloquence, but over 60 or 70 MPs don't have a desk or a personal computer to work on. That's not acceptable. This is not acceptable if we want to be representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and decide on the interests of their, legal persons, so to business and those in Croatia. And that's what we decide. So and about... If he wants to do business in Croatia, we decide how he will do business and what he will gain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only dealing with cards, may the President of the Croatian Government forgive me, how will the Commission enter his current property card? Very difficult. Even if it was a huge amount of time, would you get accurate reports from the body where he worked? Does that make sense? Does that make sense? So I repeat that we must decide whether we are in the Croatian Assembly for the Verification of Public Morality, publicly in the Croatian Parliament. Then let's not represent just any narrow party interests. Then the question is, with us it's becoming a matter of political system because we're all addicted here, only some will admit it, and some won't. We're addicted to our position, our obligation to work, our families, our parties, our party bosses and everything else. It simply can't be solved by decree but by work, and that's why it's worth doing to the Committee what it does, regardless of how one of us disagrees with every move, it doesn't matter. There's one more thing I want to tell the Committee directly. You boast that it is possible to access the property card electronically, and I disagree because I repeat that there are 60 or 70 MPs who do not have their own computer and have to pray to someone, if they even work on a computer, they have to pray to someone to get a chance to join you. We who live or respect Gutenberg's system is our sacred paper, and I prefer to write on paper I have a house or a cottage and 17000 or 15000 salaries, rather than ask someone to open their computer to me and make arrangements with you. How are you going to organize it inside? It's not my duty to comment. It's my duty to provide you with what you're looking for in the data. In the end, you can still see the absurdity. The parent working body for the Committee which determines or tries to create public social morality is the Committee for Justice. So, a body that deals with the justice system, the state's attorney's office, the prosecution, the BUSKOK, not morals, not morals. And speaking of which, we are calling for the Administrative Court, and I have seen it as the President of the Commission, although it now has full jurisdiction, the Administrative Court will decide on a morale is very questionable. I respect the judges, I respect the judges, but now my colleague, Dodig, has said about what morals, public morality, his view of morals, or his judicial view of morality. This as a conclusion that I say it is not good that the main tools of the Commission to decide conflicts of interest are punishment. Well, a lot of people who got into the wrong street are gonna say I'm gonna pay 10,000 kuna, and I washed my... Or 15000 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we are interested in whether he is followed by the fate that you have told him with your honest decision and warned him that his behaviour in the realisation of public obligation is not in line with the expectations of citizens and legal persons in Croatia. So we return to the construction of a society that will not be regulated in sanctions, to punishment, but to public morality and shame when we do something that we cannot stand before the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3665	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3666	Mr. Leko, there's a lot I agree with what you said. There's one thing that's the only thing that made me answer the line. In fact, you mentioned that the public discovered the case of a minister, etc. We can't because the public at one point signalled something and then had certain implications, we can't put the entire public in a position to search for immoral, criminal and similar acts because their criteria aren't the same and their initial positions. This fact that it is possible for the public to discover what institutions cannot discover is a dangerous thesis that actually leads to the creation of a paranoid society where all enemies are, and it is our duty to seek them out, and then we are looking for them because we had a fight with someone, the grandfathers have had a fight, and now the grandkids will get revenge on someone. So it's good for citizens to report something that they know is even immoral, let's just leave the crime, even immoral. I totally agree with that. But I'm afraid by pushing the fox, we don't drive the wolf or the wolf out, so we're pushing the fox out. That's something. I'm actually amazed by the fact that we all trust each other, that no one trusts anyone. I don't know if this is how we achieve our overall desire to make a moral society more harmful than it does this model. It is not at all disputed that it is necessary for the Committee to conflict of interest. And I repeat again, I'm giving a high grade to their report. I'm just pliming with the methodology and the meaning of it all. But then that's it, then it's not about the commission. It's a matter of one thing if you want civil philosophy as society, as society positiones Thank you very much. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3667	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3668	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Dodig would certainly not sign any verdict that would be a matter of public decision. I'm a lawyer by the way, and only what I would have convinced myself would I have signed, only I would have made sure. And here I immediately said it was a political assessment and evaluation. That's why I said it was responsible for the man who proposed to his colleague, Black, so he replaced him in two days. I don't, not the Croatian public. He had to know that he had to stay straight or back up in front of public eyes. I'm not glad I have to say it, but that's because that's the way it is. So, I'm not saying that judges make decisions based on public opinion, and neither are we in the Parliament to succumb to public opinion. But things are just like I told you. ... And that's your rule of conduct in the Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I couldn't answer it 100 times either, that's right. It always remains the last opinion of the one who started arguing first. ... Yes, he can, though, always. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3669	Thank you. I'll just warn you what my colleague Bauk warned you about an hour ago, so we're running again, leaving the topic of this agenda. So I let go of the debate because it was an example for the sake of it, but I'm asking that we stick to the subject somehow. Here's the next one for the replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3670	Thank you very much. You have rightly directed all of us to put parliamentary representatives in the focus most often, and in fact they have no basic working conditions. So you mentioned there was no desk, no business space, and you said they had great conditions and a commission. They've got MPs, but we have to admit that these are very modest conditions. It is one apartment slightly larger adapted and 18 people there are working on this in fantastic conditions, compared to other state institutions in very modest conditions. Imagine 20 people in one apartment, and at the same time there are agencies and some other institutions that have an employee of 40 square meters of business space. It's a lot more than the office of a complete vice president of the Parliament. And no one above that, we all sleep over those facts. What's very important is you've talked about ethical behavior, so the law would have to contain ethical norms, not specifically write a law that doesn't concern ethics, and then we'll be passing a code of conduct. So the law itself would have to be ethical. Unfortunately, we're witnessing that we have laws that are against man but they're disabled anyway. We don't know by this law who the officials are? How is it possible that a state-owned company its management president is an official but when they establish those companies a daughter to whom they transfer all business, even more income and expenditure, an even more powerful function then that new administration or one leader is not an official and this queen is? That's how the law defines it. That one head or head of HBOR is not an official, that he is not the head of HRT, that he is not the head of FINA and who is everything? You can't even compare yourself to this. So we have to change the law in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3671	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3672	Thank you very much. You gave me one more chance to say what I wanted. So, of course, I am not objecting, but I support that the commission has a fixed space because it has to work. It wasn't the point of me objecting to them, but the point is to say once again you can't expect a parliamentary representative to know all the materials or even read them if there isn't a table and a place to do it. And that's below the level that MPs have in European countries because we also decide on things that we've never had a chance to study, so we should have at least organised for more advocates some advisors if we can't do it in private. We decide from atomic energy, the construction of a thermopower plant in Plomin, the construction of protective measures, I don't know about climate conditions, the America-Europe agreement, and let's be realistic how much we can inform ourselves in the Parliament about these things, and from who? So we have to raise our hand. That's what I'm talking about. We must therefore think that we must be more responsible to ourselves and to the citizens because we are deciding on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3673	Replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3674	Dear colleague Leko, I have answered the line because I am from your debate, and the debate that has been here all morning in the assembly is about the role of the committee in the political life of Croatia. I agree with you, however, that it is necessary to establish a measure in which the commission can tap into the data and privacy of an individual official. I therefore agree with the decision of the Administrative Court which I think of your proposal 3 years ago found that certain articles of the law were anti-constitutional, i.e. that it made it impossible for the commission in certain actions in which the Commission is intruding in the work of the judicial authorities in the Republic of Croatia. As one proverb says, "God of God and Emperor of Emperors", it seems to me that when the commission's work is in a certain way, it is the body according to which officials of the Republic of Croatia should provide fully transparent information about their property. However, further examinations should be part of the work of other bodies prescribed by the Constitution. And on that trail, it seems to me that the Constitutional Court has put out of force certain articles of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. And the other thing is what you also said, and that's part of how much should be the privacy of an individual official, especially his children? How much their children's property represents a public interest in the Republic of Croatia. So I am saying this because the debate so far has prompted me that it is indeed time, and this is also said by Mr Podolnjak that certain provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest had to be further elaborated more after the Constitutional Court had already passed for a full period of 3 years and had already given its decision in respect of certain provisions which may not have been well laid down in the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3675	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3676	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We have here said I would agree that it is necessary to analyse the current situation of legal governing conflicts of interest and the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. And there's no dispute between us I think there's nothing. Make it easier for the Committee to work and raise its visibility in Croatian society. My question is whether it is good for the Sanctions Committee to resolve the conflict of interest remains open from both legal and moral aspects. From a legal point of view, I'd like to ask who's the prosecutor in front of the board and who's representing the parties before the Committee. Because, Your Honor, in the form of judges, the commission appears. But it has to be reported as a prosecutor. Because he only has the right to initiate the procedure. I have already said that it is questionable how the administrative court, regardless of who has the cleavage, can decide on the ethics of the move. And we have a problem in conflict of interest precisely ethics. That is why it is important to explain itself well. And when I spoke about the public, I said that many countries in the European Union, old democracies do not have a body that monitors conflicts of interest. That's why I'm saying... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3677	Replicated representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3678	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. So the distinguished representative, Mr. Joseph Leco, spoke very well of this issue, of course as a longtime representative and president of the Parliament. And I wouldn't really have anything to polymerize with, but he did give me a certain creamworth for a particular replica and certain questions. The matter of the Commission's ingenuity, I would like to say that it has done one necessary and very useful job. However, his authority on sanctioning is subject to the law, not the Commission itself. And I come from the country, from Bosnia and Herzegovina where this matter is so to say processed in a different way and where foreigners to say so have influenced the writing of the laws themselves as well as in many other things, so these issues actually treat the Central Election Commission, which is a permanent body that has the authority of monetary penalties until the withdrawal of mandates in the case of conflict of interest. Of course, if we want to go that way, then the law has to regulate it. But what I would like to say here right now is the adjustment of the commission's work to the law itself and the Constitution. So I'm going to put it this way on an average average, here from a stationary computer and a laptop I switched to pills but I spent three hours, 3.5 hours in collaboration with a co-worker, a co-worker from the club. What am I talking about? When I got to the address in Bosnia and Herzegovina, he didn't receive. So then we had to call the board, so we had to call the IT guy to change the program to make it work. And the Constitution and the law recognizes a representative who can come outside the Republic of Croatia. The same thing was about the phone, so we lost our nerve, so we put the club phone here to be totally honest, so I had to fix it later. So that's why I called here to say it, too. And second thing, O.K., electronic pattern okay. This enables both the Committee and the data to be innovated. But when, before we cross You should take, have... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] what data is required so that we can find them before we can access the computer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3679	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3680	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So nothing important differed the position of the Republic of Croatia in the accession process from the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I was also a member of the Constitution Committee and the Legislative Committee when we joined the European Union, so I was also a member of the Committee and I know what the views were and who was coming to our instruction from the European Union. But past tense, we're done, we're moving on. And as for this information literacy, I don't know how written I am, I've been serving a computer for 15 years at a level that I've had enough. Unfortunately, I have a home computer, a computer, a 2000 program that isn't compatible with the House Committee program, and I couldn't send it, it just blocks it. We don't talk on the same level, the Committee tells me. You didn't buy the program. So I call the expert, he says it can't be completed anymore, you need to give three thousand or four thousand kuna, so we're going to pay you, so it's not worth it, etc. So it's not just a good approach. There are people who use Gutenberg's style and technique and those who use modern technique. And why would we now disabling those who love written words and paper? There's nothing to argue about. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3681	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3682	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Leko, you have well noticed that the regulation of this electronic form of a report on the property status of an official, which has been applied since 15 January, is that there are deficiencies that are evident and actually difficult and could not be justified by some particular security risks listed in this report, the security risks of the abuse of immunity. Well, I mean, if we fill out the uniform form with all our data, with all our assets, and verify to the public notebook and get it to the Committee, I think it's a credible piece of information and that no one can abuse or endanger or send a wrong report for us. Since this promotion has technologically improved the system and made it easier and all praises for it, you must finally again sign a self-printed form since there is no electronic signature. And that's the problem you say, among other things, that there are those who should have been able to deliver in writing certified by the public notary, and then there really isn't any controversy, simple as jam, and some that are flexible, so let's say for me. And I'd rather have filled it that way because I always have some extras, some changes and this and that and never end. That's how much thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3683	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3684	I didn't want to, and it wasn't the point of my debate that I would raise the commission's educational role to this level, it's not a problem that we would meet, but I just think we should have made it possible, and so did you and I. Therefore, we should thank the Committee for teaching us a little.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3685	Replica esteemed representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3686	Dear fellow... You called me a little bit asking me what kind of model I'd be for the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I'll tell you the truth. I think that the best, one of the better anti-corruption models, is the one that exists in our neighbouring Slovenia, so something in terms of the anti-corruption commission model, the Commission that has teeth, which can act actively and which in the far line you are certainly familiar with has initiated the procedure because of the difference in assets of the former Slovenian prime minister and mayor of Ljubljana. So he has very strong powers. And I, by the way, would like to see us at the Most, in favour of stronger anti-corruption activity and, in that sense, all the bodies that can contribute to it, and such a commission would be welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3687	Thank you. The esteemed representative, Josip Leko, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3688	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm staying with my fellow Vice President, so I'll tell you what. To fight corruption, we have police, USKOK, State's Attorney's Office, National Council for the fight against corruption, the Croatian Parliament, and for the assessment of conflicts of interest we only have the Commission. And yet another important fact I want to point out that I would normally say any corrupt act is a crime, but any conflict of interest is not a crime, not even a crime. Then again in that version, we would rely on the easier and more visible in public to punish so as not to build public morality, and that's where we're done. This is my point of view, and I would, of course, be happy to participate in the development of a supplement of the Commission Act, and it does not mean that my position will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3689	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to individual debates and this is the first respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3690	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will look back on the report a little bit in 2015 because it is also part of this report in some parts. But we will start with the definition of Article 2 of the Law which says that conflict of interest exists when the private interests of officials are contrary to public interest, and especially when the private interest of officials affects its impartiality in the exercise of public duty, so we have two more definitions or-or. And we also have that official or general definition of conflict of interest which says that it is a name for situations where an individual who performs a certain public function or activity comes to the opportunity by his decision or other action to favor himself or himself with close persons, social groups and organisations, and at the heart of the public or persons who have given him confidence. The conflict concerns conflict between personal interest on one side and public interest on the other. And now let's look at this report all that's chosen from local to regional to state level at one point enters the very conflict of interest. It's all listed. We have a former president, current president, former prime minister, former prime minister, many local leaders, mayors. It means that in the very law when we apply it to everything chosen at a certain point if there is a will of the Commission, it is likely that a certain level of conflict of interest can be established, so we have examples here for the island of Krk 7 Commissioners and 1 mayor are the leaders. They are in the congregation of a municipal society. And they're talking to the commission whether we're in conflict of interest as owners of this company, asking the commission if we're in conflict? Then you write them, you're not in conflict because you work for the general interest. Is it possible they're in conflict? And that's the question. I remember one moment when counterpart Lesar reports on a single submission almost the entire bus of ministers from the former government to the Committee of Conflict of Interests just because they were elected, which requires them to join some supervisory committees and oversee the business of some public companies. But we've all learned before now before we become necessarily something we have to ask the commission if we're or can we do something. And some progress compared to the last 10 years is obviously visible. But doubts, they will probably be permanent and will last as long as there are politicians and officials but also as long as there are commissions because who is to determine exactly what is and which is not in conflict between personal or public in any decision. The question arises as to how the minister can determine, for example, that the decision has given a certain job to a company that is taking his friend somewhere in the fourth part. How will the Committee of Conflict of Interest determine whether he has favored his friend? How many of these procedures have been carried out? Whether or not the commission enters public tenders so that it can find out the companies and then the owners of the company and then that subcontractor, etc. and all this is possible in political action or in decision-making. In 2014, 42 sessions were held at which 117 decisions were taken to initiate the procedure and 36 decisions on the non-starting of the procedure. We see that here is the law itself and the Commission's action that the Commission for the conflict of interest has given officials a total of 481 thousand kunas of sanctions. We can conclude that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is also a revenue part of the Croatian budget. They're not small funds. And yet I say in the mistakes of those whom the people have chosen and immediately who become in some way the target of that same people or citizens because we can call him or suspect him of whatever we think we should suspect at that point. In the period from 1 May 2011 to 15 January 2015, the information services provided the Commission with APIS IT. The total cost of implementing the new Commission information project was 305 767 kuna without VAT. The new office business solution is applicable from 1 January 2015 and the new website is applicable from 15 January 2015. We remember 2015, the 5th month, the affair of taking property cards off the Internet. So, the commission has entered a new information system, said these old ones are unfavourable for us, we'll take a new one. And what's happening to us? It happens to us that at one point in the beginning of the 5th month, the property cards of all Internet officials disappear. What do the media conclude? Officials don't want to see their property. Look at the headlines of that time. They are opposed to having their property revealed to them. What's the government doing? The Government shall replace the heads of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, the Director and the Deputy Director. They were then removed, and no new ones have been appointed to this day. But they still work at that same agency even though this House has held a debate about their shift and has never made a new decision on their replacement. The way he's acting, that's all. What kind of relationship do the commission and the agency go into then? The agency claims so we didn't tell you to download all the data but only part of it, the commission said you didn't, but we didn't have a technical solution after the funds spent to honor your decision in 8 days. Who died here? In the end, only those who are on public duty, officials, because they wanted to hide something. These two who have been replaced, and in fact have not been removed, and the commission has continued its work. I think that was to be cleared up to the end and that the commission had yet to make an apology to the public. But it didn't work out. As for today, a lot of what's been said is who or isn't an official. Well, we have a recent situation where I read it again because it's amazing to me. That one official i.e. I think he's an official, but apparently he's not entitled to it after the court's decision says HEP has to get him back to work as former president of the administration, pay him 1.1 million kuna, pay him back Audi A6, pay him his life insurance and pay him back his official phone. The maximum outstanding monthly salary fee is for 2015. 47,000 kuna. That commission has nothing to ask? Are we gonna keep on doing that? We're not gonna ask him? Why? The government appoints him, the government appoints him the Supervisory Board who oversees him, the government replaces him. But he's not a state official. With these managerial contracts? It's a question of what we're going to do not only with this, but with all the public enterprises. And it's probably time for a new step now. I personally believe that everything the Government has appointed its decisions should be in the category of government official. He had received 500 kuna in some board of directors or on the board of directors, he had received at such a monthly level. There's no reason to exclude them from this story. In the end, he was also removed by the government's decision for some kind of conflict within a party. And eventually, the damage turned out to be greater than the commission earned all year working and contributing to the state budget. And there's a lot, a lot more. And we can't go through this law at all but through your actions into the depth of all these relationships, let alone bring ready-made courts. What do we have next? The administrative dispute against the decisions of the commission in which sanctions have been imposed for breach of the provisions of the law has also been initiated by two prosecutors appointed by the Croatian Parliament as acting officers. The Director-General of HRT and a member of the Council for Electronic Media. The Council of Electronic Media, we recently had a play, a court of morality, but we're running the Administrative Court in part of ethics or morals whether I'm a state official or not. That's the question. Whether we allow it to continue or we will make it clear, gentlemen and you in the Council for Electronic Media are state officials, you were appointed there by this Parliament or the Government when we talk about the director of Croatian Radio Television. And that decision, here, will pass his term, we won't know if he was a state official or not, whether the commission should have asked him anything or not. Whether its property is larger or smaller than many others who are referred to as such or as such in public space. And finally, perhaps the most important thing. When we report everything we've got, there are children left. The property of the children doesn't have to be reported. Where did we get into that space? Can we transfer everything to our children and have no property? And that's a possibility because they're either independent or they have their own lives or they create for themselves through other things. So we're constantly thinking, i.e. what is or is not moral and what the Commission can or cannot determine and we see that there is indeed a lot of things in the public space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3691	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one is the distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3692	In your debate you opened up one important issue for me and the important question, the question of people who have very much the means that are far more likely to find themselves on the other side and this law, actually do not fall still there, but that is also the problem, but also other laws and below each one of them are radar. It is not a solution for them to be appointed officials, but rather for the decision to amend the law and to pass the law here by identifying certain civil servants who are in certain positions and who directly decide more than we do here and even more than the Government. They're absolutely out of interest. And that is one particular question whether it will fall under this body or someone else, and that should also be agreed, or the law should resolve it. The question that you have raised and which I am stressing in particular now is the question that America met in the 1970s when it introduced the property card obligation for its administration, not this state, federal rank, but for officials and tenants. It happened to them that during that period, as soon as the law was passed, they remained almost 40% of the best shot but it took a certain time to team up again and they are in such a commitment. You also open the question of what about the one who gives his property to one society, to another society, to another society, to another society, or to public competitions, and at all loses that chain and continuity. There is also a question of a secret society regulated by our Law on Commercial Companies, which was even discussed by the Constitutional Court in '99. The year he said the same thing on asking if there was a legitimate concern for monetary malfeasance and dishonesty it was absolutely out of reach because by law we didn't regulate it. So it's possible that someone puts all their assets in secret society, it's unpublished, and it can't be published. Then, he doesn't answer at all. for the consequences and outcome of the company’s business but benefits. [[Intruder: Time.]] But that's a question of what the law is right about, and that's what the President of the Committee is talking about, what we, as a legislative body, should do to improve the whole situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3693	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3694	Thank you very much. I hope this debate will give new instructions and new directions in what direction this law changes because many examples, I say from the past few years, show that there are really absurd situations. At the same time, he was a member of several supervisory boards of a subsidiary within the HEP. And he controlled himself in some way, he brought himself into a situation obviously to be removed, but he also brought himself into a situation that the state eventually had and compensated for all of it. And we'll never know what his property is. I'm just saying one example. There are very, very many examples like that. But are we, on the other hand, concerned about whether the mayor may be a member of the congregation of a community society, because he could possibly learn about what kind of conflict? With what? Well, I think that's very clear stuff. And then, as politicians, we surface, especially parliamentary deputies, and we have constant day-to-day interrogations. Here, the subject of great privilege is now being opened. At the same time, no one asks a representative in the European Parliament what he has there. We also finance these representatives in the European Parliament. No one has ever questioned him how much he has received, what he is paid for, what he has all of his privileges. And they say we don't have any privileges and the facts are completely different. And all politicians become the same, and then the court of morality begins. And I think the Committee through this report has shown that it has entered the arbitration sphere in segments where I think maybe I shouldn't. And that's kind of the integrity of politicians, officials, but even making certain decisions by the government, as well as interpreting certain laws in order to create some sort of opinion on this and that official. I don't think it's supposed to be the commission's job to go that far because it's kind of becoming a DORH in a small part.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3695	Thank you very much. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3696	Thank you. Comrade Boric, otherwise this is a debate in which I agree with you to a greater extent than usual but you have had certain inaccuracies that still need to be corrected because of the record. As regards the conflict between two independent agencies that, two independent institutions that correspond to the Croatian Parliament, which are the AZOP and the Committee for Conflict of Interest, it is true that the government has proposed a resolution of the leaders of the AZOP but has not resolved them. And the government's motion for resolution was the consequence of exactly what you said, the impression that officials themselves wanted their property cards to be hidden, and then the government was forced to refer it to the Parliament to discuss it. And there was a united debate on this resolution together with the amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and where it was then stated that this group was not covered by the Personal Data Protection Act, which was otherwise written by the Constitutional Court in its 2012 decision which the AZOP did not read well. However, as is the case with an independent institution, it was ultimately decided not to use them in such a way that they were collateral victims and only received public criticism. As for HEP and the gentleman you mentioned, if I know the law well, he is an official in terms of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, so what you said we will not know the property does not simply stand. Here's the president to confirm that. And as far as HRT is concerned, everyone has the right to judicial protection. However, the sanctions imposed on the principal's director have been carried out, something has been denied from his salary. Here comes the president again, so let him get paid, and let him prove in court that he is not an official. Of course, it would be better if it was written in a proverb or it didn't say what Mr. Leco and Mr. Podolnjak were talking about. Here's some inaccuracy just for educational reasons, a little bit to get the subject done better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3697	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3698	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, if he's an official, he probably should've been out there with his property card, but he's ours. So I've been checking, those cards are gone. Not only his, but of all the directors of public companies, there is no more or less. Look for them yourself, and you'll see if they're there or not. If he's an official, and you're saying that, and I'm saying that there's doubt or not, and that the law didn't make that clear, and then she interpreted it, the commission interpreted it as they thought it was, and that story that we were talking about, which I mentioned. What does the President of the Committee say on 4.5 last year? The commission is forbidden to publish certain data from officials when we talk about the agency. That's your first statement. After two days, only part of the data was requested to be removed by the agency. Then you say the Commission didn't say that the agency should, that the agency had ordered the removal of all the cards and then we removed the explanation because we couldn't find a technical solution for 8 days but it would be very soon. And then in the end, that's what I'm gonna pay the officials for. They were named for eight days as those who wanted to hide their property. They didn't order it, they didn't decide it, they didn't end up correcting it because we got here a debate that lasted almost all day if we remember it well, two members of the agency, leading people. And recently we discussed their report and the director himself said that he himself doesn't know whether he's the director or not anymore. For the Parliament has not appointed anyone, and the Government has replaced him with its decision. And that story, I say it's not over, but we've gone a little too far today. The question is how far we can go and how deep we can go, assessing what is ethical, which is moral and what is allowed by an official who is directly elected by the citizens, which is the mayor or the mayor. Can he be a member of the congregation? So it says if it's of interest to local self-government. Well, every local self-government has a communal society. It's probably the best interest, so what's the commission do about it? I think it should be normal procedures. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3699	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3700	Thank you very much. She's already confirmed it by her colleague Dali. So, Koračević was obliged to surrender. Now he was, uh, Mrs. President Oreshkovic. Okay, I'm sorry. I hope he doesn't mind, no. So he forgot to surrender as much as I remember. Now I don't know if he turned himself in while he was president of the HEP administration, although you're right. So there's a question of what duties people should be teaching in the first place and whether that expansion makes any sense at all, except a little party for the people to see how much someone has property. Because I know, for example, in a ministry where I worked to directly influence and make decisions of concrete financial on entrepreneurs having a much greater impact on my former employees, associates or chiefs of sectors and services than did the minister. This is essentially the point of people seeing the property of those they chose directly. That's why I'm not a supporter of the expansion of the base, because it doesn't ultimately bring any excessive benefit, but I am a supporter of some institutions that are very important to fit in. For example, it is amazing for me that still Croatia's Bank for Reconstruction and Development, its administration and the chairman of the administration are not inside, and they decide on 30 billion loans each year and a dozen billion. It is a direct influence, it is they make decisions, they are appointed by the Croatian government directly, and they are not there. Now that's why it's not here, which is why it's missed probably why someone didn't pass. But that should be included in some future period. As far as depth is concerned, the depth is always questionable whether the commission can go very deeply. How can the State's Attorney's Office not even trace some apartments or determine how deep Mr. Fiolic in Sanader's garage he gave millions? It's very difficult then for the Committee to establish. Deep is a relative term, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3701	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3702	Thank you very much. A fellow Maras and that example, but also many others who may come out in the time to come will show how good the work of the Commission was, perhaps. And what they were able to discover in view of their assignments and the law at their disposal. Here's an example from the report. During 2014, the Commission requested the IRS data needed to carry out regular data checks for 48 officials. By the end of that year, the Commission had received the necessary data and documentation for only 5 officials from 48 requests submitted with the delivery of data. The meeting found that the IRS was unable, that there were no resources, sufficient resources to deal with their demands. What else can we comment on? So one body that can expose you in any part says we're not even that interested, we don't have resources, we're dealing with tax debts, tax returns, solutions, etc., but for the Committee of Conflict of Interest we don't have time for these 43. We haven't been able to find out from them for almost a year. I'd like to see here that future report says who we asked for by name and last name and for whom the IRS failed to give it. It would be okay for us to know because this number is like a number, it means nothing but the ineffectiveness of the IRS but the inability to do your job properly. We're all talking today about a need for improvement, I hope that through the next law that comes to the debate and that there will be a change and addition of the existing solution and some of the doubts that will still be shown here today. I've only brought out these who are very convincing to me. And I don't think you should think about who's a state official. Anyone appointed by the government regardless of where she named him for me is a state official. And let such a regulation be introduced, but good about it when it's law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3703	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3704	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. We have reached the conclusion here at the end of this debate that it is necessary in law to define the body that will lead the list of officials, we do not have it. We have a law to settle. It seems to me that this has been the soreness of the commission led by Hydra, the Information Agency of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, if I've heard correctly, if I don't apologize. But what is not an open question today is that you mentioned in your debate that the commission has a large or small authority of the State's Attorney's Office, or so it turns out that it has the authority of the State's Attorney's Office. I don't think there is, that it is precisely defined in the law which are the powers of the commission, in which way the official can be punished, warned and so on. And what concerns me as an agent, and it seems to me today that no one has asked me a question, is that the data and security of the data officers are going public. So, transparently it should be, that's what we decided in the Parliament. Now, you see, it says there's someone out there who's got a million, $2 million, 22 million. Someone's got a 50 000-dollar Rolex watch, someone's got this, someone's got this, and someone's got this, and they can transparently get whoever wants to get into it and see it, even those who do the thieving. So some high-ranking officials question if they write, and should write everything they have, question the safety of themselves and their children. So, in some new law, we're going to have to think about everything because given the environment in which we live, it seems to me that after this assembly, the witch hunt has begun. So the media published everything and everything they needed and didn't need. So it's okay transparent pay, this, that. Now, look, the one who saved it is like this, the one who didn't save it is poor and doesn't belong there. This one has a watch, this one doesn't have a watch. So there are issues of everything and everything and security issues that no one has ever asked when we discuss this issue. I hope that we'll get into a situation where we define what happens and it's very likely that it can happen because you know how people who deal with such actions are certainly not fair to the ministers and colleagues sitting here. About that later, God forbid I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3705	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3706	Thank you very much. I'm in doubt whether or not the commission got the list because the report says double. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the President of the Republic of Croatia will submit to the Commission a list of persons subject to the appointment of a choice or confirmation no later than 6 months after the date of entry into force of this law. Although the law came into force in March 2011. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the President of the Republic of Croatia have provided the Commission with a list of persons subject to designation within the meaning of Article 3(2). Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest only at the invitation of the Commission in March 2013. So we only have the Government and the President of the Republic or the President. But we don't have a Parliament. Since the Parliament has not yet provided a list of persons subject to the choice, designation or confirmation, the report shall then continue. Here, we're clear. Let the Croatian Parliament agree here and bring who is the state official's list and let's see what happens next. Because I say everything else we enter an area where we will constantly find injustice. Why him and why not me? And they're all funded from let's say that kind of public money.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3707	Thank you. Now the word will be taken by the Honorable President of the Commission, Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3708	Thank you. For the sake of precision in the debate, I am obliged to clarify that there is a difference between the categories of state official, official and public official within the meaning of this law. State officials are the ones specifically mentioned in the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, and that law defines the rights of that category. In part, the circle coincides with what is prescribed in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. This law prescribes a circle of officials who have obligations, but the circle of those public officials is much wider, for example the members of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, officials who have obligations under this law and do not have the rights under the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. The third category is public officials appointed by the Croatian Parliament, the Government or the President of the Republic of Croatia. The law has prescribed the obligation of these bodies to provide the Commission with a list of such public officials in a clear manner so as to know in due time who these people are subject to the competence of the Commission. The law also provided that such a list must be submitted within a certain period of time from the entry into force of the law itself. We heard today that the law came into force in March 2011, but the members of this committee called on us the moment we entered into office these lists were not welcomed. We have received lists from both the government and the president and the current president, but there is no such list in relation to those appointments made by the Croatian Parliament. This report stressed that, for the purposes of the establishment of the register, it is purely for the purpose of legal certainty so that the address of the legal norms know what is expected of them and what is followed by these obligations under this law, we have interpreted that, for example, under this category of duty-holder appointed by the Croatian Parliament, this applies to the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television, to members of the Council for Electronic Media, but also to members of the administrative boards of other regulatory agencies appointed by the Croatian Parliament. We thus gave the catalogue of criteria that the Croatian Parliament can respect when assessing whether each appointment should be covered by the application of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. As far as members of the company management of the majority state-owned company are concerned, the law is clear, they are officials. The fact is that in relation to individual former members of HEP d.d. certain property cards are no longer publicly available on websites. I'd remind you it's Article 20. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is explicitly prescribed and the time limit, i.e. the duration of obligations under this law. For each official after the end of his term of office, the obligation to submit property cards shall be valid for the next 12 months, which means that after the expiry of this period, if a person no longer behaves any public duty, his property card shall be removed from public publication on the website of the Commission. That may be the answer to the question for which a single property card is not available at this time. I would also like to say that we in our work have pointed out that, in fact, the circle of officials should be extended to members of the management of the daughter's company, those companies in the majority state ownership, and in relation to the permitted memberships in the supervisory committees, especially when it comes to HEP, I would like to remind that the Commission had procedures that we had against all members of the management of the then HEP that were on the supervisory boards of their daughters' companies. At that time, we have determined that the earlier meeting of the Committee, interpreting the provisions of this law, gave an interpretation that the provisions of the law were not actually applicable to them, or that it explicitly interpreted that members of the HEP administration could be on the supervisory boards of the daughter's company. This commission has taken a different view and a different view. And that is where we, in order to ensure our preventive action and all other state-owned companies, have instructed our actions to comply with the new interpretation of this committee's calling. As for the official's membership and so does the mayor in the chambers of commercial societies, this is not about any arbitration, not even about the possibility of arbitral interpretation by the Commission because the law is explicit and clear. All those who are considered officials within the meaning of the provisions of this Act may not be members of the Management Board and of the Supervisory Boards of Commercial Companies. The members of the assembly are not mentioned here and indeed you have at local level almost the usual practice that mayors and municipal chiefs or their deputies are members of the congregations of those companies where these units of local self-government have shares in ownership or in the underlying capital. In relation to the situation created in 2015 on the solution of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, I would above all point out that it will be detailed and explained in a report that the Committee is obliged to submit by 31 May of this year. However, it can already be read in this report that when a new electronic form came into force, the new Commission website and when the Commission moved on to a new IT provider, the APIS Commission took over a little less than 6,000 property cards. It is the reports of the property that have been submitted in writing. In relation to the Agency’s personal data protection solution, there is a 2011 solution which just referred to this written form. In that opinion and the indication of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, there was no objection to the content of the previously valid written form. I believe that all those who exercise public duty in several consecutive mandates and who have personal experience and in the content of the previous written form and of the new electronic form see or can personally testify to what data are publicly published and which data are not available for public publication What it is, [[Intruder: Time.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Time.]] As I said, regarding this issue, the Committee will be made clear in detail in the next report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3709	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3710	Thank you, Mr. President. Just for a little while, Madam President, given that we're talking here, not too much, but we're talking about the IT system and the APIS company, I'd just like to ask you to let us know in response to the replica when we first signed a contract with the APIS, so was it before 2012 or after 2012, because of some illusions about the connection of the APIS with this or that political option? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3711	They will respond to the replica of the Honorable President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3712	On page 3, the report explicitly speaks on the basis of the documentation we found in the Commission’s office, so from 1 May 2011 to 15 January 2015, this is the period during which IT services were provided to the Committee by the company APIS. So for us, it was an inherited condition. The documentation shows that the first contract entered into force in May 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3713	Thank you very much. Here's what we're going to do now is we're going to take one break, normally until 3:00, and then we're going to continue the individual debates. Thank you very much. It's 13:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3714	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] It is up to the honourable representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to say that I was very happy during the morning when I saw that this assembly is full of MPs, because I think this topic is extremely important for all of us MPs and for two reasons. First we are state officials and as such we are both subject to the work and procedures of the Committee and generally conflict of interest as concepts. And on the other hand, we are just those people who define the rules of the game either through the law, whether through the powers we give to the Commission, whether through filling the holes in the law that apparently and clearly exist and the commission in their report on them, some of them pointed out. And in this morning's debate, we could hear many additional holes that exist in our legislation that would certainly scratch if we wanted an effective and quality system to fight conflicts of interest, fight against abuse of official duty and against corruption. And just those three social deviations, I see as something that breaks the fundamental values of a democratic modern society. They're very harmful and we just have to fight them all together. They also endanger the constitutional rights of our citizens, the rule of law and the legal order. There was a lot of talk about ethics and morality. If there is any need for one structural social reform, it is in this area, because without enough ethics and morals in public policy and behaviour we will not improve anything in this society. If we even create a little better material value, we risk someone illegally putting it in their pocket. Corruption and abuse of official duty as well as conflict of interest also reduce the ability of state authorities to fight these deviations. Because if such people sit in organs that need to respond to such deviations, then we cannot expect effective work. But there's a thing or medal there's another side. We are often faced with another phenomenon, which is that state authorities do not give sufficient support to government officials who refuse to bribe or refuse to be part of corruption or abuse of official duty. And that happens, these people are often demonized publicly, against them being run, and the public media haranga is moving. It is very often funded by different associations, lobbys, interest groups, organised crime, and sometimes I have to say and orchestrate beyond the borders of our country. In this respect, the state authorities must, in my opinion, provide quality protection to civil servants who resist corruption and abuse of duties and must, inter alia, be involved in counterintelligence. Citizens are extremely important. Of course, because of them we're all here, we want to improve the situation in our society. But mistrust in state institutions, mistrust in state officials, feelings of impotence and apathy, the team is bigger every day while these three deviations are present in our society. And that's why we have to fight them, and the best fight against these deviations is to prevent me. And in prevention, of course the repressive apparatus must exist in case there is a violation of the law and that it can be sanctioned. In prevention, what is penicillin for corruption, for conflict of interest, for abuse of official duty is transparency. When jobs are transparent, when the work of officials is transparent, when work processes and administrative procedures are clear and transparent space for corruption is much smaller. And the former government of Prime Minister Milanovic has achieved quite a lot in the area. I will just remind you that before the end of our term, we have received the World Open Authority Partnership Award as the government that has achieved the greatest success, the greatest shift, the greatest progress in the field of transparency in Europe, in the opinion of 20 international evaluators. And the initiative includes all democratic, most democratic states of the world and was launched by Barack Obama. Further on transparency and... The transparency of the former government also says a poll among Croatian journalists who also confirmed that the former government of Prime Minister Milanovic was the most transparent government, the Croatian government so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we talked enough about ethics this morning. What we have in the recommendation here Committee is an ethical code that should be passed in Parliament. This is recommended by GRECO and there is another task that we must not ignore as parliamentary representatives if we are serious about what we say and if we wish to support our words with our actions. And I want to publicly condemn the conflict of interest, corruption or abuse of official duty, and I don't think that it should simply become a behavior that is tolerated in this society, nor the patterns of success that most people follow in one society, should be based on these deviations. And it's often enough for us to just say how much you have in your bank account, so that you're considered a successful person. So, there are no pardons here, there's no silence here, no matter whether it's an individual, whether it's an organization or not, God forbid political parties, which is what voters should be counting on when they vote. Full support for anti-corruption authorities and those involved in the fight against conflicts of interest, that is, the commission, should be public, should be loud in both words and action. So political support is something that is inevitable if we want to have an effective system. The commission has done a good job in these few years, given the technical conditions in which it works. We see in the report that they are quite embroiled as well as the number of people they have, and the number of officials they must cover in their work. They warned of shortcomings in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and of them, in my opinion, the Parliament must not remain indifferent. I'll just mention a few of those holes in the law of indiscriminateness. For example, on page 20 and 21, the Commission suggests that in cases where a disproportionate balance is established between assets at the end of the term of office and at the beginning of the term of office, the commission cannot do anything but possibly submit a criminal application. But we all know that this disproportionateity does not have to be the result of a criminal offence and that law enforcement authorities do not necessarily have to act on it in the way the commission imagined. I'm curious, in fact, if there have been so many criminal reports, in what way have the state authorities acted in charge of prosecution and whether it's satisfactory or must be done in law? Then, it seems also to me that the Constitutional Court on page 24 and 25 of your report said that it had abolished the authority to adopt the rules in the process of verifying the property cards of the officials and that it had done so for the third reason why they were brought into a legal situation in which they should not be brought under the rules governing the commission. And that such a rule of procedure must be passed by the Parliament. If that's the case, then there's another assignment for this Parliament that I think he should bring. In this context, it is also important to mention the public work of the commission in which the principle of public work and the debate in which it initiates proceedings against officials that he doesn't even know was launched, the media finds out that such a procedure has been initiated. This is not good, and I think that such a Rules of Procedure of the Commission should prescribe the commission's obligation to contact the official before he initiates the procedure so that he may be manifested because there may be sufficient arguments in his case that would not then be initiated and thus would not be publicly demonised by an individual official. As regards the education of officials on page 38, the report is exhaustively stated what the commission is doing and the project in local and regional self-government is doing quite well. I would suggest that such a thing be made for parliamentary representatives in the Parliament, either through a round table or through a lecture to get to know each other better with the law, our rights and our obligations. And especially what the law gives authority in certain cases to the commission to interpret its specific provisions. And it would be good for all of us to know which direction the commission is going and whether we are all here to say on the same page. I would particularly be interested in the comparative practices of other countries as well as the good practices of other countries in this area. However, it is also important to note that the Commission’s practices should also discuss situations where the commission is on its own initiative to initiate and decide in percentages because of the breach of the principle set out in Article 5 of the Law that the work of the commission would not be interpreted as a particular political arbitration. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and once again full support for the commission's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3716	Thank you. We have two replicas in this debate. The first one is Irena Vuksanovic Petrijevcanin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3717	In his presentation, he mentioned political support. I would say that it was not appropriate, regardless of what was done in that sense because there was a clear difference here between real estate and movables and what was acquired before and what was obtained so far during the term of office, and the other is money in the account or in the stocking, and the other is real estate. The Constitutional Court says the commission should only deal with preventive administrative measures. So what kind of political support is that? Well, if the commission only needs to deal with preventive measures and so says the Constitutional Court and it is not what other measures will take tell me then who will determine the difference between regular incomes and money that someone has? And that's not in line with those regular incomes. How many examples is it that the official was responsible for some financial disproportionateness, not because of watches or real estate, but because of financial disproportionateness? I wonder what the problem is with the commission if it determines the financial disproportionateness to file a criminal report? The problem is that the competent criminal authorities cannot comply with this application because it cannot indicate what would have been the actual event or the action because it has illegally earned money as a result. So, the main question is if, after the Constitutional Court's decision, it is not the panel that is responsible and in the current legal order it is not clearly defined then who is, then, who is in charge? So that's what I'm talking about, if someone gets paid after four years, they're both clear to their spouse and children.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3718	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3719	Yeah, but you've been letting some of them go 20 seconds longer. Good, I can't finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3720	Replica response, distinguished representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3721	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, I think we agree, the political will must exist and it must not only be declarative, it must simply stem from our actions, our activities, our actions. So let us take each and every one of our own examples to other citizens and show that political will in this way. If the Constitutional Court has abolished certain provisions of the law or given certain interpretations, it obliges us, which does not mean that it is automatic, that I should be under quotes to say the Committee made impotent, it is only placed in the frameworks provided by our Constitution. But it's up to us as parliamentarians and in this House and Parliament as an institution, as legislation in this country to fill all the gaps. So if the Commission cannot conduct a certain kind of procedure for constitutional reasons, someone else who has and powers arising from the Constitution and the law can. It is therefore up to us to make the system effective and all-inclusive using all the state bodies in our country. Therefore, there is what is very important that we must see for ourselves where the holes are with the help of those who are in practice strengthening as much as we can their ingenuity and their actions in practice. Otherwise, when we talk about concrete things, then very often I have the impression that we do not have a problem in determining property within the country, very often the problem of the established property that is located outside the borders of our homeland. Why doesn't the Committee have the right to access bank accounts? There are certain restrictions, too, but if that's the problem, then let's do it another way, respecting the Constitution and the laws. Because if we don't respect the rule of law, for certain reasons, we'll always break through the legal order and have some reason why we do it, we won't get far, we'll destroy the full legal order we're building. Let's build it up with a clear goal, with a clear vision that corruption is not welcome in this country, that conflict of interest is not welcome in this country, that abuse of official duty is not welcome
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3722	Another replica, the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3723	Dear President, I don't know, sometimes I get the impression that we live in separate dimensions. We have on one side people who are... with speeches and what's reality in the field? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 66 we're on... corruption there in the basement with other post-kmunist countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Neither do we have a center, an anti-corruption center, like in states like Ukraine, nor do we have... Courts, we have corruption at all levels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've made a good country that looks like that former failed country we're paying about six billion dollars in former Yugoslavia's debt that went down in '83. years of kleptocracy inertness. We have the same problem today, we have no analyticals. I sometimes think that we live in a world out there of the unclassified and not in the real,... Real, it's a virtual world where we live today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why are the biggest corruption affairs still in the state's attorney's office up and not being resolved systematically? It's DUDI, the tax administration. Well, that's what the dead stole. You've got 103 million kunas from postmortem aid. What's going on? This is a question for our partners there, why Croatia was deliberately evicted from social... Development? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These people contribute 16 billion kuna every year to this country without whom this country would collapse. These people don't have the right to vote, they have the formal but they have to travel there for six hours from Vancouver, for example. to vote. They've got three MPs... Three million Croats out there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every six months, they have to pull out like they're born every six months. It's intentional sabotage in some people who have made a feudal... from the Croatian state and this must no longer be allowed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It takes three years for a Croat who was born outside to gain citizenship. What do we got here? We abolized people and have more rights of people who have committed aggression against the Croatian state than people who live outside. And that... There was no, we wouldn't have a Croatian state today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Millions of dollars came here for the missile system, then they needed it and now they don't need anyone. How's that? Well, I, I must, we live in two separate parallel worlds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3724	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3725	Mr. Glasnović, I agree that we live in two parallel and separate worlds, in two dimensions and I invite you to come to this dimension of the 21st century, a modern democratic, legal Croatian state. As for corruption and where we stand, on the scales of International Transparency, we are increasingly standing each year in terms of quality effective fight against corruption. And the last government worked on it a lot and it's recognized in the world community. I also mentioned the prize we received first in Europe as part of the Open Authority Partnership initiative, and here is Transparency raising us on a scale of untapped countries. But corruption is still there and we are facing it daily and will likely always exist, simply part of a human being. But it's important that one system, one state, one legal order responds to it, which makes it stop corruption blooming. According to all the surveys, it seems that local administration, self-government in Croatia, is where there is quite a lot of corruption and not only at national level, so work, ministers, parliament, etc. So let's focus on the real problems, we don't use these important social deviations that really destroy the social fabric of this people, this society, this state for each other's reckonings. Let’s not use words such as farts because this does not fall into a serious debate but focus where problems are. Let each of us take our stand, by example, to show that he is fighting corruption and conflict of interest and is asking for it from others. Let's be credible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3726	Thank you. Next for an individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's reading this report a few lines stuck in my eye, so I'll read them briefly. Here we have on page 10, the exact circle of those to whom the rules of this law apply is not clear. The Commission has decided with a proactive approach, respecting the possibility that the interpretations given do not reflect the right will of the legislation. Then again on page 12 we have one.../The speaker doesn't understand. who simply says that we do not know exactly what was meant to be prescribed by this law, that somewhere it is not clear whether someone is an official, whether someone is not an official, whether a report should be submitted, whether it is not necessary to submit a report, whether it is subject to sanctions or not. Furthermore, we have on page 11, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Croatia, must submit to the Committee a list of persons subject to appointment, selection of certificates no later than six months from the date of entry into force of this law. What's written next isn't made. Below is the failure of the Croatian Parliament to provide the Committee with a list of persons, i.e. the behavioural officer appointed as officials, has not yet been made. So that's our second interinstitutional communication problem, child's disease hasn't been corrected yet. He doesn't know what he's doing on the right, they don't match the ministries himself, the Croatian Parliament, the TV, the HRT Parliament, the Office of Presidents. I don't know where the answer should come from. I therefore appeal to the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament to provide all the necessary information to all the institutions that requested it and the contrary, that of those questions sent by the Parliament, and had not yet been given the opportunity to take steps to obtain them as soon as possible. If we need to build a delegation, we'll go there, we'll go to those institutions, and we won't come back until we get an answer. I would say that we have at least five Pharaoh institutions in Croatia – State Judiciary Council, Tax Administration, HRT, DORH, State Office for State Property Management and what we have tomorrow, CNB. Institutions that work irresponsiblely, illegally, do not communicate, do not respond, and for years if not for decades the same people, one and the same click is spinning there, untouchable unquestionable, no one can do anything to them. And then it's questionable to talk about the rule of law, because in the rule of law if someone doesn't work, if they spend public money you're replacing him, he doesn't have anything to come to work with tomorrow. We can read on, page 13. There's another problem listed. It is prescribed, therefore, by law that the court in the administrative dispute will decide within 60 days. So that's what the law says. However, the laws in Croatia, which is a court procedure. How many stories from the Croatian judiciary have I heard of disrespect? So that was October 2013 and June, so it's about the director of HRT and the Council of Electronic Media. In 2014, however, something was due to arrive in response to those 60 days, but it did not. No debate has been scheduled or held, and so far it is not possible to assume whether these practices in the Administrative Courts will also develop in the same direction. So something's supposed to be held in court, it's not. Who's going to answer for it, whether it's going to be a procedure. So what, then? We're wasting money, we're wasting time. It's something that shouldn't happen. We can read on, because about a dozen pages of this report are objections to the work of other institutions that the Commission could not work normally. On page 14, we have another Croatian children's disease of cohesion between the laws, etc. etc. They continue on page 15. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in cohesion is set out in paragraph 3 of the same Article, etc. etc. I therefore appeal to all those who make up the Croatian judiciary to ask themselves until when we will listen to these absurd collegiations, insufficiently defined laws and regulations, there is no communication between individual judicial institutions and generally state institutions. Another thing I would also like to appeal to the government and to the Parliament to introduce a register of property, something similar to what we now have for officials, that all those who are on public money, so for officials and tenants, so that it doesn't happen that when someone signs it back to the office of the official, the mother, the spouse of the property, and then there's nothing, and when it's over, it's back to itself. So, we don't have a complete review of family members and friends, people of trust how much property was transferred, how much it wasn't. This kind of property register would prevent such malfeasances, and more importantly, it would not happen that individual employees of both this or that ministry or agency at the salary of not six, 7,8 000 kuna but which job they do have 10 times more property so they build villas, houses, cottages and say then the salary is small, but the revenues are large. Right? There have been strong objections to our address in such cases. One of these registers definitely stopped it. So who can't justify his property during some time period apparently acquired it unlawfully, illegally. So this is a thief and there are procedures to take that property away. Such a register should also be extended to all Croatian citizens one day, of course it would not be public but secret so that we would finally quickly and efficiently list all that kidnapped property first and then return the right owners. We also heard on the DUUDI report how much state property was drawn to all sides and how many billions of kunas of damage were made to taxpayers. On the other hand, we have to go to all kinds of markets to borrow and so much money goes right under our noses. I wanted to mention one more technical thing when I was filling out my property card was supposed to indicate which party you were a member of. My party Live Wall wasn't there, there were parties founded in '89. HSLS, HDZ, all of those later even MOST and ORAH founded after the 2011 Living Wall, some small parties that exist only in a county or on an island. But there was no Living Wall. And what I had to do, the only thing I could say out of all these parties was I'm not a member of any party, so I'm sorry that I was forced to enter into the report something that wasn't true. Please correct this technical difficulty in the falling political party menu. In principle, it is our opinion that the commission is in line with the resources it has to do a relatively good job and we will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3728	Thank you. We have one replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3729	Thank you very much. My colleague Sincic, I agree completely. When we talk about the register of officials, all those who use money and who manage money from the state and public budget, from local self-government, local self-government companies that are basically like I said several times and local sheriffs. Nor do they correspond to anyone in employment, to the allocation of funds, to the setting-up of tenders, and this has been demonstrated in the audits that we discussed in this session of the previous days. What is this list of officials, I don't refer to you as such, is the law, an example when a billion kuna association gets from the Croatian state budget, money is a nation, let's say it doesn't respect the HNS Sport Act? Are the HNS presidents in the register of Croatian officials? And they oppose all means of obeying the law. So, what kind of message is that? That no one should pay taxes from us, from the citizens? They're local sheriffs. No respect for the Sport Act, sports associations. The selectivity, you mentioned well, DORH, the selectivity of pressing charges. The judiciary's inequality of procedures, extracting from the drawers of old cases for 10 years, and some political processes are in motion. So, throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we don't have a uniform practice of judicial judgment. Are these people all on the list of these registers that affect life and events and that are paid from our budget that people pay? So I would agree with my colleague Sincic here that the register must also contain those people who receive the money and do not respect the law. If they've taken something illegally, they need to be prosecuted and taken away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3730	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3731	Thank you, buddy. Here is the point of entering the assembly if I am not mistaken. It is the bust of Ante Starčević, who has said it in his own time, so I paraphrase whoever feeds on the bread of the people has the people and publishes the accounts. So let's be guided by that sentence. As for the local sheriffs, yes, we have in particular in smaller municipalities and cities of people who treat their fellow citizens I would compare it to the feudal relationship. So, they control in their place of institution, some state institutions, institutions of local self-government, conditions of employment, and there is very widespread corruption. I'm going to talk about this more especially because I filed a criminal report a month ago on that trip. And in this replica, I will look only at the thesis that the success of this government will depend on how successfully it will counter what lobbies and Pharaohs in these institutions that I have listed, DORH, DSV, DUDI, HRT, CNB, Tax Administration. There's probably more of them, but there's a problem, and that's where it's supposed to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3732	Thank you. In an individual debate, the honourable representative Darko Paric is in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I must say that I really enjoyed the opening presentation of the President of the Committee of Mrs Oreshkovic because it was unusual in the first 10 minutes of the report on the work of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest You spoke about informing the Commission. I personally believe that in today's Croatia, information is actually the best tool to introduce democracy and fight corruption. So it was really inspired for me, and I was really happy, and that's why I came forward for this individual discussion of mine. In fact, when we read your report, it is evident that in 2013, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest as regards the tool to do its job had nothing. It didn't even have that banal office business, or any physical network, connection between the computers that worked there. So there were people, there were computers or cells, whatever you want to call them who did what they did. 2,000 officials were there at that time and they were also listing all that property that we're talking about here today and when they were coming and when they were leaving and when something was changing and at every moment. What could literally be said was that at that moment, the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests was one major data recording centre that we and all the officials were sending to the Commission at that point. No chance of checking the same data. And it's even absurd that anyone could have sent the data and pretended to be any official, even it couldn't have been so easily checked out. And when you look at the situation of that report, that's how you realize it's actually a disaster. That we expect someone to control in some way a complete state-run apparatus, and he can't do that because he doesn't have any tools, no means. And we have a situation where very often in Croatia, we're trying to figure out what we're doing. And that's very, very bad. However, what has been fantasticly happening to the entire commission and the president-in-chief of the commission have recognised the absolute need at that moment for informing and the need to introduce tools so that they can finally do the job for which they were both paid and for which they were eventually elected in this House. And it didn't take a long time at all, even as I understand in less than two years it's done a lot, a lot of things. I even dare say one little information miracle in a small, small part of the state. I've done a lot of work in the field of information, so basically I find this very and in some way personal and important, and that's why I took the floor because I really admire people who have recognized something like this and done something like this. Because what you see today as the finished product that the Commission gave us where we fill the cards, actually just one tip of the iceberg that's visible to us officials and citizens. And all that was made to exist was then a heavy mining job that someone had to imagine first and then do. So to introduce an office business, make a register of officials, a register of executive officials, imagine making a new website, conceiving all these processes, that is, all that mining business that preceded us as officials can, by means of some electronic form, make our data input inside. What's still fantastic in that story is the mailbox, actually the idea that the Committee is talking to officials on the Internet, not sending letters, not spending 10 or 11.5 kuna on recommended letters so that I get something or any of you, but that we're doing it all on the website of the Commission, and it's really worth every praise. On the other hand also form for, he line form for seeking opinion from the Commission which also exists there. A picture of people who are absolutely aware of all the business processes they are working with and who have transferred these business processes to the Internet or to this virtual world. And what's most important when the state as the master of all of this looks at all is something that cost before, our communication with letters, communication with recommended shipments, suppliers and everything. At the moment, it all costs zero kunas because it takes place through this famous internet and is still in the state's 100% ownership. And what is definitely commendable is that all of this together cost only about 300 thousand kuna. With 140 going to buy different hardware and everything. So de facto 150, 160 thousand kuna all this knowledge has cost us and that's worth the praise and indeed all the honor. What I think is very, even extremely important in this story is what with the models that you said I'm the information system assigns automatic objects, to this, to what the information system itself does not allow some mistakes and everything removed is the possibility of human error and things are left to some automatic systems to do something. In information, there is a wonderful saying that the error is usually somewhere between keyboards and chairs. What he's trying to say is that basically, we as humans are the most prone to error. And what's definitely a lot of talk about, which is extremely important, we've gotten fantastically at the very transparency of everything, the transparency of the entire system. And any citizen, any official, anyone at any moment can see everything about anyone who needs to be seen and any official is aware of the same thing. And what I am deeply convinced, any progress of public administration, any democratisation and the best way to fight corruption is transparency and brutal information. Or what's today in digitization. But to agree, it's the exact same thing. When you inform or digitize something, when you leave the system to brutally, transparently do the thing, there are no more acquaintances, no good opinions, no bad opinions, the system does the thing right. And most of all, I've reported to you in principle precisely to praise the whole story from this point on, and I think that praise is worth it. However, clean this remaining time a couple of dyspressions if possible. I think there's a little more room for us to say a little upgrade. Somewhere in the report says it's still not possible to hand over the electronics because there's no electronic signature. Last year, an electronic ID card was introduced in Croatia, therefore it is possible to do so today. And I believe you'll probably be implementing something like that by the next report. The second thing that stuck to me in the very report that represented the problem justified to you but perhaps we have a solution where it says that the further assumption of allowing the Committee to access directly and obtain the data available to the state and other competent authorities is the willing consent of those parties that have that information. There is no consensus, namely in the Assembly in 2014, here in the Assembly the passed Law on State Information Infrastructure, which in its article No. The 10th, which defines the use of data from the basic register, says 2 things. The public sector bodies in the implementation of individual procedures shall be obliged to obtain or retrieve data from public registers by official duty without asking for the same information from parties, citizens or business entities in the process. Which means that we as a state need to get data from all sides, not ask citizens. And the next paragraph that is very important to you in this particular procedure is that public sector bodies running the basic registers are obliged to provide authentic data used by the public sector body pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article without asking additional permission. Which means all the data you need in your daily work to check the status of officials and anything else under the State Information Infrastructure Act, which has been in place for a year and a half, almost two years, will little longer be, all the bodies are obliged to give you no more complicated, no special contracts and agreements, perhaps with some protocol that would be easier to resolve. But not just you, but everyone in the state who does any job has a right. And last thing, what I would like to do to improve the next report, namely the same law on state information infrastructure predicts that the system of e-citizens, that is the system that counterpart Klisovic spoke of at the world level as the best European project for 2015. It also provides for one of its articles, Article 7, that all the electronic services that the State provides in any aspect, means any public administration body, I end the President right now, any public administration body should be done through e-Citizen systems. And you were basically definitely at the moment when you were doing it you couldn't combine one and the other thing, but I would pray, appeal as an agent or whatever you want to do to get to the next report a complete system of the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest fits into the system of e-Citizens because there is also a user box in which you can deliver written messages and any other. You've got those caps, too. Here I go. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And the passwords and the users and everything else that's already been made by the state for everyone. Here I am thanking you once again for the end definitely commending the way and approach to the work of the Committee for the conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3734	Thank you. It's the honorary representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3735	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This law was passed in 2011 in the process for the third time, but this concrete law, in the process of joining the Croatian EU, someone said at an incentive, I would say, with the hand of Brussels turning, and this law would call one experiment of the Bruxell bureaucrats over Croatia that went well. There were worse experiments than this. That this was the case in 2012 when the Constitutional Court put some of the provisions of that law out of force, so we got some lighter laws. By the way, my impression is that every government tried to obstruct the implementation of this law only to our happiness the previous government did not follow the hand to which it wanted, so before we joined the EU we were forced to choose the Commission because there was an idea of changing the law. That should also be said in 2008, 2011 the authorities obstructed the implementation of this law in a way that did not elect the Commission. It simply was not, MPs of the then ruling majority did not vote in a secret vote for members of the commission, and opposition deputies boycotted the vote due to these provisions of the law which was subsequently abolished by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, when we talk about political will, it was built up and upgraded over time, and here we have one debate in 2016, which was largely spared by each other's bickering, although each of us on this side and on the other could single out several examples from 2014 and by the basis of individual examples and punishments prove how these other bad guys are. Here we are better. That's not bad for the whole atmosphere. As far as the Commission's practice is concerned, I think it would be good for each official to read from time to time all the decisions of the Committee on Conflict of Interest, of course not for one day but for a few decisions a day to see first what is not allowed or what is allowed not to be found alone in such a situation, then it would be easier to understand some sound decisions of the Commission which were the subject of day-to-day political debates. Although in many cases politicians did not refrain from subsisting a little bit of oil on fire or salting something that may not have been by nature a serious offense, but it was a violation, so that it would be further discredited by the political rival even further emphasized. People often found themselves unworthy of themselves on a pillar of shame and by launching the procedure itself. If the process were to be completed by establishing that there were no violations of the law, or conflicts of interest, then there was little consideration disproportionately that people were not guilty independently of which political parties they were involved. And that is why I am also on the board, and here I am now and in an individual debate once again calling for a review of the practice that even decisions on the non-start or decision to initiate proceedings are made public, rather than the publication when the procedure is completed to protect the people who are not guilty, and those who are guilty will be found guilty, and then there will be a chance of a little more of them being thrown out with public pressure and public criticism. As far as this law is concerned, in today's debate, I have seen from some colleagues the misunderstanding of this law and the role of the Committee. Under this law, politicians are also responsible for what ordinary citizens are not responsible for. For what ordinary citizens are responsible, politicians as citizens are also responsible, but that is the responsibility that determines and brings judgment. Therefore, all that is not covered by this law and the role of the Commission is covered, and what is punishable for all other citizens is also punishable for politicians, but not before the Commission, but in criminal or criminal proceedings before an authorised legal body, so to the State's attorney or other authorised proponents of the indictment proposal, and finally to the court in several cases of judicial proceedings. Therefore, it does not need to be additionally burdened by the Commission on investigative and other actions, because in this content, with certain corrections, it can work well, but those bodies that are in charge of criminal and criminal proceedings to take over something that the Commission has identified as an indication, this is today a popular word these days, so that may be an indication, but beyond that, some other bodies have to take over. As far as the concepts are concerned, the concepts are often misused today. So state officials are one thing, public service employees are second, civil servants are third, and officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest are fourth. Therefore, there are state officials who are not officials in terms of conflict of interest and vice versa, officials in terms of conflict of interest which are not state officials. So when we talk about the word "obligor" in terms of this law, and that's the circle of the person to whom this law applies that they are obliged to file property cards. They're not just government officials and not all government officials. As far as another concept is concerned, it's the concept of a connected person. Today, a colleague of Sacha mentioned the register of friends but there is something else in the law that defines a connected person. One extensive interpretation of the connected person can be all, four billion people in the world and we're all somehow connected except for these isolated Amazon tribes. In practice, however, what are related persons should be prescribed. So is it parents and brothers, are they first relatives, other relatives, friends, schoolmates, etc. I don't want to go into detail right now. In 2014, I had the need for official duty three times to warn the commission that I think some laws from the Department of Administration's section were then misread. One thing is to initiate a procedure for violation of the principle against the Croatian Parliament's MPs because of an express opinion and vote in the Croatian Parliament. I felt that this constitutional provision was stronger than the provision of Article 5 and that a representative in the Croatian Parliament could not even be initiated before the commission for violation of the principle. And it was one national minority advocate who voted in favour of the Report on the rights to exercise the rights of national minorities. The commission has this procedure I think suspended and I think it's good. The second is against one MP who was also president of the political party, because of something he did as president of the political party. I believe that under the Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion that this was the responsibility of the State Audit Office and the State Election Commission, not the Committee for Conflict of Interest. And that something that any representative starts on any other duty that is not a duty to prevent conflicts of interest should not fall under that provision. The third concerned a parishioner from the opposite political option that was punished for disrespecting working time, among other things. After that, we exercised one control of the rights of officials at local and pay level and found that they do not have a working time, do not have an annual vacation, do not have a sick leave but do not have the right to overtime. So the work of the commission has also improved the practice of other state bodies, and I think all of this goes together, however, to one harmonisation of all these concepts and all of these procedures and actions. And it still takes some time to do that and then I like this doctrine of late development. So not all people should be punished immediately if this is something everyone thinks they have the right to do, so it turns out that it was a little too wide an interpretation. And one more thing, therefore, I agree with my colleague Shucker in his interpretation that he is not an article 14th obstacle to being president of the Croatian Basketball Union but should examine whether it is a duty in the sports alliance as a special legal person under the Law on Sports which has some public authority including other associations such as the Red Cross, such as the Firearms Community, as other legal persons who have public authority under the law which was established and the sports alliances under the Law on Sports that they are public duties and that the legislator says whether these public duties are incompatible with each other. So, I'm not in favour of interpreting the 4th derivation of the law, so we need to turn four laws and connect to determine whether the representative or the head of the club can be the president, the president of the association, the president of this or the one instead of the legislator saying it more clearly. If I don't overstep time eight seconds later, I'll start with the microphone, and I'll finish now, see if there's a replica, so I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3736	Thank you. We have a replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3737	Yes, colleague Bauk, I am truly grateful to you who, from the position of Minister and fellow Mariner, have accepted the decision of the Office for Registration in the Register. However, it is strange that the law that regulates the structure of the operation, way and conduct of sports competitions where 99.99% are non-profit associations is called the Law on Commercial Companies. The Company Act does not speak of officials at all. And then he says the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Yes, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in Article 1 states in Article 14 that officials cannot be head of the Administration, etc., and the Supervisory Boards, but at the same time in paragraph 2 says that companies of special state interest may be members of the Supervisory Board, so in the past, we were colleagues of Zgrebec, my colleague Gjurkovic and I were members of the HBOR Supervisory Board, and you were actually members of your colleagues as well as ministers. It is also said in that same article in paragraph 5 that officials may be headed by two non-profit associations or foundations and may not receive compensation but may actually be subject to travel costs in that exercise of that duty. So that's where it all says it out loud. And the one who proposed the Sports Act has made one final definition. What's the law on companies when you don't have any companies in sports? Let's count at this moment which sports collective in Croatia was founded as a commercial society? But what is it? Personally, to me as a man who's been in sports far longer than in politics, I've been in basketball since I was 14. practically since '71. For years, someone creates moral and human accidents. Claiming I'm in conflict of interest, and I'm not in conflict of interest. And in the end, that's what Mrs. Oreshkovic said that there's no need to consider because I'm not in a conflict of interest. But that's what I've been saying all along in this High House, about the relationship between these laws. When you change one law, then you have to change all the laws with what you wanted to change that law, otherwise we are in a situation that independent state institutions simply cannot comply with the law they represent.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3738	Replication response, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3739	Thank you. As for the General Administration Office and their solution, it was not changed because no one complained about it. And according to official duty, the Ministry of Sports could react, not the Ministry of Administration, because if there was any discrepancies that came from the Law on Sports and not from the Law on Associations, we understand that. I am, by the way, one of those who speak a little louder about the rule of law in this country being the Croatian Parliament, not courts and independent bodies, and that they have the task of implementing the law rather than implementing what they think should be written in the law. And if it is vaguely written then it is the problem of the Croatian Parliament and the Government but more Croatian Parliament and then independent bodies have the full right to interpret as they will. I therefore believe that it is necessary to define very clearly and unequivocally because there are now certain doubts whether a person at the head of a sports alliance or some other legal person who is an association who has public authority and the sports alliances have public powers because they carry out competitions under the Law on Sports and are obliged, therefore, in certain civil-legal matters of a type you cannot play for Club A but for Club B to decide whether they are public duties and whether they are incompatible with other public duties within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. But it should then be clearly and unequivocally written that neither you nor Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, who was also the president of a sports alliance and you, as club president, could have been president of either the club or the other or half of the football alliances and other alliances, and that is the doctrine of late development that we mentioned at the outset. So I'm up for that to be clearly defined. Until this is clearly defined by the Croatian Parliament as the most legislative body, it will leave its role to courts who can judge it anyway. Then we'll all think together and what we actually thought when we passed some law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3740	The honourable representative Josip Križanić is coming up in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3741	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. President Oreshkovic with a deputy, co-workers and colleagues. The Commission's report on the conflict of interest will be supported. This Committee is incomparably more quality and functional and much more effective than the previous. I welcome the great step in the work by giving these preventive opinions on the question of officials and I believe that you make decisions completely impartially regardless of whether they are the most just and fair. But this is less important since the official can later prove his right in court. However, much more important is the legal basis, or law by which you work. At the time of EU adaptation, the law seemed to be O.K. standards. and especially from the perspective of the Croatian Parliament and Zagreb. And yes, it was written almost exclusively for politicians professionals. While he was in the field, he caused a huge mess. In good faith, preventing conflicts of interest, pardoning, preventing conflicts of interest and corruption has led to a more complicated functioning of small units of local self-government where, for example, the deputy head of the municipality is officials who are mainly volunteers. The situation in the small environments is often complicated and leads to absurdities because in the small environments almost everyone is in some kind of relationship. Furthermore, it is necessary to distinguish and distinguish very clearly the classic conflict of interest, de facto or violation of the law de jure or violation of the law without conflict of interest. Some in this House have mentioned several times that municipal councilmen should also be officials. What kind of conflict of interest could they be in? If we want to go all the way to that key and the council member of the local board can theoretically be in conflict of interest. Because it won't be going from extreme to extreme. That is why I claim that the very quality work of you as the Committee is holding back a very vague and unreal law that is inconclusive on the ground. He is a democratic gain because the politician and the lowest rank is a public figure and his work and must be transparent and under the height of the public. But that's why the law has to be unequivocal and clear, so that it allows policy-making voluntary and at this lowest level. It is therefore necessary to make an amendment to the law from the classification of officials to the illogical articles. Here's why I'm asking you why the mayor of a small municipality, a volunteer who has a thousand kuna fee, can't be the director of a private company for 5,000 kuna that manufactures a parquet that exports it to the European Union and has absolutely nothing to do with that municipality. By the way, the company can be 30 or 50km away from the municipality itself. If we don't disqualify ourselves with such a rigid law, the best and the best-quality people especially in the local environments, then the second league enters politics. So then we volunteered to include people from the real sector. Why is the representative now? ... By law... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Emphasis cannot be the director and receive the primary salary there and be a volunteer in the Assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, again in a company where it can't be in any direct or indirect conflict of interest. How about an employee? He may, may be an employee, so he may be an employee of a private company but when entering the Assembly he must resign as director and then in... to be a third-ranking firm. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you, who's gonna do this? No one. That's why everyone's here. That's why we're all professionals here. The official shall not be in the management function. Now I ask what it means to manage? Is that management? Is that the director? Is that a procurist? The director of the sector? The manager of the shift or the manager of the task force? They all make decisions, manage and respond within the powers conferred on them by the Director. Someone's surprised, the paper says Mr. Kerum has a big capital, and he's been taking the council's salary for a year. Yeah, that makes for a law like this. Why can a parliamentary representative not be a director or at the same time immediately after acting as a representative? I guarantee half the MPs in the Parliament would be volunteers now. Also, most of them would get a job later and wouldn't spend state money for a year. Isn't it strange that the best people we've got here are all sitting next to one and sitting in Parliament for a year? Is that normal? It is even more nebulose that the chief receives a fee of 6 months, and he must not work for a year. What are they gonna do for the next six months I'm asking you all together? Is this something to discuss on the occasion of a new law? When we talk about the deputy head of a small municipality who is not a signator of anything volunteering for 500 kuna, he can't be a director or a supervisory officer. There's a deputy deputy officer's wife who has 1% shares in a farm pharmacy where the head of the deputy, so the chief can't send a communal per kilo of weed without reporting it to the Commission because there's a single kuna margin in that kilo of weed. The biggest illogicality is the official official transfer of shares to the lawyer. Who oversees and how cohabitation between officials and that lawyer given that they are allowed to communicate once a year about their work and about the shares. Does anyone here really think that this official doesn't manage his shares through a lawyer and that they really only talk about those shares once a year? Furthermore, the official may be a congregation but not a supervisory body. Well, isn't that just one more step in managing the administration? First, the congregation appoints a supervisory officer, then a supervisory director. Therefore, the law should be maximum optimised that as many real-life people as possible are involved in local politics and that there is an even greater need to narrow down the possibility and to monitor the classical conflict of interest because such situations are much more difficult to detect as officials who have violated the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest but without any conflict of interest are more frequently prosecuted. We have to do an audit of officials, not that the secretary-in-chief is from the secretary-general, but he's not the director of large state-owned enterprises as we've heard earlier. To enable all those who do not have executive functions to deal with their business professionally, thereby disbursing the budget to carry out the job as a volunteer with proof that they have no direct or indirect contact between private business and public function. This commission does its job with maximum professional and high quality. But the law you're working under has to be adapted to real life on the ground, so in that case, as well as to you as the Committee, I'll be much easier to make certain decisions. Finally, the Commission should decide in its procedure whether it is a conflict of interest or a breach, the very violation of the Law of Conflict of Interest. That's one thing. Secondly, to have the ability and the right to judge in each case, therefore, you are the Committee for the Assessment of the conflict of interest, intent, and the potential material benefit of determining the sanction or application to the DORH. The quality law requires us to set strict, but very clear rules of the game that we will all have to follow as drunk as we can. In the end for excellent work Mrs. Oreshkovic of your commission and enormous shifts for better good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3742	Thank you. We have three replicas for this debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3743	Dear Mr. Chairman, here I would completely agree with my colleague and that is one thing that I failed to say on behalf of the club, which is that it is not the same level of responsibility and is not the same level of corruption risk for all duties, so for all those who are listed as officials in accordance with this law. It is not the same thing if someone performs the duties of a minister, president of a company's administration, or if he is a parliamentary representative of the opposition or opposition or, let's say, I don't know the head of the municipality or the deputy head of the municipality. I think that should be taken into account when it's being discussed whether someone has entered some conflict of interest or not, and I don't think it's logical to block people from doing it for a year, to improve. I even had a discussion with some people on the subject of why someone would hire a former official, for example, as a member of their society’s administration, even if it was a business and I don’t know how to produce pancakes. That person assured me that there could be no other reason unless you did her a favor. I wonder what kind of service you said your colleague can do us specifically parliamentary representatives or, say, the deputy head of a municipality to someone who, for example, has a firm on the other side of Croatia and deals with some simpler activity. But again, the law says it's not allowed. I believe that the law definitely needs to give you the opportunity that you, as I said in your presentation, must be able to take into account in any particular case all the circumstances, including what kind of duty you've been doing, whether you've done any business, what your influence has been and what this company you'd like to do. I think every person has the right to further work and promotion. I don't think that's a good way to limit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3744	Second Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Excuse me, reply to the replica. Come in a little early.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3745	So I'm glad your colleague agrees with me, I agree with everything you said, I sign everything. All these people don't have any means, and they're not in the same package and in the same basket with these people that we were just discussing with billions. Sure it can't be there... Surely it's not the same if someone formally violated the Law of Conflict of Interest, which means that after 6 months or 8 or 10 he got a job at the firm and paid his salary, and he was supposed to be on the payroll of a state or on the salary of a municipality and he formally broke the law, that doesn't mean that with that he's in the same basket as the one when I'm the head of the municipality and I hired my wife as head of accounting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3746	Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3747	... one subject which is indeed legitimate and which is often passed through the media, given the privileges that MPs have, which is updated at the beginning of each mandate. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] You're asking a legitimate question of volunteering. As far as possible at local level. Many who have left their careers in the Croatian Parliament now or in previous terms, because they were unable to deal with it in terms of professionalization. But a real question can be opened, and it would be a different arrangement, so volunteering. But right away I'll say what, I get myself even if I spoke from my own perspective I could advocate it. However, it is necessary to think seriously about the consequences of such behaviour that does not occur today but throughout history in the last 100 or 200 years of the political and economic thought that Max Weber himself spoke of as saying that the policy of the ultims was warring the regis, which means fear is also a question that he raises, fear of technology. Because politics is not, politics is always a struggle for the common good and for the weakest. Now that you're asking the question of volunteering, that means that we'd all be doing our jobs, we'd come here occasionally or so anyone could come. But in practice, I already know what that would look like. That would mean only those with large corporations could do it. And we can imagine, however, citizens are dissatisfied with how much we're fighting for the interests of the little man, which would mean ultimately. Appreciateing your one thinking that is truly and legitimate and I believe surely the most well-intentioned and we must ultimately think about what this would actually cause.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3748	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3749	Dear fellow Anticevic, I fully understand this dilemma. However, I want to make it very clear why professors can perform a professor's duty, not leave the jury, do their job. Why can doctors operate for two days the same reason that they don't get out of the gjir, out of their business? Someone works 20 hours a day, one of us works eight, and one of us works six. Where does it say that someone who will volunteer in the Assembly will not do their job as well as someone who will only work professionally in the Assembly? I think with this disqualification of the best people, the best-quality people of the first rank are excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3750	Next replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3751	Thank you. Your Honor, by your debate, you actually reminded me of the reason why I said in the opening of my debate that this law was a Brussels experiment, something like that I said, because it was all these illogicalities that you cited that were obvious when the law was passed but the law was passed. Your debate was actually one we can call it a legislative initiative to amend some articles of this law, but there is one problem, and that is that we write a law of zero, then your debate would be seen as a well-intentioned debate within the framework of lawmaking, and I'm afraid that at this point it will only be understood as an attempt to further increase the benefits of officials because these few restrictions that want to bring it down. So there's a very slippery terrain. And the general consensus that we have on this topic when we talk about it this way could lead us to this debate actually being declared by the union of officials because we obviously agree that we should regulate it. So in that sense, I wish you a lot of happiness in this legislative initiative, however, you've given such good light to the problem that if your deputy secretary of the administration is looking for you, you've just run for that place if they don't put these other vetoes on. And since I didn't say that in an individual debate, and I think the commission did a great job and I support their report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3752	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3753	Thank you for your candidacy. I don't intend to run for deputy management. If I was going to run, I'd run for somewhere else. However, this is a pay phone and I have the right to say my opinion. Over many years, acting in public functions and doing private work, I have seen some illogicalities that are not good. This does not mean that one law is a holy letter and that we must not react to it, regardless of whether it is from scratch or whether changes are made and complemented. I don't see any reason why we should be afraid of anything, not the public or anything. Each of us has a ID behind him and behind each of us is a job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3754	It is up to the honourable representative of Gordan Maras in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the commission. I also at the beginning here now have heard this debate between my colleagues Bauk on the one hand and my colleagues from HDZ on the other hand, I agree that the law has a lot of illogicalness but that is already what I would say is a lot of debate where we emphasized it and where simply some things that need to be corrected should be corrected as soon as possible. I could give a lot of examples, here's someone talking today about the fact that after the term of office I can't participate for a year in the management of a company but that's why I can be both representatives and directors of clinics. So those who run 400, 500 million kuna and somehow have a much greater impact than someone who had a company before and now would return to it, so he can't be the director of his company that has a million, two, three or five kuna income. So these are things that are not living and that should be corrected, should not be escaped from them and the law should be developed and repaired in order to be more applicable in practice, so that some people do not think at all whether they want to be a municipal chief and knows that if they fix the situation in the municipality for the term of office they can no longer return to their company for almost a year or do what they did before. On the other hand, I agree that the Commission has made a big step towards transparency because people are following it and it is good, maybe as Mr. Podolnjak said more people are watching when the first time it's being announced how much property, means than when it's leaving the post, it's the same phenomenon as the big girl, people want to look at what someone owns, and when it goes away from the function, it's a lot less noticeable because most people don't change their assets drastically except for those who succeed in a few years of rational lifestyle and behavior, something leaves more savings, but it's also a positive message sent by the representatives that they're not sometimes wasteful, but they look after every kuna. So what I'd like to say is that I think that administration or the amount of data that's being collected, and that's by the most common mistakes, so people are making intentional mistakes like I just made one mistake, so they called me from the Committee because I signed up my wife's monthly salary and then called me a colleague and said no, you don't have to sign up the annual salary, I said well, I didn't see, I'm sorry that, although I was doing it last time at the same level of the year, but I forgot. And I ask but why, so says a colleague to protect privacy or to give a person, your spouse has a certain protection of privacy. It's like people don't know how many months a year, so they can split the annual salary and see what the monthly salary is again. Otherwise, my wife almost left me for it because she says which is why I should have public information if you're an agent. I said, listen, the law is like this, I'm sorry that you're the wife of the MPs and the minister, and that's how it is, we're sorry to announce it. But the fact is, maybe those data should be more accessible to the Committee, but I don't see why they're key to the public. So the public has the right to know how much we make, although it's the same public data in itself, how much we have property, how much savings we have, but some things are personal data. I also don't understand why we're collecting all these possible OIB data, etc., when you're going to have to ask the tax administration again. So all this data the tax administration has because my children have and I use a relief on their children and the OIB is also in the tax administration and all that can be controlled whether they have property, whether I have transferred, I don't know fairies, yachts to my 5-year-old and tax administration. So you should work on me more on efficiency and efficient implementation and less on me would say collecting this data that I'm convinced don't use too much. So if the problem is in checking later with the tax administration and other bodies then apparently the OIB of my children doesn't use it. Because it's a very difficult way to establish something. On the other hand, I have to admit that filling that card required a good part of working menu day, even though I'm a solid asset to my computer, but I spent one, three, four hours to fill it all together and collect the data. But, well, while the law is like that, you have to stick to it. What I'm not satisfied with, and that's what someone said in the debate, it's impossible for the Committee to check for 48 people and get an answer just for 5. I hope that this came next year for all these remaining 43 which in 2014 did not get because of what, therefore the Commission does exist. If there is reasonable doubt, if there is a need to verify then all state institutions should put it as a priority. I can't say there was no time, it wasn't possible to check, but they have to give information to the Commission very quickly so that it can react. Although I have seen in practice that for some officials these checks have been done for many years. So that was, it was started for 5, 6 years to check the tax property of individual officials, which should not be long enough for the tax administration to verify whether the trust or the property of a particular person is incompatible. So what I'm saying is that you need to give full support to the Committee that those situations when they are clearly disproportionate or conflict of interest that these data are delivered as soon as possible so that people can react. And what is particularly important, which I support, is the educational role of the Committee, and that is that anyone who is in suspense would be in conflict of interest to address and ask for an opinion. Although that still calls for a public hearing because it's a committee meeting public, I don't know if it's necessary. So if you're already looking for an opinion that you need to be in a public session because then if you ask something, then they write it like I don't know what happened. But in principle, this educational role of the Committee is very important and people should simply sometimes look for guidance so that they have a simpler approach or safer approach today if they are not sure of their own actions. Although sometimes people who do public duty have even a much more critical attitude than they would have if they didn't. So I know that people may not understand it, but there are a lot of people in the public service and ministers and MPs who are actually much stricter in their actions towards themselves than the Commission would be. And then eventually they get an instruction from the Commission that they can do something that they thought might be of public interest. But that should be used, I agree with that. What it means is that my support is complete to the Committee, that I want all of this to be simplified together, to be much more effective in this part that is not seen in the report. So there's a check on 1800 officials. Indeed, there are people in Croatia who are in a potential conflict of interest as if we are a much, much bigger country. And sometimes I wonder if it's fair to say the head of the municipality that has a million, two kuna budgets and that I said to the head of the sector of a ministry that decides on hundreds of millions or billions of kunas that he as an official simply can't be under quotes in conflict of interest. So these are questions of course for the future. And once again I say when it's changing, and now here's my colleague Arsen tells me that he doesn't budge so fast, but when it's changed to simplify these procedures and put some of the officials inside who have been unwarranted, who have controlled over the years billions and billions of kunas, have great assets, and have never had the obligation to report at all, and yet I point out HBOR as one body that was directly appointed by the state. And I can't believe that, say, some MP in Parliament is an opposition in a potentially greater conflict of interest than someone sitting in the HBOR administration who has approved 30 and a few billion kuna loans. So these illogicalities should be corrected, and here you are in the Committee as the thumb goes up, working on, you've done a lot, but you can do more, you can still push there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3756	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3757	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Maras, as far as your spouse is concerned, it's quite logical, because it's a marriage community which is the institution of rights that roughly says that what's yours is from your wife, and what's from your wife is yours. So that part doesn't make any sense to me to be connected, so it's a classic example of a connected person. But there is a situation, I think life is life. It may occur to you that a mate simply refuses to give you this information for some reason, may be a situation in which someone is in the divorce process, may simply be someone in bad relationships, and a mate wants to make a mistake. Then what about the situation? What happens when you can't get to that data, and that can happen. I think it should definitely be taken into account and as I repeat today it should be possible for you to have an official just tell you simply look at the situation is such and such, I can't get to that data. I also think that as much as I've said this, so it has to stand, it's just like that, it's connected vessels. But some of our mates may suffer damage. So they have to show their profits to the firm, their data they might not want to share at that point with their competition. That's all the things we need to consider. We took this job, we took this duty and we're ready to deal with it. It's a normal thing. But I'm not sure if someone asked our spouses, it wouldn't be right if every single one of us had to get into a situation like a colleague, Maras, that his wife was threatening to leave him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3758	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3759	Here's a colleague of Souch's. You haven't figured out my joke, who would leave me. But the fact is that on the one hand it might be a question of how much Bauk has saved and you nothing, it can be the same. Oh, no? So, yeah, but good doesn't matter. It's what I said that matters. So these data must all be verifiable and delivered to the Committee. What you just said about the company is publicly available to everyone. So it's enough to write the name of the company, so then someone who wants to check goes out nice on FINA or some other service that deals with it and sells it and looks at how much profits it's made. So, you don't have to do five, six things at the same time, and yet I tell all of the Committee and then the Committee should have its execution part and check it all the way. But so that someone doesn't think that someone wants to hide anything, but they have these things that should be done. But every start is hard and so is this one, right? Our commission's only 12 years old, so she's going to primary school. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3760	Second replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3761	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Maras, I will also be sorry if your wife threatens you and I hope that won't be a reason to leave you, because it's a draw or something else. A little joke, though. The key to all this is the official register itself, and you've noticed it well. I'll do it again when my colleague Sincic spoke to you and he counted it well. We have people who run big money, big funds, huge quantities of billions of kunas, and they're not in the register. That's... problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we've got people like I said before who don't respect the law, who run a football alliance, who don't respect the Association Act, or they don't want to respect it. We've got people on HRT for example, so three thousand people, or I don't know the exact number, I'm not going to alludate now. So we have examples they have for the sake of two kunas to our citizen, the public notary of the adjective, so the costs go up to 1500 kuna. And 3,000 people sit inside television. So someone, either hit someone or we made a bad law official that because of 200 kuna eventually took away our citizens for public television. So, who fits these people? Are they in conflict of interest? Who did they give the job to be a public notary or I don't know, to be in what way, what procedure is there? So thousands of these have institutions in Croatia that deal with it, manage millions of funds. We have a problem and you said how much there is that the Commission alone may not have enough personnel. Most likely not, but how many agencies, offices? We've seen this in reports that are unnecessary, about 200 we have total. If teaming up means the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest would certainly be better and more in the register of people, officials and certainly better doing the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3762	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3763	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, as far as associations or alliances are concerned, I'm sure it's a couple of excellence conflicts of interest. So there's no greater conflict of interest than our current football alliance. Here's what I'm saying. It's probably what everybody feels. Because that's where it all comes down to one business that unfortunately goes through the public and then you see how it all ends together. Let the court do its job, I trust the institutions of the state honestly who did this job without any political guidance and anything, so they did their job fairly and now it's in court to prove whether it's true or not. But what's the fact that it's a couple of excellence conflicts of interest. Although I wouldn't say that these associations should be part of this law because this is one area covered by people elected on public duty, although it's kind of a social public duty when you're president of the alliance, but here you get elected by voters and you manage public money that's big. But you're right, and that's where people run the public money. And we also give for the Olympic Committee and for various alliances under the Sport Act. So maybe there's room for a little bit of the same thing to see how things work. Although we have part and defined by law that the presidents of the alliance can't be officials, so we see that it doesn't work. But, well, I didn't mean to say that because of Mr. Shucker, it's not just your case. There were other presidents of the alliances, so there is no need for correction or violation of the Rules of Procedure. So the fact is we're trying to separate it by law, but unfortunately in one part it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3764	Agent Ivan Shuker, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3765	Col. Maras injured Articles 238, 232, because today we are talking about the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. According to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, Article 14(5) clearly states that officials can lead two associations or foundations. And we can fight politically here, but this is from you and I can even say a little politically rude. And you, as an agent, should abide by the law because you took an oath. I repeat, today we are talking about the State Commission Report to prevent conflicts of interest, and the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest Article 14(5) clearly states that officials can lead two associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3766	Honorable representative Maras, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3767	Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, I'll explain now, if you'll excuse me. He's hurt because you said I said something politically rude. I didn't say political, that's my value. I don't think officials have anything to be presidents of the alliance. That's not politically rude. So you kind of insulted me. You said I was rude. No, I have the right to speak my mind here in this House and say what I think. There's nothing a parliamentary representative or minister can do to be president of the basketball alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3768	Representative Shuker, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3769	Articles 232 and 238. Comrade Maras, you are here as I have sworn to uphold the law. The law on preventing conflicts of interest clearly states, and your impressions are your problem. However, I have not noticed that you refused to communicate with the president of an illegal alliance as you say when it suits you and when you needed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3770	It is up to the distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3771	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Shuker, you may continue this debate outside the assembly. So, we know that on this year's scale on the corruption perception index Croatia has left the country of corrupt countries, moved 3 points, with 51 points in place and for the first time is no longer in a group of corrupt countries. One of the major contributions is thought to be to this very Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest. So I'm really glad that the commission is in full operation after some initial steps that were pretty lame, today it's doing well. Of course, in this debate, we heard that there were some problems. I'll remind you of that old saying if there's a problem, if we work and think the same way as when that problem came up we'll never solve it. That is why some changes need to be introduced. In the debate, we heard that on several occasions a problem comes from the law itself, and of course it is something to work on. What I want to especially emphasize and invite all my colleagues to read one material, and this is GONG material, you can download it on the GONG pages. It's called a shift towards managing conflict of interest. So really quality material that can be a good setting for the next step that is ahead of us and that is how to ensure that this commission does even better and better quality and actually take one step further. And we are now constantly talking about preventing conflicts of interest and of course it is important to stress that this is about prevention, that criminalisation of conflicts of interest is not really a goal but a prevention. But I would now go one step further, precisely in accordance with this GONG material and talk more about not only preventing conflicts of interest but managing conflicts of interest. So as one new quality that will ensure that we solve a number of problems that have emerged here today through the debate both on the level of decision-making and on the level of responsibility, sports alliances, associations that exist which should be a priority in the work of the next period. Is that possible? Well, colleagues and colleagues, indeed, are possible, and I expect that, and as chairman of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. Since a new Anti-Corruption Strategy was adopted in Croatia on 27 February 2015, a new Action Plan was adopted here in the Croatian Parliament on 16 July 2015. What does this Anti-Corruption Strategy say? So one of the goals is to effectively prevent conflicts of interest, it has 5 measures. The first measure is to strengthen the administrative and technical capacity of the Commission to decide on conflict of interest, to develop the necessary legal, technical, IT tools and to establish international and bilateral training programmes. Secondly, the extension of the circle of officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is the holder of all public duties with public powers or, in view of the content of their powers, of a naturally linked high corrupt risk. Third, the integration of provisions in conflict of interest in internal acts of legal persons which can be considered in a broader sense part of public administration. Fourthly, by strengthening the asset verification mechanism for public officials. And fifthly, raising awareness in the conflict of interest of all categories and levels of officials covered by the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in order to raise awareness of the issue of ethics and integrity. These five measures, as part of the objective of preventing conflicts of interest, are then under discussion by the Action Plan on preventing the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, where it is particularly related to the day-to-day debate today. The measure 33rd states that the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the extension of the circle of public officials from the scope of the Obligors to the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, in particular when it comes to the duties contained in strong public powers, have the power to dispose of significant financial resources such as those of the case. explicitly states, HBOR, FINA and others. We have, in particular, a measure of 34th draft guidelines and guidelines on integration of the rules of conflict of interest in internal acts and ethical codes of the body which are widely considered part of the public administration and the establishment of a priority list of public authorities that need to develop and integrate mechanisms for the management of conflicts of interest in boarding schools. So everything that is mentioned today in the debate already exists in our documents that bind this Parliament and also the ministries and other bodies to go into the implementation of what is the problem. And again, I am going back here now to move towards the management of conflict of interest on the GONG proposal that says a specialised system of conflict management of interest needs to be introduced. And they say they should actually have 6 levels. And at each of these levels, introduce ethical acts and ethical bodies that would then be responsible for respecting all those elements concerning conflict of interest. So we have specialised systems for executive power, for legislative authority, for local and regional authorities, officials and employees of all ministries, all agencies, institutes, chambers, institutions, public companies, bodies with public authority, police, tax administrations, state audits, the judiciary in particular, judicial authorities of the state's attorney. And the sixth public sector, so health, education, science and sport. Each of them would have to develop its ethical code because they are not the only problem in Croatia parliamentary representatives since we have special measures taken by the 4th evaluation round of GRECO to prevent corruption among parliamentary representatives, judges and state lawyers who are looking for the introduction of ethical codes and everything else that would guarantee the prevention of conflicts of interest. So we have a strategy, we have an Action Plan, we have exactly those measures, carriers, deadlines, when it has to be achieved. And I hope that in one of the next reports and this Committee on the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy that will be formed, I hope very quickly. Namely, I will remind all of you to report to the representatives of the academic community, experts, associations dealing with corruption, press circles on a contest that has come out these days, which is the selection of the 6th members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy so that it can start working in full composition and take over this part of the proactive work that Mrs. Oreshkovic said, someone who should therefore encourage that debate to ensure that the amendments to the law take place in that direction that will ensure the management of the conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3772	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3773	Your Honor. We keep hearing about a state that works and a superficial analysis, a man who only reads the newspaper sees that we live in a dysfunctional state. I'd wonder if there's a conflict of interest in conversion and privatisation. If that's why you didn't when you came to power... published a list of management loans? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In whose office are the archives, the Croatian State Archives, documents from the 1960s to the '90s, and why are they still closed? What about the money? It's the key. We have every chronology. forbids chronology of events, privatisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When the privatisation started. There are some people who have been in state-owned companies who have stolen millions of dollars in bank accounts outside, Liechtenstein, etc., this is not what we call robbed Croatia. Since when was she robbed? Is this a conflict of interest, isn't it a conflict of interest? What about the gray economy 30% or more when we have a functional state? These are EU data, the end of the 15th year. That's double what happens in other normal countries. What about normalizing work where millions of kunas are stolen annually in competitions? How can that work? How can he have the same right to the labour market company with two employees is zero employees, and the company with 1700 and we are waiting years for an ipilon, for roads etc. How is it possible that we have 40,000 companies in the state without any employees, and some have a profit of half a million kuna, and some people are sitting here talking about the rule of law. Smoke curtains, the Croatian people seek the rule of law, seek reforms, cutting and immediately rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3774	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3775	I would ask you to learn from the president of the club what a replica is and that when you go to the replica before then first read the material that is the topic of the agenda. So you're actually sure I didn't even open the page of this report. So keep the integrity of this House with quality debates, not with what you are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3776	The following came to the debate, the esteemed representative, Ladislav Ilcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I think I'll be brief so I don't repeat myself. Two things, two parts of the debate. The first part of the remarks to your work itself. So, first one commendation that I am very pleased with your relationship with us users, would say user friendly, so nicely match your employees to our memos, want to listen, want to be put into our skin etc. That's commendation. On the other hand, several remarks. First I think we should fix the software, I mean now I'm talking about my experience working with you, not since 2014. But since you said you fixed the situation now given 2014 then I certainly think it was worse then. Oh, no? So I'm glad that there is this software and that we can communicate via e-mail, or via an application on the web. So, specifically when you write there when I wrote you a memo, then at five, six times I couldn't send it, it couldn't be sent, it couldn't be sent. Then I find out if the problem is the clutch on the letter "s" or the clutch on the letter "s" or "s" or so. Until I discovered one of those, I forgot more what, that I could actually send you a memo through that app. So it's an application that's just not good enough. The other thing in the procedure is also one paradox, so we can't get paid before we hand over, so our own way of saying the property card, and the property card asks us how much money we have. And now you're actually going into a closed circle where you don't really know how much pay you have, and you can calculate that salary just as much as we do according to publicly available data. So I went to look under the law as much as my coefficient, this, that, etc. so I could calculate that salary. So you're actually asking me something that I don't know as much as you do, and you can actually do better than I do. The other thing I have to say in that communication is that I just happened to find out that I'm supposed to fill out that property card. I know it's a legal obligation, but I came as a new representative to the Parliament. I must admit that I am also disappointed with the professional services of the Parliament, that I have been wandering for that month. I expected that when I came to the Parliament that someone would invite me to talk, say good afternoon, good afternoon, we need it, that and so on. They're your rights, they're your duties. That didn't happen. I'm actually accidentally in a cough that I also accidentally found out at all that I had found out that I had found your letter that I had to do it and I found it 26 days after the start of my duties. So it was meant that I knew something that I didn't know. So all this communication where you rely on the Parliament's professional service isn't good enough. Then, in the application itself, there is no doubt written what is required specifically of that salary, because it wonders how much of your salary you receive. I repeat, in that regard, I was using the presentation myself at that point, and I hadn't received my salary yet, and then we commented between the MPs whether we should write an old salary or a new salary. Oh, no? I don't know how much the new salary is, the old salary is irrelevant because this conflict of interest is used by you to determine my assets at the beginning of the mandate, to see how much I made during my term and at the end of my term to put it into some normal relationship, to see that I wasn't corrupt. So the salary height before that is actually irrelevant. So it wasn't clearly written, and I know there were mistakes, and that's what these remarks are about. In this second part of the debate, I will look back on the fight to prevent conflicts of interest and protection of privacy, primarily thinking about legislation now. So, as we see the idea of the entire Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, among other things, creates an unculture, means at all culture in the public fight against conflicts of interest. And that's good, and we should make progress on that anyway. However, when we talk about the public, it means general culture and thus the public, then I must say that the strongest tool in this public is the media. So, the media, in some ways, represents the public, and we need to know that media are not the first interests of protecting or preventing conflicts of interest, but rather the first interests of ratings, i.e. reading. And that's where we come into a conflict where media like ratings, i.e. readability, first interest, and they like to muddle politicians, they're doing great, and they live on it. It's a great topic for them, they go to those emotions that we're like politicians already as soon as you're a politician, you're already in the eyes of many citizens a sinner. So, at that point, you're already in a really bad place. And when it starts to talk about taking politicians, then you've become as big as you've ever had. So I think we have because the media is doing this with this interest to muddle politicians, and not to fight conflicts of interest in the first place, in this way we have a negative selection in politics. And that's bad. We should have the best people in politics in our people, and often people think no matter what I need, why I go into politics there, everyone will attack me guilty or debtors just because I'm going to be a politician, and when they hear that I have some kind of salary bigger, then they'll attack me, etc. So this all leads to one of my conclusions that I am very much in favour of all possible data being delivered to you and that if you need and increase the amount of data that will be delivered to you and on the other hand to reduce the number of data that goes to the public. So, of course, all the institutions that want to get to that data you have to give them that information. But those data that serve the media exclusively to enjoy how much you had before pay, so how much of this, how much of it under the cover of fighting to prevent conflicts of interest and, in fact, with their original goal of mudring politicians and thus sharpening their ratings should make a more reasonable balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3778	A distinguished representative, Marko Sladolev, appeared for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3779	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I had a similar salary situation, too, and I didn't know what my salary was, but I still had some additional problems because I swore a month late, so I'd ask Mrs. Oreshkovic if this was true for us officials who we swore later because we were practically only 5.6 days old to fill the card, and it was true for us. I went to the Parliament, to the accounting board of the Parliament, and they kind of calculated my salary and I filled it out, and now I'm going to have to make some changes because it's probably not another amount accurate, so just the question is that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3780	Although no replica was sent to me, I am therefore convinced of how much I have checked that since the entry into office within 30 days regardless of when it took place. You'll correct me if you don't, but here I'm sure it is. So, from the moment you took your oath in 30 days, you should surrender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3781	Did you answer now instead of a colleague of Oreshkovic's or? The next call came the distinguished representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3782	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Ilcic, let me just say as well as I do, that the ignorance of law does not excuse. Therefore, all our obligations under the law knew them whether we or not knew we were responsible for them. But I agree with you that the professional services of the Parliament as well as any other institution where officials come to work should have one catalogue of rights and obligations they would give them when they come to a new workplace so that they get to know their rights and obligations as soon as possible. Well, perhaps from this point on, from this point on, I'm calling for the Parliament's professional services to prepare something for all of us new MPs who come to work at the Parliament. The second thing, the publication of public data is needed by our property, of course, but it does not serve as agents or officials of the state to make fun of their neighbours, friends, enemies, party friends, etc. It's for a whole other purpose. And in that context, I also believe that all data should be given to the commission, but it is not necessary for each of the smallest data to go public, to the media. Because sometimes it leads you to a rather unequal situation when you're trying to buy something on the market and satisfy some interests. If you want to buy an apartment and your entire property is on the Internet a simple person from whom you want to buy an apartment is in a much better negotiating position than you do. And there are thousands of such other situations where you feel in some way that you are in a subordinate position. But due to greater interest, which is to prevent conflicts of interest and abuse of official position, of course, we all agree that such data is being made public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3783	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3784	I agree with you, and I think you're actually in your speech, in fact, in some way overreaching and agreeing with me. I'd just add that means mine, which you actually later said, the objection to saying so to the commission itself was precisely in that user friendly approach. It means that no matter what you say or what you say, and that I agree that because I don't know what my right or duty means, it doesn't mean that I don't have a duty. Here's just an appeal means that when someone new comes to the Parliament to find an effective way means to direct us to our duties in due time not to come to teat, as I personally came. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3785	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3786	See fellow Ilčić when he started the project of a personal identification number or of an OIB then he actually had a working name tax number and so the idea of us going into this project was to build a central register in the Tax Administration. Now, honestly, after five or six years, I'm asking myself why isn't that register in the IRS? So, the intention when we go into this project is to get a blood count of all Croatian citizens and then Mrs. Oreshkovic or anyone else who would do this job has exactly the prescribed protocol with the Tax Administration with the central register so that certain data can be obtained. However, when many of the moral false sizes in this country realized what the OIB would bring, the footing began and finally my flight from the office of the finance minister. But the question arises why because of the even use and fair use of social benefits, because of the prevention of some ridicule and persecution of people who have and how whoever has it should have done so in that central register was supposed to be all connected. However, former Orsat Milenic said, and we knew then that it would be the biggest problem with the grantovnica, today some 20 per cent of the property was seduced by the OIB. And that's the key problem. So we can talk about whatever we want here, but the elemental question is why that project that started to end in a garter in 2, 3 years and to establish that central register in the tax administration should not work at all. The commission would only ask and receive complete information about your shares and even this issue today, today one of the colleagues in the debate mentioned related societies. You, when you type in your OIB, in the company of the company of all companies, you get a link that is tied to that OIB and all the companies that are related to the OIBs, which are linked to that OIB. Therefore, it would come very quickly and see those who are in conflict of interest and in what conflict of interest they are in. But I'm saying someone unfortunately stopped that project halfway and I don't know why, but I really hope we finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3787	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3788	I'm just going to complete my hope that the principle that we in HRAST have always advocated to unite all state institutions means that we can't happen not to know about the police and that they're sending me out of the womb of the born, that it's all simple to unite and that we don't need to ask any document to move from the principle that the state can't ask any of the citizens to ask for any document that can be obtained from any other state institution. So I hope that the OIB that you've been talking about, and it's all going to come to life during this term, this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3789	Replica esteemed representative Ivan Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Ilcic, you said in your debate that we needed the best people in politics. I couldn't agree more with you. The Croatian Parliament should be the most important thing, the best that the Croatian people have. So now you're in power, you have a chance to go that way. Surely we would not get the best people in politics in a way that we leave too much to party bosses and too little to citizens through a preferential vote. So we are now in a situation where someone who would never cross the threshold alone, somehow I would not have been elected, not only in the Parliament but also in the councils, the party chief puts it somewhere on the top of the list or at the top of the list, and on that basis it passes and I don't know it's in the Assembly for several terms. Here I think it's something that's a defect in our electoral system and that we need to go more in that direction for citizens to decide who they want and less party bosses. It's just a suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3791	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3792	I agree that the Electoral Law has something to do with the conflict of interest but I think it's borderline related to this subject, but I think the introduction of a preferential vote has helped in what you said, so it means that citizens can decide more personally who they want and not just the party. Although the electoral system is a very complex thing because it depends primarily on the campaign, again on the media, depending on the money etc.. So it's not just that simple to determine that then people will decide, not party bosses. And I'm in a conflict of interest because I'm a party boss, so I won't talk about it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3793	Replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3794	My colleague, what you were saying in your conversation with the new MPs, I've often had the opportunity to hear and you're absolutely right. And it's not the commission's job to provide new representatives here who don't have big clubs, to introduce them to it. That's what all parliaments do. And what happens, therefore, in the Croatian Parliament, in general with politics, political degradation, criticism unfounded or relativeized truths and lies and good and bad, what you also talked about and measuring, they now have big salaries, then after property, where, therefore, although everything is transparent tells them that obviously some in society, and we already know who it is, they are identified, i.e. large capital. I don't know who's behind this big capital, and it's easy to disabling political parties and political party struggles and a simple way to some technocrat. But what's the answer for us? That's why this law and the policy's favorite for the purity of politics and for politicians, and that's why it needs to be understood and persistent. And there's often debate here, the ones who are, look who's gone. I've been here 16 years, except for what I've been in government for a while, I've never said who's in government, who's there and who's not there. It's often our debate. We think someone will like us, no, the attack on any politician's attack is on all of us. Our political struggle is from different attitudes that we represent, who we present, what interests we represent. Of course it's more or less clear. It's our real political struggle. But exhausting, there's a canton up there called '45. They haven't left Yugoslavia yet, nor since '45, until '60 they came today. Maybe they'll be there by '95 during the term of office. A year. So we talk about status, we can just talk about bad status, and the good part is that's our fault. But I believe, here's your one debate is a major contribution to the affirmation of politics and the protection of politicians. But it also exposes all those negativity. That's why we need it too, that's what you've been talking about and Mrs. President of the Committee, Mrs. Oreshkovic is talking about and the Croatian Parliament has to adopt this ethical code We've been trying to get the code of ethics for years and we're not doing it. [[Intruder: Time.]] I believe this kind of debate and this is one consensus on how it will contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3795	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ladislav Ilčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3796	I'll answer two things. First, thank you for this observation and we could really see how to build up our staff service in the Assembly for the future so that it truly does do the task. So when someone new comes to the Parliament I don't accuse people who are now in the personnel service, obviously they don't have that direction to act like that but in any case I think it should be in the future. I mean, at the end of the line, when I auditioned in the orchestra, the editor came to me, said good afternoon, good afternoon. And then we started, your rights are that and that, you need to do this, this and he brought me into it all together. It would be normal for someone to come to the Parliament to just as easily not give up the moon as I did for two months in the halls of Parliament looking for where the Mandate-immunity is, where I don't know it etc. You're our cause now. I'm sorry we're so far away from you, but this was a reason for this here. The other thing about what you've opened up is the image of politicians I absolutely agree with, but I think that's where we're the most responsible. I will personally strive to perform in an unsatisfactory manner, so what I see in this House whenever someone speaks, then it should act in a daunting manner. So, I'm making an argument, but by the way, I'm going to say something to attack this one over there, and so on. And then there's this negative atmosphere and perception of the public, but justifiable that we're fighting, that we're not going towards the content, that we're not discussing it in an argument, but that we're here to argue. And that's what as long as I've watched the Parliament before I've been deeply disturbed and I will personally, no matter how I'm being treated, I'll try not to do so, so if more MPs do so then I guess that political culture will change, and in the next election, I hope it won't get in my head. Because now it seems to me that some people, our viewers, like when he told him. Now I guess because someone's offended someone, then I guess he's a hotshot if I can say it like that. But I still think there are enough cultural people and voters and viewers who will appreciate a constructive debate in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3797	The following came to the debate, the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The debate on this report has raised many questions, but it has also offered many good, good answers and useful answers that should only be applied. If the conclusion in one sentence were to attempt consciousness then I would say that we have inverted circumstances and that it is necessary to change the paradigm created by the Committee on the Decision of Conflict of Interest. The composition of the commission with its expertise and responsibility is above average quality, and this professional work has also resulted in a professional report. I would point out that a responsible person can have a very difficult time in conflict of interest, that he cannot be in conflict of interest because he has a law, he can read and obey the law. But if he has a commission in doubt or in ignorance, he can consult him before taking action or bringing himself into the circumstances of conflict of interest. When it comes to officials, we often hear three more words – property, public interest and conflict of interest. But what is imposed and what is necessary is to change the law whenever we mention these three words always imposes a change of law and to define more clearly and broaderly who is all in charge and who is subject to this law. He's vague and needs to be expanded. Who can be in conflict of interest must be covered by the law. Who can increase property by abuse of public office, so he must be an official. Who can be a public function for whose public office there is a public interest that must be a official. What can a representative do? She can have coffee with the parties looking for her and pay for that coffee or tea. He can make a phone call to his will and pay the bill at the end of the month. He can park wherever he wants and pay for the parking lot. You can take a cab to work and pay for a cab. And the representative is an official, and let him be. But the President of the Board of Zagreb Holding and members of the Board of the Zagreb Holding, directors of cleanliness of various, water, bus stations, directors of all the companies of the state-owned companies, directors of the CERP who manages with the largest assets, deans of the university, university rectors, directors of HRT, directors of FINA, hospital directors, school heads, heads of pension funds, much greater public interest and much more can come into conflict of interest and can significantly increase their assets by using public office and not at all covered by this law. And imagine how many palettes there are and how many billions of kunas. The principals of the student centres are not officials, they have hundreds of millions of kunas and how they use public procurement, how much their assets were when they became directors, how much they didn't, nobody even knows. What's their salary, nobody knows. The directors of mandatory pension funds have 70 billion kunas of pension money. No one knows what their salaries, their bonuses, their assets were when they became directors or how much they were no longer fund managers. Is it normal that they're not officials? They are an example of a pair of excellence officials who can abuse a function that may be in conflict of interest, who make decisions directly that are in conflict of interest. If it is a public interest, is the salary of a parliamentary representative a public interest? It is. And is the governor's salary and vice governor's public interest? Of course it is. But when the governor and vice governors make up for themselves for the inventive work of outside members of the council, who only received members of the council, the external ones increase that fee by the amount and wages, and at the level of 15 or 12000 kuna, then it is not known whether they are in conflict of interest and how much pay they are, so please determine whether they are in conflict of interest because of this decision they have made on their own. Is it in conflict of interest when someone chooses to have a loan that will subsidize the interest of the company in which he is the manager? So that's why you had a problem if we remember with one agency that didn't want to announce that HBOR gave the head of the other company a loan with interest subsidies. Imagine what would happen if the representative received a loan from the Croatian Parliament at 2% interest and the Croatian Parliament paid the difference of over 2% or 3% from the budget. And all employees in the Croatian National Bank are subsidized by interest above 3%. It doesn't matter under any circumstances, it can conclude 12% of the interest, no negotiations. And unlike 3 to 12% will pay the CNB. And they're not in conflict of interest. There is a provision in the law that is the greatest farce I could read when it comes to this law, which is so-called. transfer of management rights. No matter what happens when someone transfers management rights? Nothing, it's just a hoax, a lie, the deception of all in Croatia, and first of all us. What's going on with this company? He doesn't have any influence on her anymore? Oh, come on! It's all the same. And to God, he's not in conflict of interest because he transferred management rights. Let him transfer property rights so he can get rid of it then he won't be in conflict of interest. We need to change that immediately from the law. I've heard here several times volunteering at the Croatian Parliament. There may be links, so all those who are saying that representatives should be reduced rights should reduce the salaries of those who volunteer in the Croatian Parliament first make a request for a contractual termination of the employment relationship in a state institution where they have a higher salary than as representatives in the Croatian Parliament and then continue to volunteer and fight for the reduction of salaries and rights of representatives of the Croatian Parliament. But he doesn't volunteer as hospital director or dean or someone else has 18 or 20 thousand kuna and he can't get paid in the Croatian Parliament, he can, but he'd be smaller, so he won't, and then they fight for a reduction in wages. Gentlemen leave there in the state service, come here and cut as much as you like, we'll fight with you. But at the same time, we don't fight for severances in companies that aren't government officials, even those who are government officials. They have rich severances, they have greater rights and no one mentions them. And you see the conflict of interest. A little while ago, someone mentioned here that MPs were banned within a year from becoming a member of the board of directors in a company. That's true, but no sanctions. So here's the case of Podravka, the president of the administration left right after the parliamentary representative's term and was in conflict of interest. Please, and find out. And what's most important about the application of this law is that property cannot be determined. It may be incorrect, it may be incomplete, but the property can't be verified at all. In particular, many forms of property are not reported at all, even there are no headings for such a kind of property, which may be significantly larger than that which is required to be reported. It's so much forced that we need to change the law and please start the initiative, look at everything we've been saying and make a proposal to amend the law so that we can function on each other's preferred social paradigm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3799	Replica, distinguished representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3800	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Maric, I agree with most of it if not all of your exposure and I am pleased to see that here on both sides of the political spectrum we are able to find a consensus on those topics that are important to our country. But there is one statement that I completely disagree with, which is when you said that a conscious and responsible public official cannot be found in a conflict of interest. At first level, I agree with you. And of course if you go to sell management rights by abuse of your function, if you go to withdraw money from public companies or set up tenders to your company and companies of your friends you cannot be aware and responsible. But it does happen and that's as far as I know, and the president of the commission will correct me if I'm wrong, that the greatest number of violations of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest will say less important, if we can talk about greater and less important. And very often you've been brought into this situation beyond your will. For example, when the government's professional services do not warn the government before it appoints you to more than 2 boards of directors of different institutions or agencies. You have no idea you're in more than two, you just get a solution and now you're a member of the board of directors of this agency or this institution. Until the moment you ask to be resolved you are de facto and deura in violation of the law. You're breaking the law beyond your will and beyond your knowledge. But we said ignorance of the law doesn't excuse. So, I think you can still be conscious and responsible, even though you are unfortunately in a minor violation of the law. The second thing about volunteering and wages, and I agree with you there, and I believe that MPs in the Assembly must cover all segments of society and come from all social groups. That this job here isn't just for rich people who don't have existential problems and don't have to pay their bills every month. So if we want to work here for 0 kuna, that means we have income elsewhere. One who does not, who lives from his work, could not work in the Parliament. This is not a message we want to send to the Croatian public. Politics and responsible conscientious work of the state official is not only for the rich, but for all layers of Croatian society that must be represented here And in that sense, I think if we want professional people in politics that we have to pay for them. [[Intruder: Time.]] And I think that's enough of that '90s shit that's worth two kunas. All that wisdom must be paid, and so must she in this high house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3801	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3802	Thank you, dear colleague Klisovic. I will refer back to your replica. The representative is, the seat of MPs is for elected regardless of qualifications, at age, gender. It's a place for the chosen ones. And only which Croatian people choose is the seat of MPs. When I say that a hard-working person can find himself in a conflict of interest, I wanted to point out the work of the Committee. Of course, what you mentioned even though the responsible person already knows and reads the law so he knows that more than 2 committees can't be appointed so he will take care of it... But if, by chance, that neglect has a commission, contact the commission and the commission informs him if you want to resign in one place, you can take it elsewhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that sense, it is very difficult to be in conflict of interest because of the way the Commission works. And I spoke to the Committee several times, and I asked the other day if I was in a conflict of interest if I was appointed to the Supervisory Board, to the Trust Fund for Compensated Assets, or where I function as a member of the Board as I am in the DAB function. So you get information, you get instructions on how to behave. The salaries of parliamentary deputies are lower and rights are less than 90% of the head of the local self-government companies, of 90%. And any reduction, of course, that there is illogicality and illogicalness to be removed, should be removed. But I'm happier for that parliamentary representative who doesn't have a seat in a private company in the management of society after the term of office is completed than he's waiting for the first day, a job in a private company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3803	Replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3804	Yes, colleague, this report in some way and this debate we're having is essentially a debate about ourselves. When you point to a whole series of performances, people who do certain jobs say why they're not officials. I don't think they should be officials, but their property should be public and transparent. We decide here, we make general acts. But what about the people in the state apparatus, the honor of all honest, honest people who are motors and who spin all this time and push the system forward so it doesn't fail? However, we are aware that there are people, which, and these people, are tasked with bringing in individual acts, which directly decide on certain rights and obligations. Nobody cares about them. Ever since I was Minister of Justice, there's been a lot of talk about judges, this, that. They say, "Let it go." They come in old caramps to work. That was a long time ago, now 14 years ago. Go to a certain department, which has nothing to do with judges, so you'll see which one's the fleet. Because that tells you everything. And while we're here talking about what's public and transparent when someone who's ever tried to suggest something or talk him into it. You represent one particular idea but then you have, you know, those that don't break through and what happens at local level. And it's good and it seems to me that my colleague Podolnjak well noticed that there was a greater danger of being, and it was all of us from our place who were bigger or smaller witnesses and who weren't councilmen that were going on, buying councilmen. Whoever bought it in that sense, they move on to one side or the other. And why do the media call us voting machines all the time? We don't have our own individuals, where we are, we belong to the club SDP, HDZ, MOST or newly formed clubs. So they're slyly calling us a voting machine. And now here we are, a great danger. All this is good to do because it is in the interest of really politicians and policy affirmations. But it's done systematically to break up politics and go politics and make decisions to some other people's hands. But then it's least likely to be in the general interest. And it's a general and common danger that you must recognize. And some who say that, even among us, I'm deeply convinced that they don't know which way it can go. So here's just one sentence, please. We need a new Law on Public Administration Reform, no matter when they arrive, to remain transparent and property cards in the sun. This doesn't have to be done by the Committee because it wouldn't have enough time and work but it does, as it does in all other countries. And then people and citizens will appreciate us more. Because what does it have to do with what we're saying here, and honestly, most people are also being honest when you have a different picture?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3805	We have to let a little democracy go, no problem. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3806	Comrade Ingrid, I support everything you've said, but I'm going to look back on the part where you said that the other outsiders are calling us the voting machine. Well, if only they were calling and we weren't, but many here think we should be voting machines, and we are by many. So that is why we are where we are because it is precisely because the Parliament does not agree to be a Croatian Parliament. And MPs do not be representatives in the Croatian Parliament. A lot of people agree to that. When it comes to the fact that we should not be officials, so that we will only raise awareness of the parliamentary representatives and actually the debate only comes down to parliamentary representatives. Just. And who's the official? The very definition of officials says others must be included and declared officials. The very definition is much wider than the contingent of officials being observed. And I do not agree that only the parliamentary representative is an official, and that the director of Croatian Radio Television or the president of the HBOR Board or the Dean of the Faculty of Economics or Law is not an official, because he manages public money and can be very much in conflict of interest long before the parliamentary representative. And more often in conflict of interest, it's just that no one's telling him. And their property is increasing more than the MPs of the council except that no one is controlling it or watching it. So are the directors of all these others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3807	Replica, distinguished representative Margareta Majeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, counterpart Maric and previous debates have touched the obligation to hand over property cards, and I am sure none of the parliamentary representatives, ministers, members of the government have a problem with handing over the property card. And about government officials. I agree that not everyone has to be state officials, but there are duties and functions that they would have and must have an obligation to hand over property cards. And many of them have been named by counterpart Maric. So, among other things, is it completely illogical that the director of Croatian television that we don't even know how much pay he has is not due, and in a hundred percent part of it is funded right from public money, the state budget is not obliged to hand over the property card, and to be an even bigger paradox we can't even get an insight into what the salaries are, so the editor on HRT. And they also relate what Mr. Maric said about units of local self-government, so here is the Zagreb Holding. Namely, six, seven years ago, when a representative of the SDP in the Zagreb Holding Directorate came to the head of the Zagreb holding company, 15 people were employed. Within six months, that number has increased to 200. So, in the Zagreb Holding Directorate, 25% are higher salaries than in the branches of Zagreb Holding, and all these people are left, and all these top people branches that have changed over time for a variety of reasons have remained on the same salary as the main people of these branches, and so today we have 12,000 employees, and more than half of these people have certain duties, and most of them believe me especially these 200 that have come through the political way in the Directorate has paid if there is no higher at least at the level of the parliamentary representative, and no one knows about it, without talking about that their property cards have never been seen and it has to be changed. Therefore, the list of persons who are obliged to hand over the property card must be changed without being government officials, because it does not have to be a state official. But since it's funded from public money, it has to show what it has, what it had when it came and what it has when it leaves the mandate it's appointed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3809	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3810	I agree with you, Mrs. Mađerić, that a systematic analysis needs to be done and to see who should be the official, and who else is not the official should submit the property card before the entry into force. That's what needs to be done, and that's how you approach it. But if it makes sense for the president of the HBOR administration to come, it will be three months and receive a seven-time severance payment over these 12 salaries six plus six in the Croatian Parliament. It doesn't make sense, as it doesn't make sense, that because of one day in the Croatian Parliament, 12 salaries are also paid, it doesn't make sense that one day. But the one who left everything, risked and did his job and did his job and became a representative in the Croatian Parliament, and after that, because of the way he worked, perhaps threaten him not to find a job anywhere while he was alive, there are those. Would you like names and last names? And they also take it, they should not gain anything, and those who look forward to it because they did services to their future owners and employers will not be touched by anything. Great, that's what we're gonna do. The official of state is the director of DUUDI, but interestingly DUUDI is establishing a CERRP company and a CERRP director who has more assets than DUDI is not an official and has no, he does not display his property card at all. And cases like that at an expanse. Perhaps in any case, and I allow it, but there is much that can be done from this, and it can be corrected, corrected by a new bill that is necessary and cannot be expected for long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3811	Replica esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3812	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, just for a little while. I've been here for two months in this House, and before that, I thought things were changing in Croatia. However, I see that the good part of this is turning into mourning. I'd like to congratulate Dr. Maric on this pile of useful information he's literally out of his sleeve. And I think what he's saying is that it's frustrating and it's certainly going to piss off a number of Croatian citizens who are watching this on TV, and I want to ask him a question to what extent does it even make sense to try to find these things, to speak, to paint, and here is the head of the Committee's office to prevent conflicts of interest. What will be after this discussion? We've heard wonderful ideas and concrete suggestions here. Because if this is how this ends and this doesn't define the concept of a state official, there's really been a lot of words here, what are we going to expect to do next year, and we're going to have a nice conversation again and it's going to be targeted first and foremost by parliamentary deputies? I think that populism needs everyone in this House to give up when it's a word, and I thought until I came here to have a lot of parliamentary representatives, to have a lot of privileges, but when they told me that it was 10, 15 years ago. As time went by, it was fucking. I'm not saying someone doesn't get me wrong in public, the situation in Croatia is really hard, the average salary is about 5700 kuna, but this is all that's listed, from the head of the station, the public enterprises, to the third level let's define it. Or what was said a few hours ago, which means Mrs. Director's information that you're looking for, so we keep coming back, sometimes we miss the homes, and then two, three times we fill out, and you can't get data on the custody account. Well, it's just a hoax in this country, you understand? Who's gonna ask these people what they got? And we're looking at a blood count, and the media is filling up. And let's, but let's afford it to others. They can't be protected and unprotected, or we're all equal before the Constitution, the law or we're not. If this is where we will communicate to the public to change Croatia and what is now then here is Mr. Marić, I have already lost my time, please answer this because this is frustrating.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3813	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3814	Thank you. Professor, I think you've changed your mind a little about the attitudes you've probably had when you've come here now and when you see that it's not exactly what it looks like on the outside. And that it's easy for someone to judge and judge and seek some kind of relationship and change. It is easy to demand a reduction in the salaries of MPs, which is a bad and harmful decision, economically harmful. But that there is a way and that there is a need to reduce rights and wages for those who don't, and it has to be done. But linearly equating everything, linearity in the profession means ignorance, lack of analysis, laziness means nothing but linearly without any analysis. It actually shows laziness, irresponsibility first. Nothing linear has ever turned out to be right or good. That is why I do not accept a linear attitude towards Croatian MPs either towards directors or ministers or anyone. But when the Minister of Finance, or then the chairman of the Supervisory Board, writes to the president of the administration of a state-owned bank that he has to adjust his salary and he is the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Payment according to the government's decision and is aware of those 17 thousand kunas, this one is deafened and paid still 30 thousand kuna. And nothing! He's not in conflict of interest, he's in nothing. That's why I'm saying we have to include those. He doesn't have any responsibility. When we talk about why he came into conflict, the interest on the loans didn't sign one because she didn't want to see a small interest on the loan being paid. But what is it? The officials should also register interest on deposits to see who gets what interest on their deposits. Because someone gets 0.5% of someone 4%. And why does someone get 4% and someone gets 0.5% or 1%? So there should be interest on deposits visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3815	The replica was reported by distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3816	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's from the whole debate, and especially you, colleague Maric, you've listed a number of institutions that are essentially state-owned. As you yourself have said, credits are granted where they co-finance themselves means interest, contracts are signed when a director of HEP or I don't know HRT gets fired or I don't know how in millions. In the CNB, you mentioned that I was the director of the decision, i.e. The governor determines the amount of pay. In fact, if we have any influence, the key question arises whether this commission and whether we have the strength, this Assembly, is what Professor Lovrinović was talking about earlier, whether we have the strength as a legislative body and you as a commission to treat not only parliamentary representatives in the same way but also to gentlemen who may be watching television in the shadow of the shade or not as interesting to them, and who have triple the salary of parliamentary representatives and we don't have it. Many of them have forgotten... also sign up for hotels in Slovenia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I heard that, I couldn't believe someone had a hotel and forgot to sign it up in the property card. And these people now in the thick shade of us, of course the public has a right, we are elected folk representatives, but the basic question that fellow Maric highlighted earlier, Lovrinović and all here respected from left and right, but this should have been resolved before, and you from left and you from right not to boast these Pharaohs in those institutions that are essentially state in the state. And the basic question is fellow Maric whether this commission will treat these gentlemen in the thick shade in the same way and not knowing what benefits all of Croatia's benefits have.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3817	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3818	Comrade Bulj, I'm sure the Commission will treat everyone equally, but the legal framework needs to be changed because the Commission can't function well with this legal framework. For example, when you spoke about the Croatian National Bank and the Governor. Imagine the vice governor and the governors have paid and were outside members of the council but they took advice. And there was a fee set by the outside members of the council. They also paid themselves compensation for work on the council. It's like the president of the HEP administration pays himself another bonus of 10, 12, 15 thousand kuna because he has HEP management, because he has HEP management every Tuesday. So once a month, they had and had advice, and they added more. When there were no more members of the outside council, they added this fee of 15 thousand kuna to their salary. And it's all visible, but no one can do it because we need to change the CNB Act. But I didn't make it to the end before, so I'm gonna take this opportunity. Imagine that there are officials or those who should be or who should pass the property card which they are not, have both savings and at the same time credit. He's got his savings, but he's also on loan. And imagine a higher amount of savings than the amount of credit. So by what logic, and always in the economy, it's the rule that loans and credit activities are financed from savings, that interest on savings is less than interest on credit, what are big minds that have more savings and won't pay off credit. And you know why? Because they have more interest on the deposit on savings than they pay interest on their loan. You know how many there are. But we can't and are not involved in this. There are even those involved in this. They have a subsidized interest, they use such a loan, at the same time the deposit 7% on the deposit took interest for several years. Half as much today, though. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3819	Replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Maric, you listed a number of those who should be covered by the Law of Conflict of Interest and who are certainly in conflict of interest. But today, I have been talking about it all day in this report and its improvements after the information and after new models. So here I am wandering the Internet and looking for what happened with the public procurement in the Committee itself in the plan, the procurement plan for 2014 as well as the register of public procurement contracts and framework agreements that should be on the pages and I haven't found them, either for 2014 or 2013. Although the law says we should be. For 2015 there are and I printed it and there is all the bazaarly procurement, so that everything is transparently published. However, it is strange that in this report, the contract itself concluded on 1 July 2014 has neither the number nor the class to be mentioned in this report in order to be published on the pages and visible what has been obtained, as it has been obtained. And even this firm that's listed here, which has been chosen and it has no special activities registered this business relationship and that contract. I don't know why it's like that, but here's the thing, when I went down there and I went looking, I didn't find all those elements that should be made up of the transparency of work and this commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3821	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3822	Thank you very much. My colleague Djakić, I saw that he had a plan for 2015 published, I didn't check this out but probably the president of the Committee will have a chance in the final word and will give an explanation. What I could conclude by studying the way the Commission handles conflict of interest I could conclude was that it was both modest people and modest behaviour and modest spending and rational spending of state budget money, have modest and modest budgets. That's my impression. And if any of this is what you said, I'd like the President of the Committee to be shown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3823	Replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3824	Your Honor. I'd just like to read this intelligence statement for a moment. One of the systematic countries, here's a short one. There is a strong need for reforms further in the administrative field, land books, procedures for issuing consent, cooperation between administrative authorities, in the fight against judicial corruption, too long duration of proceedings, application of rights, efficiency of many state-owned companies, and labour law, etc. If it has... Then the state what we do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like us to agree on all the questions. But if we can't agree that corruption is a cancer of the early communist societies why don't we help this commission that does its job, do its job properly? Why we've been waiting years to build an anti-corruption center at the state level, to introduce night courts. I wonder what the intelligence agency and other agencies in Croatia are doing. I'd like to know what he reads every morning on this president's desk and the minister receives a minister. I'm surprised, I'd say they've been dropping the smoke screen for 20 years if they didn't recognize it. What we need to do, because this is a security problem in Croatia, we are losing, a security problem. Why not call on the council for two days to discuss these problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3825	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3826	Thank you very much. Kola Glasovic, the best documents to see how public money is spent are the state audit offices. Is there corruption or does not need to be decided by the DORH on the basis of the reports delivered. And I think DORH has a lot of work to do there if he wants to work and wants to read those reports. As for the Committee, I think I've been here all day, that the Committee has the support of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and that we are looking forward to a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3827	Replica, distinguished representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Maric, I must congratulate you on your presentation. You're today I think from the heart you said what most of our Parliamentarians think, and maybe we don't have the courage to say it. And I have to admit that you've stopped today to defend the integrity of this House, one of the few. The fact you said in your statement that you believe that the media, not only the media, but also the public, deals exclusively with the salaries and benefits of parliamentary deputies. And then you've listed all the benefits that the MPs have from taxis, parking, etc. And there could be a lot of other things that the public doesn't know about. I must admit that we are either responsible for the concept and the relationship to the Parliament or we are guilty of parliamentary representations, because very often because we like to talk to the public about how much pay we pay, how to cut wages, how to cut benefits, because the parliamentary representatives are one great elite in this society, and then we get under the radar all of those you just counted on, who have huge sums of money that the public doesn't know about. Maybe we should start talking about those MPs who came from higher incomes to lower incomes, about them not being told by anyone in public, the media they're not interesting because they're for this society, forgive me for saying that word now. They're stupid because they came from higher up to lower incomes. Perhaps it is a solution, only that when we enter the Parliament, we give our incomes and that all four years we are on those revenues with which we have come to the Parliament, so how much you have come with and get out of the House. Maybe that's the answer. But then I'd be wondering how many people would be in the Parliament, with whom they would be in the Parliament, and if it would satisfy the public, but it's discrimination again. That's not right again. But once again, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that you are the only one today of all the MPs standing in defense of the dignity of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3829	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3830	Thank you very much, dear colleague Ana Comparic Devčić. You said it took courage, I don't think it needed courage. Here's me. It's totally natural and natural. You mentioned a conflict of interest. I'd add a conflict of jobs, and that's why we're often called. Until we make it clear once that he can't behave two functions simultaneously, professionally and qualityly, that he can't be mayor so it's just me or someone else and being a parliamentary representative. What's the mayor more occupied or more busy, so he can't, and the mayor can? The hospital's director can't run a hospital and be a parliamentary representative. You can't have the head of the clinic or the head of the clinic working, someone's not doing their job, you can't physically be in two places at all. If you're here this morning, you're not operating here today. If you're operating, then don't do your job. This should be made clear, but it is nice to be a parliamentary representative or something more than that, have a higher salary elsewhere and run parallelly to both places and because of such that the entire Croatian Parliament is humiliated all the time. That's why I don't confess to these volunteers. That's the kind of volunteers I've known her for how long. Let them resign, let them come here, and then we can talk. There. As far as these benefits are concerned, I don't like it personally, so I'll tell you something a little bit later, so you'll see. But I'll just say it. I received a delegation from an embassy today. Of course, I can't tell you what you're gonna drink so they don't drink anything. Who do you think paid? So I paid out of my pocket. I'm chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I pay the phone, and when I go abroad, and they call me at least 15 times, 20 times a day, I have to pick up. I was the only president of the board of all countries to pay my phone bill. And we have the slightest salary, but if we're a voting machine and that's what we need to be placed on, then we don't have to pay or get paid. [[Intruder Tepesh: Time.]] We come in Friday at 12:00, we raise our hands, we don't need any pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3831	Honorable representative Sandra Krpan, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3832	Dear counterpart Maric, you have encouraged me to say something about the position of politicians. I would really like to appeal that we must all be responsible for our words and our actions. In our media, I'm under the impression that there's been a hectic attack on politicians like people who are unemployed, liars, suspicious morals. Such perceptions are deeply offensive to me. I am deeply convinced that if we were all just being nice to each other, that Croatia would be a courteous country, and now, unfortunately, it is negatively scarred. I don't mind if the public had an insight into the property status of officials, but using that data to make politicians appear only in a negative light, they were ridiculed too. Every man, every profession deserves respect as well as politicians. We all have to keep the capacity of MPs together, including the level of debate. I would like to congratulate you, Mrs. Oreshkovic, on the excellent presidency of the Committee, and on all the members of the Committee and on my personal success in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3833	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Mario Klobučić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3834	Mr. Vice President, thank you for giving me your word, not only on the presentation of this colleague, but also on all of us, we can count ourselves here. We already have 20 minutes off topic so the injury is Article 238, so please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3835	Yes, thank you. The next reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3836	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Krpan, it is dangerous to generalise any group, and so must the parliamentary representatives or the directors or the priests or the professors or the dean, any group is very, very dangerous and not to be generalized, each individual is human to himself. But politicians, we as politicians when we agreed to be politicians we agreed to the public. Our cards are public, and let's be, I don't mind. They need to be public. But I do not agree that those who are much more exposed to conflict of interest, who are much more exposed to change of property using their position to know nothing about them. At least to equalize us, nothing else. We'll never get even in rights. I would like to know how much in one society, for example, this is nothing negative, HEP has official phones, mobile phones and as much in the Croatian Parliament. I'd like that information once. If I was a journalist, I'd be investigating him. But I didn't, so I'd just like to find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3837	Replica, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am, in my last eight years in this House, really listening to everything. First of all, we've never been guided by logic here, which would be very helpful in lawmaking and in bringing up these problems that you've been talking about, Mr. Maric. Not to talk about the population of individual politicians who want to stand out, so they do not know what they will and what they will do before the work of the Parliament begins, who will make bigger promises and clear the right of Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I agree, Professor. Lovrinović, and I'm glad you're the new party, you're not yet a party, I don't know about that, and you've come to the Parliament, but you've realized very importantly that you're not making any key decisions here, that you can discuss here for days, months, that your debate if it doesn't come to the right place will not be verified anywhere because everything we're saying today is heard by the Commissioner here for conflict of interest, but this needs to be heard by someone else where certain rights are being determined and where the laws are being written. So we did the other day when it was a public procurement debate, the State Commission. What the State Commission cares about, they hear it, they're changed tomorrow and where the laws are written again is written public procurement as the old one. Here's what we've said, all of you who've discussed here so far are facts and it's really true. So how and in what way do you save the integrity of this agent here who is systematically spit and disrespected? So let's cancel everything, we don't need to have any pay, we come at our expense, we don't need to have transportation fees, and we need to pay for it. And here people think that we're getting gratis and going and drinking and that I don't know what else we're getting, and basically we're not getting anything. And that's why that's the problem. We have disproved all of this here in the Croatian Parliament because we each made our contribution in a negative sense. So let the people of Croatia understand that we are at least in conflict of interest here because we are not deciding anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3839	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3840	My colleague Lucic, you really did say this great in the end. And what can I decide and what? Or you? What can you influence? Nothing. ... And you said rightly so, it takes logic. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The law should be important to everyone, that it is logical, enforceable, that it is natural and that it is lifelike. This isn't any of it. And that's why it needs to be changed. But you say where laws are passed, where laws are passed and where laws are to be written is the Croatian Parliament. And until the place is back in the Croatian Parliament to write the laws there will be one way or perhaps even worse. But who are we going to write the laws with? You don't have an office, you don't have a desk, you don't have an advisor, you don't have an expert associate, how do we do that? Therefore, it is necessary to change the paradigm politically and make fun of the current paradigm on which the political system rests. And we're invited to change that. And we're also responsible for the situation, not just turning into a voting machine as some would like. You don't have to go to the election for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3841	Final word, I call upon the chairman of the committee, Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3842	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. I hope that no one will get the wrong idea if I say that I am personally expressing one satisfaction that in this debate we could in some way hear quite united or at least harmonised views of different representatives clubs on certain issues that we have raised in the report. In particular, if the Croatian Parliament respects those remarks, what the Commission pointed to as a weakness of the system and at the same time proposed certain solutions to correct these weaknesses. I am also pleased that the debate has also focused on how to restore the reputation and integrity of politics as a profession in general. And it's one of the important tasks of this commission. The commission listened carefully to everything we had here today, and we will surely appreciate that in our further work, especially those remarks and remarks that are actually I would say constructive and will certainly lead to some progress and improvement. Well, for a short time, I'm just going to point out a few basics. One of the main tasks of the Committee is educational activity. This education concerns all levels of government officials. In this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the commission sent a brief brochure to each individual representative, where we briefly pointed out all the basic obligations arising from this law, and in due time we delivered it to each official's personal mailbox, and I believe that all officials had the opportunity to get acquainted with those deadlines that begin to run in connection with the submission of the property report. In relation to any technical difficulties that may arise when filling in an electronic form, I would also point out that our obligation and our duty to provide a hand and to be one service to officials is therefore not only a control body, but literally a service, as one partner institution that each individual official can contact at any time. All those who have pointed out in due time that the fall-down menu system does not provide for a particular section, for example if it is about the entry of real estate or other data relating to something that is abroad, the commission has, within a very, very short time, found a technical solution to make such a lack and correct. If it is true that the Falling Menu system did not include the Living Wall party in due time. Then this opportunity and Mr. Sincic and his strangers, I express my apologies. I would also like to say that in the Commission's work so far in the first year of office, it achieved a total savings of nearly 1 million kuna. In the second year of the term of office, however, in 2014 for which this report was submitted savings of around half a million kuna. So despite the translation of a project of information in which a new product was created, savings were achieved. The commission has indeed saved on every item of its expenses. What we have created is a product that can serve as a half-almost solution for other state bodies, and from that comes further savings, here I am talking about the State Attorney's Council and the State Judicial Council. This product was also recognized by irrelevant international institutions, so the UNDP called on the Commission to give a lecture on a round table in Ukraine, in Kiev, so that our model, our system of electronic forms, the Property Report, would serve them as an example of how to improve and build its own system. It's a confession we have as a state and not just a commission as a competent body. As regards cooperation with the competent state authorities, primarily the Tax Administration, I would not like to misread what we have pointed out in this report, so it is not a matter of the tax administration's inadequacy to cooperate and to provide the Commission with the necessary data but rather a matter of respecting their objective capabilities, hence their human and technical resources. And that's exactly what the idea of actually creating an information program that's going to do automatic data processing, and we're just going to have algorithms throwing out what's illogical and what's the anomalies that require us to run other mechanisms from this law. In this sense it will be necessary to carry out further upgrades, what we have set as the basis for this very much allows. The initiative that the property card in electronic form will connect with the system of e-Citizens is actually our initiative. We are glad that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported it, and I am glad that this is supported through this debate. Of course, it should be respected that most officials are not yet involved in the system of e-Citizens, so actually this debate may also be one incentive to take care of that too, so when fulfilling the obligations under this law. But what's most important is that I started in my opening statement when I said that the Commission is a relatively young institution, which is where I primarily thought about the period during which the Commission acts as a permanent, independent and independent state body. Of course, the Committee as an institution must build its trust, i.e. public reputation and image, but not only in public with citizens and media but also with officials themselves. What the statistics show to this day is that the Commission held a total of 130 sessions in this Suziv. They took over 350 decisions to initiate the procedure, over 100 decisions on the non-starting of the procedure, final decision 275, and imposed about a million and 200 thousand kuna sanctions. We also gave over 500 reasoned opinions and observations. What the Committee, I believe, has at least gained some trust and respect in the public, is neither the number of cases launched nor the fact that the proceedings are being initiated against all levels of officials, as well as members of all political parties and options, but the reasons on which the Commission makes its decision. And very detailed arguments stating each single item, every material evidence based on which we have determined whether something constitutes a violation of the law or not. This builds the integrity and credibility of each individual body. What I believe is that the result is the fact that there is one expectation that the Commission in the same situation will react and act in the same way. This does not apply only to the conduct of those proceedings in which, due to the infringement of a specific rule, the official may be given sanctions. That's what I'm saying in the context of principle. The law stipulates that officials in the conduct of public duties are obliged to act with honor, honesty, conscience, responsibility and impartiality, maintaining their own credibility, dignity and entrusted responsibilities, but also citizens' trust. The construction of the principle did not go through procedures to determine their injury. She's been going through days of thinking and being obvious. I will reiterate that we have given more than 500 such opinions in our work so far. Through them is a system of recognizable rules of conduct and standards expected by officials. Of course, what is the law, any law, and so on, and this one in a more consistent application, it will be more seen by its indifference, the weak side. Of course, there will be new problems that need to be found appropriate solutions. I believe that the answer to such issues cannot be found only for discussion when submitting the report on the work of the Committee for an individual year. I think round tables are needed and I think there is a need for expert thematic discussions involving relevant experts of constitutional or administrative law. Of course, the officials this law applies to themselves. But it is also important that, in the debate, we move away from individual names and last names, rather than really commit ourselves to the problem of finding together the right answer in which to change this law, both jurisdiction and purpose of the Commission's existence, to give the right content to ultimately achieve the level of democracy that today's society needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3843	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3844	The next vote will be on the Committee's 2014 report on the conflict of interest decision. The report shall be submitted by the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interests for 2014 is hereby adopted. Please vote. The vote is over. 101 votes for, five abstentions. I find that most votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3845	We move to the next item of the agenda - (a) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War - (b) The proposal for a decision on the appointment of president and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 12. Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. The motion for an act has been delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. I would like to invite the proposer's representative, Culture Minister Zlatko Hasanbegovic, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3846	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War found that the President, Vice-President and members of the Governing Council appointed and resolved the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Accordingly, at the meeting held on 4 February 2016, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established a proposal for a decision on the resolution of presidents and members of the Governing Council. At the same session, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established a proposal for a decision to appoint the President and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. So, the President of the Administrative Council was appointed academician Franjo Sanjek and a member of Dr. Miroslav Akmađa, historian from the Croatian Institute of History. Let me just have a briefer lab. It is not about the resolution of the President of the Administrative Council and the previous member, more specifically about the shift, but about the fact that the Ministry of Culture and thereby the Government of the Republic of Croatia found resignations from the former President of the Administrative Council of Dr Krona Kardov and a member of the Administrative Council in front of the Ministry of Culture, Mr Cedomir Višnić. They resigned on 16 January 2015 and Mr. Kardov on 21 January 2015. For unknown reasons, the Ministry of Culture and then the Government was in no way obvious to their resignations. Mr. Kardov, in his resignation, did not state the reasons why he resigned, and Mr. Cedomir Višnić stated in his resignation, among other things, that the reason is that, I quote: "In the last few months, a campaign has been launched against me in public after which my membership in the Governing Council can no longer bring benefits." etc. Not giving you more detail what it's all about. I remind you, it is a constant controversy regarding the attempt to replace the director of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre Mr. Akmađa which has not been implemented. The Ministry of Culture also found those resignations and, in accordance with its powers, proposed to the government a new President of the Governing Council and a member. They're actually the old president and members. According to the previous government, academics Franjo Shanjek and Dr. Miroslav Akmaju, who are now in some way re-chaired and a member of the board of directors. Academic Franjo Shanjek is a prominent historian with an international reputation, Dr. Miroslav Akmaja is a scientific advisor at the Croatian Institute of History, so in the highest scientific title he is also a renowned historian. And we believe that it is appropriate candidates for the chairman of the Management Board and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3847	I thank the Minister of Culture. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Damir Krsticevic, appeared in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3848	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, respected fellow MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry this is the time, I think this institution, the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, deserves that in this great, honorable hall, there are a lot of MPs, but, unfortunately, that's how it is. We have before us a proposal, as we see, on the discharge of the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, or a proposal for a decision to appoint a new president, as well as a member of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. The Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War I believe that we will all agree to represent a particularly important type of institution, an institution whose importance and importance I think there is a general social consensus. The purpose and task of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre is not only contained in the purpose of one factography or the presentation of the historical sequence of events and moments of importance in terms of acquiring and independence and establishing the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia on complex circumstances of the former state's disintegration, but the task of this centre of respected colleagues and colleagues is also contained in something equally important, and this is an attempt to pass on to the present and future generations of a collective emotion that permeated the Croatian people, or by far the largest number of our people. And who besides all those pictures of war suffering is indeed one of the direct links to the period of our Homeland War. This collective emotion that I am talking about is precisely a national charge, awe, patriotism, patriotism and whose strength has managed to bridge all those unsolicited circumstances in these key moments of birth and the consolidation of the then-born Croatian state and which we have raised, we raise and develop at the plantations of democracy, pluralism and ageing respect and the development of human rights and freedoms. That is why I particularly stress the mentioned dimension of this emotion, the charge and respecting every difference is aimed at materialising the dream of the own state. And it is therefore a demanding task to convey it, that emotion, means to establish our Croatian state. And we all know it's not that simple. So I think that regardless of some things in life somehow already begin to be taken for granted as something that has come for some automation, as something that is in itself understandable. In particular, this can be challenging in relation to younger generations, or those who will only be born. Of course, these children will have a certain level of awareness based on family influence, environmental impact, school and education systems and on the Homeland War and the price that in the light of the loss of human lives, mutilations, emotional suffering and material destruction paid for so that we and our children would enjoy the benefits of the existence of the Croatian state. But we must be realistic, also consider that these same children will have their own preoccupations and priorities, and therefore the task among others is the Memorial-documentation centre that memories of the turning moments of the modern Croatian state and this adequate perception is created in a way that will best penetrate the desired and future generations. And in this regard, and also from the position of one of the proud participants of the Homeland War, I believe that this institution is very important for our country and that it has played a significant role, especially in this struggle for the truth about our Homeland War, especially for our generals. So I am convinced, as well as the HDZ Club fully supports that Mr. Academyman Franjo Sanjek as the proposed President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, as well as Dr.sc. Miroslav Akmaj, as a proposed member of the Board of Directors of the Department of Management of the Centre, is said to be the people who have already been meaning in the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, and I believe that they have both the professional reference and the emotion I spoke about and that they also have that qualification that they can be in that place. And I believe that they and the director of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre Mr. Ante Nazor, as it has been so far, will do everything possible to keep this centre a strategic institution that will convey the truth about our Homeland War to future generations in Croatia. And I believe that they will continue to safeguard and cherish the values on which our Croatian state was created, which is the Homeland War. In this respect, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the appointment of the proposed candidates to the positions or duties in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3849	Thank you. The following came to the debate, honourary representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3850	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we have before us the appointment of presidents and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. And I just want to say for a little while that I'm not bothering you with the fact that there's been a review of actually members of the board of directors in the previous composition. On the 20th session of the War Veterans Committee, held on 1.10.2014, an external member of the War Veterans Committee asked a concrete question as to whether a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre was an associate of the military, etc. The landscapes. We also asked the Ministry of Culture, Minister Andrei Violić, on which we did not get a concrete answer. Afterwards, he also asked the President of the Governing Council, who was also a member of the Document, and together with neighbouring Serbian publishers, printed some printing presses that were even anti-Croatian. All these events discussed on the Committee on War Veterans were offered by the board to oblige the Director of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, which, in conclusion, was obliged by the Director to obtain documentation saying that Cedomir Višnić was an associate of the so-called The Krajina army. And it was delivered to the next session of the journal that shows it and shows it. His diary, where he recorded all the crossings across the river, all the tips, etc. And these are the causes of which neither the minister nor the club has been told about, and it is good to know why such a procedure occurred because, unequivocally, in the report submitted by Mr Ante Nazor as the director of the documentation collected from the Serbian province in the occupied areas that were later released and these documents were seized, there was this knowledge. Here are the reasons why dissatisfaction is also a reduction in the budget and only a disagreement with the policy and direction of the director of the centre as well as the employees who wanted to truly describe all the events of the Homeland War which are through such terrible materials collected through the videos, through commands, through the press and so on. Yugoslav armies as well as the Serbian Krajina armies, as well as the Corps that performed in certain areas, can be clearly concluded today that someone was actually bothered by it. As well as the categorisation of the centre from one group put in third to reduce the salary, so as to lose both the elan and the incentive further to work as well as everything else. And this today's appointment of these honorable people who will certainly perform with dignity and represent the work of the centre and the truth about the Homeland War is needed, but it was necessary today to explain and how these members who were in the board of directors have been reassessed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3851	Replica esteemed representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3852	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's just one sentence. My colleague Djakić I do not really enter why and how it came but after Mr Krstičević spoke in the way he really spoke more about this memorial documentation centre he did not need a word. Indeed not, I support every word Mr. Krsticevic said and he said so nicely and said that this centre should be a youth education centre, that we should never forget and that is where it should be finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3853	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3854	Well, fellow Members, it's your right to have that conclusion. I know the truth always hurts. Your members of the War Veterans Committee so hurt this appointment that they left the session and refused to vote on it. Then we know what your attitude is as individuals, as well as the SDP club as a whole. We understand that this bothers you because it was you who proposed such persons, you proposed such persons who were associates of the enemy army in the Croatian Memorial documentation centre to manage them to destroy them, not to promote them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3855	Dear Representative Darko Paric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have a very simple objection to the Rules of Procedure under Article 238 because no MP can belittled or insulted by the chairman or other MPs. This was a clean insinuation of who has some kind of attitude and not to say the banging of an absolute representative of Djakic which is not worth this Parliament at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3857	I'm taking away your word now because you're using an inappropriate dictionary, and I didn't realize that MP Djakic insulted you, but only found out the fact. Unless my colleague is telling the truth that the SDP's representatives are on the board, I'm not going to say it again. So no one has answered the word further, and I am closing the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow at 9.30 we continue the meeting with the point of the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2014. Session adjourned at 6:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-03-02-0.u3858	We now have the first proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War under a). A (b) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. The proposer of both decisions is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting first on the Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Please vote. The vote is over. 102 votes in favour, five abstentions. I find that most of the votes have been decided. And of course now under 2. I am voting on the motion for a decision to appoint a president and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Please vote. The vote is over. 97 votes for, nine abstentions, one against. I find that most of the votes have been decided as proposed. That's what we'd end up with today's work, and if someone didn't call me by accident. I announce Wednesday's extension of the session on Wednesday 9 March at 9.30 p.m. The first item will be the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. The information is provided by the Croatian National Bank. Session interrupted at 14.47 p.m.
