ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-19-0.u7185	Dear MPs and MPs, I wish everyone a good morning! We're moving on with the session. Here you go, dear representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-19-0.u7186	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I request a break on behalf of the club that I inform the Parliament about the political and media links to say so to Bishop Komarica, who followed the visit of the official delegation of the Croatian Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including Banja Luka.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-19-0.u7187	Thank you. So, I'm setting a break for 10 minutes. We'll continue at 9.45 p.m. ... Excuse me, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj, come in. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-19-0.u7188	Thank you very much. I am looking for a break because of the alarming news from the European Commission that has stepped up the payment of agricultural incentives for Croatia amounting to 2.23 billion that deserve the attention of the Parliament and parliamentary representatives as well as the general public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-19-0.u7189	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-19-0.u7190	For these same reasons, the SDP is looking for a break, which is why a fellow Bulj is looking for alarming news.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-19-0.u7191	Thank you. Haven't I seen anyone else? That's it. Here's to 9.45. I'll set a break and then we'll continue the session. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I would ask distinguished representative Boza Ljubic to explain the reasons for the break on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-19-0.u7193	... Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I asked this pause to inform you of a political media hajj which continues to lead to the Banja Luka bishop Mr. Franji Komarica during yesterday and today. [[Specially enabled.]] For the past few days, I have had opportunities with a delegation of the Croatian Parliament twice to attend the appearances of Mr. Komarica first on Bleiburg where he led the Holy Mass and then on his visit to Banjaluca in a delegation led by the President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner. Both of these visits were sent by messages of reconciliation, tolerance, cooperation, but also pointed to the dramatic position of the Croatian people in the BIH especially in an entity called... Republika Srpska and where the largest part extends and the diocese of the bishop Komarica. It is surprising, in fact, that this hack came from the official representatives of Republika Srpska and after the president of the entity Mr. Milorad Dodik resented Mr. Komarica for his, the dramatics of his comparison of what happened to the Croats in Republika Srpska with what happened in Bleiburg. All the ruling parties from Republika Srpska joined, including the mayor of Banja Luka, which I will quote, so I took this iPod, so "In my name and on behalf of the city administration, I strongly condemn yesterday's statements by Bishop Komarica, in which I compared Banja Luka with Bleiburg, trying to justify his visit to Bleiburg where he also led a religious ceremony to those who during the 2nd Settish War in Banja Luka committed atrocities." Furthermore in the SNZ statement, the SNZ strongly condemns Bishop Komarica, assessing that it is not only a reckless act of one bishop but that the statement by the crown of Komarica is a long-standing irresponsible step in the political public, Dodik's co-workers said. The opposition PDP is also the same bishop never condemned the crimes that the Ustasha army led to listen to the Catholic priests committed in the Banja Luka villages of Drakulić, Motika, Donjo Gradina, etc. Furthermore, it is evident that the statement by Bishop Komarica is only part of the conscious policy of the Catholic Church in the BIH as a continuation of the inappropriate address of Cardinal Puljic on the former patriarch of Serbia's Janej is listed by the PDP, whose honor is Mr Ivanic, who is a member of the presidency and this is the statement by Mr Igor Crnatk, who is the minister of foreign affairs of the BIH, also a senior PDP official. I don't want to shut up or exaggerate here because crimes are too big. Persecution, liquidation, confiscation of Croatian property in Republika Srpska's entity during the war and after the war reminding fellow MPs here that Croatian council members in the Dervent municipalities and other municipalities in Republika Srpska who were formerly majority Croatian 5 years after the war had to come with SFOR transporters to attend municipal council meetings. I want to remind you here of what's going on today, and that's why I'm here to quote just a few words from Bishop Komarica's letter. "I would like to remind you and inform you of the extremely dramatic and difficult state of the Croatian population, especially in the diocese of which is in the entity of Republika Srpska where Croats and Catholics are today led to the phase of total disappearance. Of the former more than 150 thousand Croats in the area of municipalities and cities that brought fewer than 10 thousand to the RS entity throughout the BIH entity area." So the number of Croats dropped to 5%. Absurd is a larger team that is an area on the EU threshold, an absurd team is bigger that Croatia, which is an EU member, has not done as much as it could. So these are the words of Bishop Mosquito. I would also like to quote the same sentence from his dramatic letter, why then the Croats as the domiciled oldest people in this area should disappear from this space. The experience of war and war so far teaches us that it is, as I am explicitly told, because of the "threefold guilt" that is being imputed to us first because we are Croats, the second that we are Catholics and the third is the fault that we want to stay in our homeland and we do not want to give it up. And it is these attacks actually aimed at both the Croats and the Catholic Church that confirm these words of Bishop Komarica. And finally to say this, you're all familiar with the political diplomatic incident when there was no Croatian flag on the speaker to address President Reiner. My first reaction back then was when they did this to the President of the Parliament what do they do to the Croats? The second thing, the way Croats are now being persecuted from the entity Republika Srpska is the Property Act where if it has not been used for 10 years is being taken away, unless tax is actually paid and property is inaccessible and unusable. Other ways are, of course, judgments to former campers seeking their rights, so now they have to pay high taxes ranging from 5 to 10 thousand marks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-19-0.u7194	Thank you. I would only ask distinguished MPs and MPs to stick to time, so as much as possible. Five minutes is enough to articulate the reasons for the break. Here, I would like to ask the distinguished representative, Mira Bulj, to explain the reasons for the break on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go. Wait a minute, fellow I'm asking you a little yes, fellow Shucker I beg you to, I beg you, but here, I know it's morning and that we haven't yet... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-19-0.u7195	Dear Vice-President, fellow MPs and fellow MPs are alarming news that the European Commission has stepped down the payment of agricultural incentives for Croatia worth 2.23 billion kuna deserves our attention as Parliamentarians and the entire public. The money that is crucial for the survival of domestic agriculture and villages thanks to the former minister and his co-workers at stake. In a report of the audit signed by Kristina Borhman of the European Commission's agriculture and rural development administration, the European Commission said that a number of irregularities were found with Croatian projects that were supported during the mandate of former Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Therefore, for Croatia, the payment of generous support for measure 4 from the rural development programme amounting to nearly $1.23 billion was suspended. The payment of penalties for irregularities in the implementation of the IPARD is also apparent. For now, it is mentioned that 5% of the total support from the fund would be withdrawn and would amount to 1.3 billion kuna. The embarrassing results caused by the procedures that the state administration has done irresponsiblely while the Minister of Agriculture was Tihomir Jakovina can be read from the audit documents delivered to Croatia. The Borhman submitted arguments for possible sanctions after the European Commission auditors carried out surveillance of IPARD and measure 4 between 8 and 12 February. A detailed explanation of the Borhman audit findings was provided on May 5th on page 19. In its address, Borhman clearly states that the supervision was activated because they had serious doubts about the creation of artificial conditions in measure 4 since the companies that received the support were founded 3 months before the tender was announced had the same owners, address, contacts, persons, all projects were completely complemented and the required support corresponded to the maximum amount. I remind you that the first tender was announced before the European Commission chose a rural programme and the amount of support increased by 500 million to 1.2 billion, 23 billion kuna, up to 50% of the total amount available by 2020. It states that former Minister Jakovina was objecting to the increase, but the minister apparently ignored the European Commission's warning. The minister also ignored the cries of small farmers, the OPGs who, after the Ministry of Agriculture made it clear, were expecting the last straw of the rescue for agriculture from the rural development programme. However, the haughtiness and insensitivity of former Minister Jakovina in the white world has also sent more than 500 thousand from Slavonia alone, 50,000 to those to whom Europe has allocated funds from the rural development programme. And just to keep them in their rural space as guardians of the same. Furthermore, in the report, Borhman warns of the absurd situation and I quote part of the report. The paying agency has investigated controversial projects only after high public pressure and has not identified irregularities. Not a single project directed to other bodies for further research. It estimates that it is a good circumstance, however, that money is not paid and that it is for Croatia to tell that such projects should be financed exclusively by EU funds. This clearly proves that the rules made in the mandate of Minister Jakovina to the extent that several selected entrepreneurs who founded four companies and artificially created conditions received 5m euros for their projects, as much as 90% return for their investments. Although the associations of farmers and producers... The consultant was warned of numerous favors and irregularities and procedurals of the Ministry of Agriculture regulations as well as the competent paying agency in agriculture completely ignored the voice of reason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a matter of time before the EU institutions react to the inappropriate implementation of measure 4 but we are afraid this is not the last warning. The consequences of Croatia will certainly not be pleasant because this will make it even bigger... The European Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The audit findings warn not only the failures and shortcomings of the control system but also the issue of political, professional and criminal responsibilities for non-compliance with the rules governing support in rural development. The competent authorities must understand that the illegality of favouring the Croatian way that has all been present in recent years can hardly be promoted by the European audit services whose basic task is to protect the spending of money from EU funds. I am also opening the issue of abuse of the position and authority of the former minister and his team. I believe that because of their responsibility to the taxpayers because they will pay the tax of the relevant institution they must necessarily initiate the process of determining them because this is from the former Minister of Agriculture, in essence the last nail, if this is not resolved by the last nail in the case of Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-19-0.u7196	Thank you. I ask the honourable representative Tihomir Jakovina to explain the reasons for the break on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-05-19-0.u7197	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The theme is the same but with a completely different sign, what my colleague Bulj is saying and asking for responsibility for the alarming news is actually something that is a classic example of distracting the public from the problems we are currently having, from the affairs that are shaking Croatia and with the problems this government has through the other side and the efficiency and the blockade of the system itself. ... The INA affair, an attempt at telephone sales of Podravka, ACI and other major Croatian companies, should in some way share the responsibility or find what the last government did not do well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we are particularly proud of the Ministry of Agriculture and this is the use and business of EU funds, a strategic document of the rural development programme adopted in the spring of 2015 among the first 30 programmes of 118. All that we have set up and implementing bodies, the Agency for Payment in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, which was named in 2015 by the best agency of all Member States' agencies and all that we have taken on the use of funds. I will remind this tall body that we are the SAPARD which was our pre-accession fund, where we were supposed to train until 2007 used below 50%, that the IPARD that we had for the period 2007/11, 2007/'13. We used at the end of the whole period with about 70% use and in the first year or when I became Minister at the end of 2011, the contract was below 20%, the use in a few percent. So we've also managed to pull the maximum funds through that IPARD and prepare the entire system for use, so let's get all the rural development programs. The rural development programme itself, 333 million euros a year is available to our farmers but not only farmers for good projects but also for the food industry, for demining agricultural land, for commercial affairs, for irrigation, for everything we have fenced through the measures in this rural development programme. In the last few days, I have once again said with one single reason, and this is a distraction to the public, it is said that this programme has been designed to please some to work untransparently for Minister Jakovina to determine, write a contest and choose who will get what are classic lies and untrues. You and your colleagues should know that there is a particular body called the Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Rural Development Programme, in which the representatives of the ministries and chamber representatives and representatives of the agricultural producers of the associations and representatives of the European Commission have both approved procedures and protocols and competitions and the criteria you are talking about. These same people from the European Commission approved these criteria under which tenders were carried out. The first competition of April last year reported 1280 projects with demands of more than 2 and a half billion kuna. It is an incentive for Croatian agriculture and the Croatian food sector. We worked out the criteria, we set up a program to be as good as possible or as close to the Poles who used and used these funds in the first financial period in the same way. The consequence of this, all of this is actually complaints and pressures from stakeholders and consultants who haven't passed this contest. They are the biggest critics, they sued the Republic of Brussels, they wrote to the Commission to help some of our politicians, help some of our esteemed MEPs or parliamentarians who went to sue, sue the Commission, look for reasons to cancel this contest so that then some other projects that were probably otherwise selected by another team would be funded. Gentlemen, that's bad! This way, by blocking the system, we question whether we will be able to use the allocation for 2014 at all because we have three years to use Nplus 3 of these funds, four years we have a new minister and a new team. They could have changed the procedures, they could have opened a new set of tenders that our farmers would have reported, not blocked the system. But the consequences of criminal responsibility, we've heard it from some government representatives, I'll just say one sentence. In the Square of Fascism there is a group of thrones that are very active on social networks and have very aggressive right-wings and comments on everything on social networks. Sometimes some of them seem to run away, and they leave and the most aggressive, loudest, most unspeakable end up in the government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm standing with my team, with my team behind what we did. We have done everything in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and Croatia. I expect my fellow Roma, the new minister, from a new team in the ministry to continue at this pace and to use EU funds for the benefit of Croatian agriculture. Not making up affairs, not making up problems, but making decisions and working for the benefit of Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
