ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3285	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion, the State Audit Office provided the Croatian Assembly with a report on the financial audit of the political parties of independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional, regional self-government selected from the list of voters for 2014. The financial audit covers entities that made revenues of more than 100 000 kuna in 2014, which are 14 parliamentary and 16 outside parliamentary political parties, 6 independent representatives and 2 members of local unit representative bodies. In addition to the mention, the financial reports for 2014 were made for 40 outside parliamentary political parties, 100 members of the representative bodies of local units and one member of the representative body of the local unit whose term of office had ceased before the time to which it was elected, with revenue of more than 100 000 kuna. The review of political parties expressed 14 unconditional, 14 conditional and 2 unfavourable opinions for the Croatian peasant party Autohton and the Bosniak Democratic Party of Croatia. For independent MPs, 4 unconditional and 2 conditional opinions are expressed. For one member of the representative body of the local unit, it shall be expressed unconditionally and for another conditional opinion. The total revenues of the audits covered by the political parties amounted to €114.8 million, most of which relate to revenues from the state budget of €53.5 million and revenues from the budget of local units, €42.1 million. Other revenues relate to membership fees of 8.8 million kuna, 4.9 million kuna donations and revenues from other sources worth 5.5 million kuna. The expenditure amounted to €117.5 million and the value of the assets and liabilities from their own sources on 31 December 2014 amounted to €71.5 million. The total revenues of independent MPs amounted to slightly more than 2 million kuna and were achieved from the state budget and other sources. Their expenditures amounted to a billion and 732 million kunas. The audit of political parties identified irregularities relating to the internal control system, accounting operations, or the development of an annual work programme, financial plan, business books, financial reports, list of liabilities and claims, revenue and expenditure, and the use of business space without payment of compensation. In addition to the office mentioned, it also carried out a check on the delivery of annual financial reports to political parties, independent representatives and members of local unit representative bodies whose mandate is under way. The financial reports were submitted by 110 political parties, of which 102 within the prescribed deadline, 8 outside the prescribed deadline, while 45 political parties failed to submit financial reports. All independent representatives submitted financial reports within the legal or prescribed period. Of the 900 members of the representative bodies to whom the mandate is under way, 36 have not submitted financial reports. A review of the publication of political parties' financial reports and independent representatives has also been published. Its financial reports were published by 70 political parties until 85 extraparliamentary political parties published financial reports. All independent representatives have published financial reports on web sites. I would like to point out here that the Office has notified the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia and delivered the full documentation on all established infringements of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3286	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS and Furia Radina Club, the first representative of Giovanni Sponza will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3287	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Mr. Klesic with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. As the report itself shows, the State Audit Office carried out a financial audit of 30 political parties, 6 independent representatives, 2 members of the representative bodies of local self-government units, has also carried out a verification of the delivery of annual financial reports of political parties, independent representatives and members of local unit representative bodies to which the mandate is under way. In addition to that, the financial statements in 40 extraparliamentary political parties and 100 members of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government who did not submit their annual financial report and who did not submit their annual work programme have been made available. As we have just heard from the main state auditor on financial reports and the business of political parties for 2014 there are 14 unconditional, 14 conditional and 2 unfavourable opinions. Therefore, in this occasion, I am proud to point out that the State Audit Office has expressed an unconditional opinion on the financial operations of the IDS for 2014, and the IDS has received an unconditional opinion from the State Audit Office for the sixth year in a row. It actually confirms that we in the IDS are very well aware that citizens in Istria expect our party to comply with the legal rules, which is also under normal but also full transparency of work. And that's very good that the citizens of Istria expect that from our party because we in the IDS consider the revision to be particularly important but we also see the revision as a welcome subject. An entity whose task is to verify the truthfulness of financial reports and to verify the correctness of the acquisition of income and the verification of the application of the legislation. However, starting from the fact that the State Audit Office in this report, except for 14 unconditional opinions, expressed 14 conditional and 2 unfavourable opinions, but also taking into account that today citizens' confidence in politics, and thus on political parties at a very low level, it is an obligation for us parliamentary representatives to insist on conducting full transparency and accountability towards public funds. And that's why it's not acceptable for me to have those who, instead of their political work, get the money from the budget, which means from the citizens, spend the same money against the positive regulations, spend it on purpose, spend it for personal purposes. Thus, such an example is cited in this Report of the State Audit Office that a member of the representative body of money from the city budget, spent money on his fellow citizens against positive regulations, spent them on purpose. That, as a member of the representative body, the financial resources were used for his personal private needs, that he signed a loan agreement with himself, that the financial resources he used for personal private purposes had to be returned and did not return them to a special account for the regular financing of the activities of a member of the representative body. The State Audit Office states all of this and more than that in its report. Our club strongly condemns such an irresponsible approach to public funds because when someone gets money from citizens then the minimum that citizens expect is that money is used by purpose and according to positive regulations. But our club also expresses concern because after the State Audit Office has done its part of the job, identified irregularities, violations of regulations, unintended spending of the money of a member of the representative body in 2014 until today, 2 years later in 2016, there are no further actions by other state institutions. That should not be acceptable to anyone, especially to us. I bet that's something that needs to be changed. And to change that, I'm going to repeat that I really don't know which way we should start from ourselves. Dear colleagues and colleagues we are at the very beginning of this assembly, these examples require of us and full responsibility and insisting on transparency. In particular, it is the duty of all political parties and all independent groups, especially in today's difficult times. Our club wants to support this report, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3288	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the National Minority Representatives' Club, the Honorable Representative, Shandor Juhas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3289	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear fellow MPs. Here, let me put my opinion on this revision in a few words. My debate will go in two directions. In the first part, I will look back a little bit on the work of the audits, and in the second part I will point to a practical example when certain institutions of this country are so little too zealous and when their work actually leads to problems at the local level. The National Minorities Club will support this report and commend the work of the Audit Office and welcome the report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of local and regional self-government. We commend the work of the audit, which verified the legality, regularity of income acquisition and the validity of financial reports from 13 April to 10 December 2015. As reports suggest certain shortcomings should not be ignored, they are important to say a few. The audit pointed out some, that some political parties did not draw up basic financial reports in a manner consistent with the regulations and that data inaccuracy was detected. Furthermore, the annual work programme and the financial plan have not been adopted or adopted by the competent authorities of political parties or have not been adopted within the prescribed time limits. We agree with the recommendation of the revision and consider it necessary to introduce a more effective control system, i.e. The internal control system where it's not there. Furthermore, the review noted that some political parties did not have special books set up and conducted in accordance with regulations, e.g. No records of travel orders and official vehicles used and the book of obligations were kept. It is indeed about the basics of orderly business and which should be, should be respected. The report shows that part of the parties does not have a record of the local units that are obliged to finance them, nor do they know how much they owe them, and it is necessary for the parties to function. It is also necessary for expenditure to be linked to the achievement of the objectives set i.e. that money is spent in accordance with certain programmes. We discussed here the other day about the report of the spending of associations and institutions of national minorities, and when we discussed a lot of us were this sharp and we talked about just or far less of the violations and far less of the negativity, and this is how a lot of the storm rose. Well, I hope that the other colleagues who come behind me will also do so when it comes to political parties. For me, it is also a problem that has not been followed by recommendations and audit orders from earlier periods, so it has been found that 59% of cases have been handled without 33% of the warrants and recommendations being respected, and I therefore believe that this and the report are important and the work of the review is important to keep warning about these cases over and over again. We also commend the adoption of an ethnic code by 21 political parties and the rules of conduct of 5 political parties. The opinion of the review on the need to continue to improve activities related to the promotion of high ethnic standards among members and employees of political parties and to fully agree with that opinion. What we must also not interfere with is that everyone should adhere to the laws and regulations regardless of the amount of financial resources they have. However, I believe that differences should be taken into account and real sanctioning frameworks. And that's where the second part of my debate begins when I point out what it leads to if we're just too jealous and what it leads to if those who need to carry out those audits want something to prove that we shouldn't. In Baranja, in some units of the district self-government compensation for councilman's political work is 200 kuna. These are the funds that are allocated at a symbolic level and more or less most of those councilmen who are there and return those money to the municipality, give them up. So it happened that five years ago in a municipality of five councilmen who entered the independent list received a fee of 200 kuna at the annual level, they returned the 200 kuna neatly to that unit of local self-government. The audit found next year that they did not calculate the funds in accordance with the law and rules. Afterwards, the state's attorney's office did the right thing and initiated the procedure. And what happened? It happened that for 200 kunas that did not comply with the law, that is, the decision was made and they were punished with 80,000 kuna. With 80,000 kuna. They normally complained, when they complained their appeal was adopted, the fine was reduced to 800 kuna. But then the state's attorney's office complained and complained to the state's attorney's office and now they're asking these council members to be punished with 30 thousand kunas because it's like some real, real figure. So what happens now? It's a small unit of local self-government. It's about independent councilmen. For five years, they've been running through courts for five years, getting fines first of all 80,000 kn, and then 30,000 kn. We barely got them to be councilmen, to get inside the Municipal Council, we begged them, the godmothers go on that list to represent their community. And then he gets a fine of 80,000. And then what does he do? Don't show up in front of me anymore, look what you've made me do, my house will go to the drum, I don't have kids to eat, don't ask me for anything anymore, get out of my sight, I'm not going to do political work. And that's our daily life. I know we're all the same before the law, I know, and it's important that everyone is responsible for their actions. However, if such a situation arises, if such things happen on the ground I think a compromise solution should be found, I think it should be noted that someone who is for 200 kn should not be punished with 80 or 30 000 kn and that there should be some progress in all this. And final. As far as the revision is concerned, it is important that its accounts and recommendations enter the 2015 audit objectives and that the 2015 audit process determine all irregularities, but also to respect the real situation on the ground, including those I have talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3290	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HRID and independent representative of Shandor Juhas, and on behalf of the club will speak the distinguished representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3291	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I don't know how long you've been here for three weeks, a week and a half, so that's when we don't have other laws, other legal solutions, the government hasn't sent us. But that's a minor problem. What seems like a problem to me is that everyone praises you and that's good. It is good to praise them, but it is not a good thing that those who praise the revision do not draw conclusions. Because if they did, then we wouldn't be talking for so long these days, there wouldn't be so many irregularities, but by that folk eating the donkey wolf, you finish yours, you leave, and next year we'll point to the same mistakes that you'll find. So you're kind of like those great football players that the coach keeps praising, but he keeps on benching, he never lets them in the game. So, what is the fact that more or less political parties at least in this financial area and units of local administration have respected the law. But here the question arises whether they have fulfilled their basic task, whether political parties have made this society more politically mature, more democratic, and whether the local administration has made its citizens a better quality of life, conditions for staying in their local administration units. I know you'll say that any subject other than economics today is of second-rate importance. I'll agree with you in principle that there's no "but." Without any serious changes in the functioning of the political system, without preventing any political resistance, unfortunately, no good reform, no good law that regulates relations when we talk about the economy will liven up. Because without strengthening institutions, the openness of institutions, political parties, their democratisation unfortunately will not experience an economic recovery either. Because we are aware that even so far the biggest obstacles to economic development has been precisely a poor political system, immature, under-determined, which unfortunately had a consequence, it has today, and this is what Mr. Cacic was talking about yesterday developed ortacular capitalism and the agreed economy. I repeat, the economy is really important, but politics is the one that determines the future. Good policy makes every citizen's life better, and bad politics, unfortunately, only to political elites or individuals. And who is responsible for this rather than political parties? I'm going to quote a well-known university professor from Heidelberg who said Dieter Heermann that only internal democracy can prevent parties in democracy from becoming their own purpose and thus in a certain way foreign bodies and states in the country. Unfortunately, I fear that is exactly what is happening to the biggest parties in Croatia. Some have not realized that the process of building democracy in Croatia has not been completed by the collapse of communism and the establishment of a multi-party democratic system. Democracy is not something to be prescribed by law, democracy is something to be built on, something everyone should work on, and above all political parties. So since the 1990s, society has been divided into those who are in power and those who are about to come to power. Why is that? Because we have taught members of our parties, including citizens, that our parties are not communities of political values and political beliefs, but interested communities organised as structures of power. How, then, do you expect those who still identify politics with power? And let's be honest and admit in our parties it mostly comes from our leaders who become the standard of all things. So who knows well and in time what the party leader thinks his political career is unquestionable. And vice versa, any public opposition at best will end up being kicked out of the party, so-called. by dissidentism, which is unthinkable for us to use in a democratic society at all this term dissident because dissident is a concept that is exclusively related to single-party systems, to systems that don't tolerate different opinions, different attitudes. Because countries are more democratic, where democratic standards are higher and richer. That is true, we also testify as part of the EU, testify or should testify to our prime minister who has lived and worked in two democratic countries. And that is why I would like to take care of this precisely about the need to build a democratic political system as a priority and as one of the essential elements if we really want economic recovery. Unfortunately, in a democratic sense, we have not reached EU countries but the local administration has not shown us effective, although it is massive, wasteful, three-way clienteletist. Often the brakes change are small personnel and fiscally incompetent, very difficult to prepare programmes for withdrawing money from European funds and consequently not to be. Whether or not we have to admit that Croatia is too small a country for this big a country. The 570 units of local administrations and self-government are three times the EU average size. Of these, nearly 400 municipalities with fewer inhabitants of 5000 and 20% of municipalities made more than 50% of the total debts made by municipalities in Croatia. I'll remind you before the war in Croatia there were only 112 municipalities. A few days ago I read in a newspaper how 326 worked in Split and 436 employees today. It is also likely in Brod, Zagreb, Rijeka is the only one not in Solin. It's the only city if it's to judge by this statement, Mr. Mayor, who has fewer employees than he was in the '90s. In addition to the development of the Internet, better connections, new highways, literacy of citizens, etc. The logical situation is as long as the local administration and the general administration are considered to be the prey of political parties, the right to employ new political equalists and, of course, to preserve those that some previous political structure has brought with it. That's how old it is when it's staying, and the new one's coming. Finally you have the number of local officials, officials, officials who simply the Croatian state can no longer pay. The new government has promised to implement a serious reform of local administration and self-government, a serious reform of public administration, and I will remind you only that the German representative at Bundestag Klaus Peter Willsch said at a meeting of HDZ: "Don't promise in a pre-election campaign work in public administration, and when you come to power don't hire your friends and relatives there." Here's a chance to spend it and show that you're not like them before. At the end of the review, they can draw conclusions, warn, sit here for days but without reforms in public and local administration and self-government there is no social and economic recovery. I'm afraid the ruling didn't read all this because the reforms we represented during the pre-election campaign gave up at the speed of light years, citing the reasons that were once really at the level of a failed joke. We gave up, we didn't, our party was up for it, from a law that would reduce the rights of parliamentary deputies. I guess for the first time seen in the Croatian Parliament the reason for giving up is that most blame the minority for not implementing the law even though they don't need the same minority's hands. Well, dear gentlemen, even amendments to my own law can't change this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3292	Thank you. We have one whole sequence of replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3293	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Prgomet and you inspired me on the replica when you first spoke about how everyone praises the revision, and the question is whether it will be of some benefit and whether it will affect the democratic political economic development of Croatia. It's really good that there's something good in every bad one. It is bad that the Parliament does not discuss new legal solutions that would ensure Croatia's economic and political development but, in the absence of these new legal solutions, we have enough time to discuss some issues that have been here for a day and a half here before us and last week concerning the preconditions to ensure this development. Surely one of the main threats to development and the democratic and economic aspect of society is corruption. So just because the State Audit is with us for a day and a half, I would once again point out that for the first time we left the society of corrupt countries in the world. We've got 51 points, we're in 50. And what it says in that report, I'm going to quote, so the corruption perception index suggests that many countries still face the threat of corruption at all levels of government today. The countries most ranked show that the transparency of the system promotes social responsibility, economic development and reduces corruption, just as you said. In more corrupt countries, fortunately we are no longer one of the biggest challenges is corruption in the public sector, especially in areas such as political parties, public procurement and justice. So everything we discussed yesterday, today and last week. Corruption can also be reduced by free access to information and by clearly defining the rules of conduct of all those acting in public responsibilities. On the other hand, the lack of responsibility in the public sector with inefficient public administration favours corruption. Preventive bodies in the fight against corruption, such as the State Audit, the Commission's decision on conflict of interest, the Commissioner for Information and the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, so all the bodies and all the reports we have been discussing for 15 days should also be provided with additional financial resources and professional capacity, and would not have a political impact on their work. I hope that this debate of ours from last week and this week will just provide what is listed in this year's Transparency report.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3294	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3295	Dear colleague Prgomet, I agree with you that Croatia is a small country for this kind of administration, but I would only remind you, I think that Croatia and a small country are for this many political parties and that we have few original political parties and a lot of dedicated political parties because my distinguished colleague and friend Ratko founded two of his time when he needed and not only him, there are a lot of them, and I know that he will not be angry, so I mention. So that's one story that's really, it's a kind of electoral engineering, it's all legal and legitimate, I can't even judge it, but it certainly doesn't bring quality to the political life of the Republic of Croatia. The other thing I'd like to say is, I think the effects of the state's audit are very good and there's no need to doubt them. The political parties that are under government review I think they run their books, run their finances, run their business much, much better today than compared to 5, 6 years ago when the process began. I think that even now, even now, we are in a position to show through regular business the cost of the election that we are not harassing ourselves with the massive opening of accounts and all that, special bills for elections. But then, it is a matter of political will. I just can't do one thing but that can't even help the state review, how the findings of state audits and opinions are unconditional and then after 3 or 5 years you find a bag of money in the political party's safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3296	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet will respond. ... The colleagues of the Temple who sent you the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3297	The line was to me, but it was to my colleague, Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3298	Well, that's unfortunately happening in our Parliament, instead of responding to someone who should be telling someone else, but that's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3299	Okay, anyway, I don't have the authority to answer on behalf of my colleague Cacic, he'll do it himself very successfully. So first of all, I had no doubt at all about the work of reviewing the fact that the money bags were unfortunately our political history. The audit will not stop the money from being cut, but it can indeed do what it has always done so far, so it points to any possible misuse of public money. Secondly, when you spoke of political parties, I apologize, I will repeat, so political parties are the values of political beliefs. And until it is understood in our parties and in our society you will have so many parties. As long as freedom of speech in the political party is treated as something directed against the party and not in the development of democracy, you will have so many parties. Unfortunately, the Political Party Act is so well-conceived that you can start a party in which the party president himself determines members of the presidency. You can start a party named after a politician and his president will only be elected afterwards. So you can set up a party under far easier conditions and legal regulations than you can any civil association. So as long as this is the case, until we change the Law on Political Parties, and until we realize that within the party elections, not only are the party presidents' elections but also the time and space in which the political programmes, which are being debated, we will have a situation that dissatisfactions form their own parties because they believe that their political credibility can be shown in a different, democratic and opener way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3300	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3301	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Prgomet you said nicely that the standards in the work of political parties, that the standards in the work of political parties reached their levels, and so did the revision that establishes and has criteria for controlling the work of political parties as well as independent doctors, as well as representative bodies of local self-government units. They have clearly shown that the percentage of unconditional opinions that also do not have to be credible is increasing and has reached a level of 59.2% that perform their tasks, which listen to recommendations, which adhere to laws and regulations, internal acts. But one of the most important tasks of top audit institutions is to promote high ethical standards and values in the public sector, and one of the objectives of reviewing the financial reports and business of political parties has been to verify whether political parties have adopted codes of ethics or other documents which set out the rule of conduct, rules to prevent conflicts of interest, and high and clear standards of ethical behaviour that employees and members of political parties should respect, in particular members of political parties acting in public and political responsibilities, and how those rules apply in political and other activities related to the political party's activities. Those ethical standards, as well as the rules of conduct, should certainly be applicable to all parties. I mean, that's where it's not exactly like that. But what is still a challenge that 13 parties listened to the report of the review and the recommendations, and began to solve and execute them, while 33.9% did not absolutely listen and these were the problem, and I believe that the problem that did not bring either the ethical code, nor the rules of conduct, which did not listen to the State Audit's findings. And what was found to be a way away from the law, to be a way away from the rules that they didn't bring the rules and behaviors into party life.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3302	Thank you. The next replica will be her distinguished representative, Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3303	Here's how the review point can open up a substantial political debate. Mr. Prgomet said we should reform the units of local self-government which I absolutely agree to. However, with the circumstances last week, we also discussed the Law on Investments and the Law on State Property Management, and then all the political options agreed in their exposure that the main braker of economic and brake development was the state level of governance. Everyone said it loud and clear, of course in the media about it, not a single word. But if we're talking about local self-government units and reform, then I'm surprised we've heard a lot about it in pre-election time, and that's by all the political options, where, as a rubber, it's a decentralization. Decentralisation is reform, decentralisation means quality of life – functional and financial. I ask all of us what it would mean in a small country of Croatia if we redistributed and physically dislocated individual ministries on the territory of our beautiful one. Would that be a decentralisation process? Would that mean something in a demographic sense, too? We don't speak in the context of decentralisation we forget the rural part that means identity, and when cities lose villages, they lose everything, and when they lose everything, then they lose the state. So I think we're always dealing with the consequences for 25 years, and we never talk about the causes. So let's turn the decentralisation process first. I don't mind reforming public, local self-government. Some municipalities need to be joined together, maybe they don't need to be abolished, but let's do it in a smart and sustainable way. I'll repeat, we're dealing with causes, and let's stop dealing with the consequences. decentralisation is necessary and necessary for the growth and prosperity of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3304	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3305	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Prgomet, I fully agree with your debate, which is essentially a little out of review, which means that there are too many municipalities and cities we have more than Germany. In this case, if the great state is much larger than Croatia, we would have more councilors than America, what is complete in all synergy. I support you here, and I believe that when that law comes, you will be so bold that you will support us. Also, the basic problem should, in my opinion, be the legislative framework for allocating funds to political parties after the elections, because it is not good for me to enter from one list, and later to set up a party, so that the funds go to another party. So, as an individual, I'm starting my own ear off the Most list, no matter what I'm not a member of the Most, I could now register my list and take the funds of course, that's what I think and take those funds that belong to the political party from which I entered. I think that there should even be a change in the legal framework, because this creates a number of parties after the elections, and in fact citizens voted for those lists. They will say in the next elections whether these lists that have entered or are parties are essentially them, the only citizens who will assess the work in a four-year term or shorter. I also support you in this section that the legislative framework should be amended and it should be much more transparent and more indicative, although it is much better now than it has been so far. But you, too, are like an experienced parliamentary representative who was in the 5th convocation of this great home. I hope you've raised these questions back then, which is why these shifts happened. That was the time when Prime Minister Ivo Sanader was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3306	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3307	So, no debate in the Parliament that is a political body, and it's political, is beyond the agenda topic. Because we learn that this is a political body, this is not an audit society, but a body in which citizens who can and have the right to talk about any political subject they consider relevant. Secondly, regarding the formation of parties and the financial compensation that the parties take over for me is the most important thing that we all stick to the law. Nothing has been done past the law and as you have already mentioned me in the context of the Most, I expect the Most to answer our request that the funds we have received be donated to the 1st electoral unit. We haven't got the answer yet. Why do they donate? Because from the 1st constituency, I personally did not find it difficult to finance campaign 3rd constituency and your parliamentary representative from the 3rd constituency, your parliamentary representative from the 5th constituency and 4. Because I think that means like that should always be shared in a certain way, no matter how much anyone has in their private account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3308	Thank you. The next call came the distinguished representative Antun Vidakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I had the need to replicate my colleague Prgomet not only to him but more because in public, there are too many units of local self-government in Croatia. Since I have spent a long time doing this job I would like to know on the basis of which criteria determine whether there is too much or too little. I tend to think that if it's analyzed that, like any project, it's a project, it opens up a wide debate and we find out. For example, by comparing with France, France has 32 554 municipalities, has 99 departments and has 36 regions, I think. And so France has been functioning since 1789, and there has been no reform since the revolution. We will all agree that we would like Croatia to be as effective as France, in every respect, both politically and economically. And that's why my wish as a man who has really spent a long, long time in local self-government is that if it's about reforming local and regional and therefore state self-government, it's about doing it on the basis of a well-developed project, a project that would be adopted in this House, perhaps even by consensus. Such projects have known each other and worked alone for years in one Denmark. We have it going too fast, so I'm not saying what my colleague Boban said yesterday that we're local sheriffs, etc. It's about content, whether someone is effective, whether they're good or bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3310	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Drago Prgomet will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3311	Well, I'm glad to hear it from a man with experience. So I still think that Croatia has too many politicians, ultimately these figures show. Croatia has two times as many politicians per capita as Austria has. I think we just can't pay for it anymore. I still think we're a suspended country when we're talking about the number of units of local administration and self-government for those reasons I've listed. Financial and personnel sub-optimisation among other things to prepare good projects, to withdraw funds from the EU funds. Secondly, I agree with you that we need to make a good analysis. Therefore, local administration units should not be treated as businesses. It is their job to ensure quality life in terms of health insurance, education, municipal services at their level. If that one unit is not able, then I don't see any reason why that unit exists just to be called one municipality or maybe one city. And about the analysis, and we're hearing about these days that they're going to go into analysis, that they're going to go into projects, and that kind of analysis exists. One such analysis that speaks very clearly of the required number and thus speaks of almost 60 to 70% reduction in the number of units of local administration and self-government made by our Minister of Administration Mrs Jurlin and her Economic Institute. Such an analysis was done by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Last year she had a very noticeable rally. Almost identical results are these analyses and identical messages have been sent. Such analyses were carried out by the Department of Administrative Sciences and the Department of Public Administration and Prof. Ivan Kopriæ. Therefore, it exists. It's just a matter of political will whether we implement it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3312	Thank you very much. We would now move to the next club of representatives, and this is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and Reformists and on behalf of the club will speak to the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3313	President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the representatives of the State Audit Office. I will, on behalf of the SDSS and Reformers Club, try to divide this debate into two topics. So, first I'm going to say something about the review finding, and the second I'm going to look back at this one phenomenon that my colleague Bulj has now initiated in his replica, and it's about the present time, and I'm afraid if I don't say this now, we're going to get into a situation waiting for the revision of that thing for what year this is going to be quite a transition or an outdated topic. I'm not getting out of the context of this. So, as for the review report as well as in the previous discussions, we consider previous reports that the revision has done its job professionally, quality, studioly and we think that this way those people from the State Audit Office are very successful in completing one of their two-week sessions here in the Croatian Assembly. They are through their analysis if we are going to deal with the analysis of what is written here very clearly downloaded certain taboo topics from the work of political parties that have always been the subject of certain semi-information in the media and even certain abuses by certain media. So this report clearly states how much the assets of individual political parties are, what are the revenues of political parties, which are sources of political party income, which is very important to know about the public. Finally, the part that points to the number of employees per party is also processed, which is very, very interesting. You processed 30 here, audited 30 political parties and six independent representatives in 2014. So you checked the delivery of annual financial reports and checked the publication of these financial reports through the media, which was a legal obligation. What is unconvinced is that some colleagues have already said, but what is worrying is that in 2014, we still have the phenomenon that you had to conclude in certain parties that they had no internal control established, that their annual programmes and financial reports were not adopted in accordance with the law, that they were not adopted within the prescribed deadline, that certain political parties had not drawn up their basic financial reports in a regulated manner, and even that certain data in these financial reports were not correct or true. This as well as the fact that we do not have, that certain political parties who have ambitions to participate in political life in a serious way in the Republic of Croatia do not have their ethical codes that were required under the law, that they do not even have registered membership fees. These are very serious remarks today in 2014 when the assumption that after 20 years of our parliamentaryism we should have an almost ideal system by which these political parties operate, and have repeated ambitions to deal with serious political work on the scene. Here you gave 14 unconditional opinions, 14 conditional and 2 unfavourable opinions. Just a conclusion, I am extremely glad that my party is in the category of unconditional opinions. We know how much this effort costs us, that with that infrastructure, with the human resources that we have, we follow all the legal obligations and we try to be within the framework of unconditional opinion. As far as the financial parameters that are always most interesting to the public are concerned, it is important to say here that the total revenues per your report in 2014 were held somewhere at the level of about 114 million kuna if I see here well. That's pretty big money. 54 million are from budgets based on parliamentary mandates, and 43 million from councilman's office in local self-government units. Of course, the question of the rationality of local self-government units can be opened here immediately, if we see that it is about the same, almost identical value of the mandate of parliamentary representatives and units, council members in local self-government units. But what I would have found is the fact that for party employees, the data is, therefore, saying that for party employees, the parties have singled out 26 million kunas, which is not a little money. The majority of 117 million spent mainly 14 parliamentary parties. For the public, that might be an interesting piece of information. Most spent by HDZ 43 million, SDP 33, HNS 10 million kuna. In late 2014, political parties hired 221 people. My conclusion is multi-party, that is, this form of parliamentaryism costs and people must be aware that it costs approximately 114, 115 million kuna a year. And that's it. What I would say here in this second part of what I thought was important to know, is the way that my colleague Bulj warned about, I said at first, is the fact that this year at the 8th meeting we made a temporary decision on the financing of parliamentary mandates. I have this decision here. It has, of course, been made on the basis of the law here, but also on the basis of the decision of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure, and this decision has allocated these funds on a certain basis. My party received on the basis of two MPs a certain amount of funding, and the third representative of the party's counterpart took with him certain funds as an independent representative. Why am I saying that? Because this decision in this way would have been correct if it had been passed under laws that were in force until the 2013 amendment. It would be completely valid, or legal. Those who have made such a decision have forgotten or overlooked that in 2013, we have changed two key articles. This is Article 4 and Article 7 of that law, which are directly defined by different rules on the allocation of those funds. So it was said here too, and I will repeat the stand-alone democratic Serbian party has had its three candidates in the 12 elections for the Parliament. All party infrastructure, all money, all potential political and these mandates were won, all three mandates were won in the same way from the party capacities of the Independent Democratic Serb Party. And it is logical, then, that the funds resulting from those mandates belong to that party. At the end of the election promotion fund, the party won at the overall level as if it had adopted, that in its composition, there are three parliamentary deputies in its club. And then there's a board meeting that says different and says different and says that... the cost of funding under two mandates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's the matter? Which I'd like to draw attention to. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in 2013, we amended Article 14 which, that is, is the basic basis in the financing of independent political parties, is set out in Article 4(1). A law that says: "Right to regular annual funding from the state budget has political parties that have representatives in the Croatian Parliament and independent representatives who have been elected from independent lists.". Only from independent lists. And previously, what we have changed is the vote in a way, the right to regular annual funding from the state budget has political parties that have representatives in the Croatian Parliament, independent representatives who have been elected from independent lists and representatives of national minorities. Those three last words, representatives of national minorities were deleted by this amendment to the law. The intensities of what my colleague Bulj was talking about were automatically achieved and what we talked about in the 2013 debate when we changed the law to prevent the defection within the parties. So the party that has run for candidates who have entered the Parliament has the right to finance on the basis of these mandates. And any other defector that happens later comes under the influence of amending Article 4 of this Act. It also amended Article 7 of the sentence: "The funds for the regular annual financing of representatives of national minorities run by the political party are available at the political party's central account.". The provision of Article 7 is explicit, it should not be particularly philosophically interpreted only as it was addressed and as the legislator planned when formulating it. And what's going on? It comes then to the Constitutional and Legal Experts Committee, and to political volunteerism, by revote they say it will not be so, but we will deploy the funds as we raise, we decide most of the votes. In the first case, the majority of the votes are decided at the first session that the colleague who left the party has the right to compensation as an independent representative, in the second case, in our complaint, vote unsettled 5:5. And where we are, here we are. The situation continues to apply that the funds go to a colleague who left the party after the election. I'm asking the question, I was taught elementary things in college that a later law derivated the previous law. And the other thing, that decisions are under the law, like normative acts. Therefore, neither decision nor decision of the Constitutional Committee or the Rules of Procedure can derivate the application of the norms laid down in the positive regulations. I'm asking you a question about how we're going to deal with this legal situation. I'm warning the review that this case will be met next year. I'm afraid when you find out what I just said that a major violation of the material regulations in the decision-making committee was done, that it would be a late matter for us and that the funds would already be used in an illegal manner. Thank you. So I don't think this is what I jumped out of the topic because it's about financing political parties. Generally, we'll support the review report as a club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3314	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to the next club. It's the Most Representatives' Club. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST will also be spoken by the distinguished representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3315	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the State Audit Office. Let me also state the views of MOST Representatives' Club on reports on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of the local and regional self-government units, which we will positively see in the event of tomorrow's vote. So the findings show quite a bit that significant progress in the transparency of political parties' business is particularly the parliamentary ones. The review of political parties contributed to the regulation and compliance with legal regulations and acts relating to the financial operations of political parties. There is a problem with a significant number of parties that have not submitted financial reports, it is a wave of small political parties that are not active but are still in the register of political parties. The audit found that the political parties did not establish an internal control system or the control system was not effective. Annual work programmes and financial plans have not been adopted or adopted by the competent authorities of political parties. Financial reports are not drawn up in a prescribed manner and do not correspond to the situation in the main books. No claims and obligations are recorded in the existing prescribed manner, without credible documentation, no claim records are kept and the availability of the claim is not monitored or the measures taken to collect the claim are taken. Also, no travel orders or official travel reports have been issued for official travel. It is also necessary to highlight the problem of councilors in municipal and city councils working without compensation or with extremely small fees which are also fined by monetary amounts and up to 60,000 kunas because of the lack of support for the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion. The Office also recommended and ordered an effective internal control system. He instructed the parties to draw up annual financial plans and programmes in order to make their business more efficient in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. Also, as regards the handling of the findings of the State Audit Office, it was found that 112 findings and 59.2% of the warrants and recommendations were carried out, 13 or 6.9% were carried out and 64 orders or 33% of the recommendations were not followed, and political parties were still obliged to comply with the given tasks and recommendations of the office. As regards the MOST of Independent Lists, MOST proposes to revise the number of political parties in such a way as to delete from the register political parties those parties who did not hold their regular annual assembly within the envisaged legal and statute period. Such an audit may be carried out without legal amendments to the application of point 2 of Article 23(2). The law on political parties, which states, states that if it is established that more than twice the time has passed since the time laid down in the statute for holding a meeting of the highest governing body of the party, and that the session has not been held that the Ministry of Administration may adopt a decision to delete such political party from the register of associations. We will encourage such an initiative to the administration's competent ministry for all those political parties that do not act in accordance with their statutes and regulations. As regards political parties and their revenues in 2014 covered by the audit, revenues amounted to just over 114 million kuna and expenditures amounted to slightly more than 117 million kuna. In the main, these items referred to parliamentary parties, most of which was the income of the SDP, almost 40 million and the HDZ almost 33 million. In the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, we believe that too much of the money from the state budget is allocated to the action of political parties, and certainly in our future action we will argue that these amounts to a significant reduction and that they relate only to the necessary needs of political parties. The work of political parties should otherwise be based on the human and intellectual capacities of their members. As far as Mr. Prgomet's initiative is concerned, I will now take the opportunity to tell him that we are certainly in favour of your proposal and that we will consider it and together with you decide where these funds that have been achieved from your political action on the Most list will be spent on your electoral unit. As for local budgets, so the budgets of municipalities, cities and counties, the parties received a total of 42 million kuna. Of course, the largest parliamentary parties of HDZ and SDP have come in most. I would like to point out on this occasion another problem which is not visible at first sight, but cases such as FIMI MEDIA have shown the link between party financing and public procurement. According to an analysis by the Association of Partnership for Social Development, which used the official reports of the parties and the Integrated Observers database, it has been found that in the period from 1.01.2012 until today, SDP donors have achieved a total of 130 public procurement contracts totalling EUR 156 million. 21 of the 86 companies that emerged as SDP donors participated in the public procurement. That means somewhere around 25% of all SDP donors during the observed period. In the period from 1.01.2012 until today, HNS donors achieved a total of 122 public procurement contracts totalling 271 million kuna. The public procurement included 16 of the 32 companies that are HNS donors in 50% of all donors who have donated campaigns since 2012. In the period from 1.01.2012 until today HDZ donors achieved a total of 196 public procurement contracts totalling 774 million and 25 of the 58 HDZ companies or 43.1% of all donors participated in public procurement. So perhaps this representative body of citizens should also consider eliminating the possibility of donation of political parties as is the case in some German federal states in order to remove at all the doubts that donors and public procurement procedures that are subsequently taking place are connecting. Here, in conclusion, MOST advocates the transparent and rational spending of funds from the state budget, the production of donor databases related to the legal person base that got jobs in public procurement tenders. Here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3316	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable Representative Radiir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3317	As for parties, let's not waste time and energy, parties are a product on the democratic political market. So it can't be too many parties, it can be 5 million, 500 grand, it doesn't matter how many there are. Those who have something to offer, who the citizens recognize will buy them. Like there can't be too many kinds of apples on the market, I think, or anything else. So it's a groundless debate. Of course everyone scratches where it it itches and it's completely clear. Some who have some monopolies or make up that they should have some monopolies in some interesting positions and places that are not as uninteresting as the retirement population is feeling bad here when some other people who are dealing with politics want to stress that there is a serious interest in their political option, because it can't be exclusive, it's not exclusive to the right, it's not the left, it's not the center, it's simply one serious topic. Retired population is a serious topic that cannot be reduced to an interesting ghetto. It is therefore normal for some parties, for example, to create and form from their own committees or political groups something that has the party label. It's just fine if the voters support it. Of course it's time in one state, and we're going to slowly become that it's all set up, that things are being followed, that's already been said here, that there are some reports, that there are no abuses, there's nothing to be sanctioned, there's nothing to say about it. As for the topics that have been opened here as a whole, whether or not it is circumstantial, whether it makes sense or not, it is certain that this should be succumbed to by public debate. A mature society for public debate, what will be decided we will see, in this replica there is no point in talking about it but for the past 10 years it has been very seriously analyzed at scientific level, other experiences have also been studied in particular Denmark but all others. And here is the flatline to say what France is or not French, yes, France is but on a volunteer base. Yes, thousands are but volunteers, etc. So, the public debate is certainly something that needs to be implemented, because it is too serious to be realised without public debate, but scientific papers and serious analysis already exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3318	Thank you very much. Here will be answered by the esteemed representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3319	I actually didn't take this presentation as a replica, but rather as a supplement to this debate. Here's what I've been discussing in one part and it's also about what you said, it's a large number of smaller parties that exist on the political scene but don't act in accordance with the statutes and laws. And I think that certainly all those who act in such a way and there are assumptions that they should be deleted by the register of political parties should at least begin to act and delete them. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3320	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative, Nada Turina-Djuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3321	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Chief State Auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the work of the political parties made by the state audit is, in any case, to welcome zap as one very professional, very comprehensive and something from which much can be learned and read. I was about four years ago for the first time talking about a report like this that was here in the Parliament, and I think I can proudly say that we've made some progress, that we're still working at that level, especially at this level as far as finances are concerned. I remember four years ago there was a very current topic about the FIMI-MEDIA affair, the audit reports were for some major conditionality, large political parties extremely bad. But we see in this report that these things have improved quite significantly in these four years. Well, it may be particularly important to point out that large, conditionally said, major political parties but they are, mostly, among these, a group of those who receive the unconditional opinion of the revision. That it is a serious matter, that politics is a serious business, is also seen in these reports. And I think we should stress that we have a problem if we're going to. 170 political parties operating in political space in Croatia are de facto only 15 who, according to this report, can be classified among such parties, i.e. serious parties who take politics seriously and one part of that policy is, of course, how those within themselves function. And so is the part about how they function financially because they send a message to their voters, how they should function. So if they function in a way that they can gain unconditional opinion of their financial operations, then the assumption is that they could also be affected by the functioning of the state or by taking responsibility for a serious business such as state-leading. In addition to being serious about this, serious policy business, the amount of money discussed today is also serious. So not all political parties operating in Croatia but covering one part are covered here, I would say a significant part of, above all, the larger political parties that deal with 114 million kunas of income, and what is particularly important to highlight is mainly or in most of the revenue they receive from the state budget, i.e. from the local budget, so it is extremely important that we insist on it as a policy to spend taxpayers' money transparently. What I find visible in this report is for us at the HNS who are proud that here for a whole number of years since the revision comes to our party we get unconditional opinion and that we take this job seriously as we take politics seriously. However, what can be noted is that these conditionally said smaller parties, and there are many, and not all of them are not covered by these audits, have an obvious problem in sub-optimation and organisational and staff, of course and financial, in order to function in quality. So it happens that most of these parties get, from year to year, these smaller parties get unconditional opinions, and there's one whole series of these parties that are probably never covered by this one review, or audit in those small parties. And the question arises at all after a whole series of years where a whole series of irregularities have been observed, starting with being unable to give a quality picture of financial reports, not even keeping congregations regular, reporting, not having supervisory committees, unable to make annual work plans. So these are all the things they say about such parties being questionable first whether they exist, and secondly whether it makes any sense that they're standing somewhere on paper, they might have two or three councilmen in the whole country, and in reality they're dealing with minimal means. You need to see what you do in that space to either force them to get into this financial business quality or to sort it out in some other way regarding their financial business. What I am particularly pleased with in this report is that the revision has been addressed and the acts adopted by the parties and their internal organisational structure and where it has been reported that one part of the parties has not yet made through their decisions or through their acts any document on how it would work, how membership within the party must function, or what is the responsibility of membership to the party and to the community. There is, of course, a recommendation to adopt ethical codes, but it is also a recommendation to bring in some other acts that could be subject to a political code, a code of politicians acting within the party. And I think that there's both a beginning and an end, that we need to raise the level and that we need to raise standards of policy behaviour within the parties, their organisational structure and decision-making should be monitored. If it's quality, then the assumption is that everything else that's actually a technical job, the job of party personnel, their personnel teaming, is going to work well, too. And I think that in that part of the revisions in some future period, maybe more needs to be devoted, meaning whether all parties' acts are respected, whether they are ethical code or whatever we call them, means some rules on the conduct of membership whether they are respected, whether reports are submitted in due time, whether the supervisory committees are functioning. So, the parties within themselves must be self-control and those that direct themselves to do this job in a quality way so that they can be credible in front of their voters and then, of course, to make their own decisions to the voters. It is also visible that there are some political parties that have been created relatively recently, which have set themselves very, very high goals with these internal acts, and that is, on several occasions, colleagues from some such parties that are relatively short on the political stage very high goals, so they have failed, very high standards in the functioning of an internal party that they have failed to implement. So let's say there was one party that introduced the supervisory forum as one of the bodies that in some way audited all decisions and finances and everything else within that party, and it didn't actually meet, nor did it report, nor was the party able to publicly publish its report as required by the law. So we ourselves, as political parties, are raising our internal acts, that is, setting certain criteria in which we will work, and the revision can be seen from the revision of all political parties has actually gone by, going to control our work within the parties, among other things, and by how we ourselves set standards for our decisions, and it is evident that some have very ambitiously set high standards. However, politics is also one particular activity where, like any other, an activity that has its specific features. So, it's not always just, it's not always possible just in the way we say we'll be the best, so we'll be the best. We need to show and prove that we are the best and that we can do quality and according to what we planned and what we plotted. I say I would commend not once more not the revision but those political parties that have been here for several years in a row have received the unconditional opinion of the review, which adheres to that standard. It is interesting that there are a dozen political parties that stand firm and their stability with a conditional opinion for several years, that obviously they do not react and have not responded to the recommendations made by the State Audit. I don't think any of these recommendations that the State Audit has made are too complicated to correct. It certainly comes to the question of what to do when a particular entity is audited or the institution being subjected to a persistent and persistent opinion and always has the same observations on its work. It's something that's kind of supposed to end anyway. Okay, there's that joke that's your first time, this is your second time, and this is your third time, which is when the third time someone warns you that you haven't filed a financial report properly? When he tells you that you did not publish that report on websites, etc., etc.? So these are some things that are at all questionable doesn't mean that such a political entity, a political party in this case, can or may not function without a certain penalty or possibly even some possibility legally that such institutions, such entities no longer exist. Here, with this commendation, some have taken seriously the recommendations of the revision back a few years, and those who persist in holding on to the same position, so they have conditional opinions, I hope that even our discussions, however boring they are, or considered irrelevant, contribute to the fact that year after year, these reports of subjects being monitored or supervised by entities that are being made better and better. The Croatian People's Party will support this report, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3322	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar will now perform on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3323	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chief State Auditor. To begin with, the HDZ Club will support the State Audit Office's report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and members of local self-government units for 2014. Partly because of the reasons that my predecessors have already pointed out in their speeches, partly because we hold that this job, as in previous years, has been done seriously, systematically, respecting legislation that we can say has already been brought to a very high degree of precision, perhaps even a little burdensome for the entities that are obliged to comply with these regulations. But surely we have passed the legislative framework for the financing of political parties and other entities in a way that can certainly be satisfactory and that can transparently show how funds are used in the work of political parties. What I wanted to especially highlight in front of our club is the fact that you can see in the report that the review was carried out over eight months. When you see all the obligations of the subjects and all the control possibilities, then it is clear that this is an extremely long procedure. That brings us to what might be the greatest burden of all this work. According to a report in Croatia at the time it was carried out, 171 political parties were registered in Croatia. We often take high standards for control, we take standards that I would even dare to say do not have all the EU countries so elaborated. At the same time, all those who have adopted high standard controls do not have a problem with this number of entities they have to control annually. I won't even talk about 900 council members who are also here, or members of representative bodies, independent representatives. I think that Croatian specificism is the fact that we have a 171 political party, or 155 which are covered by the need for reporting and control in that current year, in this case 2014. Unfortunately, in 2015 it will not be different. It's probably the same number of subjects or even bigger. And there's actually a question ahead of us whether we really need 170 political parties, are they really parties that act in political life? You will see from these footnotes in this report that a number of them have been deleted from the register because they have ceased to exist legal assumptions that these parties may at all act. And they're simply too often registered, too often established, and then we see from everything else that their actions are questionable. And that's why I started talking about their number because one of the things in the introduction of the State Audit Office is also a paragraph that talks about orders and recommendations that the State Audit Office gives to the entities that it controls. And this is, among other things, an effective internal control system, so a whole structure and organisation within each of the political parties that should guarantee quality reporting and legitimate business of these political parties. When we take, on the other hand, the number of registered political parties and their actions, it is often disproportionate to the desire for political registration from the real possibility that these parties act in accordance with the regulations because they are very demanding of these parties. I believe that many who have been in the establishment of these parties did not even know what would be the subject of the review and what all the obligations of political parties in everyday life should be fulfilled in order to act legally. Therefore, I particularly think it is worth the recommendation that the office has ordered the performance of the list of assets and liabilities, the recording of business events and the keeping of business books as well as the delivery of financial reports in accordance with the regulations of all parties I dare to think of. A good part of them does not have a complex structure and professional service at all, professionals who can meet the legal requirements for their reporting. So we said that 171 political parties acted at a time when this report was submitted and that 155 parties were in some way subject to possible control. In addition to all those persons who are also obliged to submit reports, financial reports on their work. The revenues from the budget of local units belonging to political parties amounted to €42 million, which means that if you want the burden of local budgets for the action of those political parties who have won a certain number of mandates in their representative bodies, it is certainly also on the number of registered political parties carrying a single burden with what the financing of parliamentary parties is a question of how proportionate these costs are to the political action or way of working of the parties that they have won. In other words, there are a lot of expensive ways of political action, especially in a country that has 170 political parties that very often appear in all kinds of our choices, and that is what is disproportionate to the obligations imposed on them by law, counting that all these entities are sufficiently and responsible and qualified to meet all these legal requirements. Therefore, we think that the State Audit Office would also have a much easier job, but perhaps even more quality, although I say this report is very good for some depth controls if the number of entities that must be covered by their controls would not last much less, there would be no revision of 8 months for all of these entities to be covered by the revision. And probably then in some things, perhaps with time and office proposals and legislative regulations might be, I dare say at least clearer because it is quite complicated, it imposes great obligations on all entities in the precise management of their financial commitments documentation. Of course, I mean not only political parties but also members of representative bodies, independent parliamentary representatives and all those who are obliged to submit reports. To conclude from what I believe is also the assessment of the State Office for Auditing that the shortcomings, anomalies, objections that the State Audit Office can make to supervised entities are relatively small compared to what some majority of supervised entities have done in quality and in accordance with the law. I say our laws seem to be very precise, very detailed, perhaps even imposing too much on the subjects, but in any case we believe that this way of control and work is what will allow our public to gain more confidence in action, at least in this financial part of all supervised entities. Like I said, the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3324	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Mlakar, here, speaking on behalf of the club, you mentioned several possibilities that this work of our state audit regarding the control of the business of political parties might be even more effective. So you mentioned also a very large number of political parties in the Republic of Croatia, and also an increase in the number of independent candidates in individual elections. Perhaps it would really be a solution to consider after a reasoned and long-term debate how and in what way to allow political parties not to be founded, just so to say, just before certain elections or unspecified elections, more than there is a tendency to form independent candidates. But you mentioned a very interesting idea presented by the audit, which refers to internal control. You well know that there are in a number of political parties honorable courts and that it should perhaps be a guide for political parties to legally commit their honorary courts to and in this sense so that they can effectively exercise internal control especially in those large parties that have branched municipal, urban and county organisations and where there is a possibility that some financial failures can occur beyond the knowledge of the centre, which may not be easy to determine at first sight.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3326	Thank you very much. The next answer will be given by the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar. Oh, no? No, I don't. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3327	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague Mlakar. In your speech, you have problemed in a certain way the amount from the budget of the units of local self-government, and according to the report itself, about 42 million kuna is provided in local budgets for the financing of political parties according to the participation of individual council members of the respective political party in a particular city and municipal council or county assembly. You know very well that in Europe there are two models of financing political parties. One is, for example, in Great Britain, where about 80% of the funds for the functioning of political parties come from donations from natural and legal persons, and on the other hand, a very large majority of EU Member States are similar to those in Croatia where more than 70% of the funds for the functioning of political parties and also political campaigns come from revenues from national and local budgets and on the other hand from membership fees collected by individual political parties. When an analysis has been carried out in due time, most Croatian citizens are prone to this way of funding, where transparency and then the independence of political parties versus natural and legal persons who participate in the donation of political and individual parties wherever they are more pronounced, so in this sense I agree with the fact that as much as this political system and the work of political parties in Croatia is expensive, and I see it from the amount to which the political parties in the Croatian Parliament withdraws from the state budget, and it is expensive for local self-government units. The same seems to me to me on the other hand that it is more transparent in a way where it can be very visible and simply determine how the political party works through the way in which the donor income is collected when in a certain way it can also be talked about the independence of political parties in relation to this kind of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3328	This replica will be answered by an esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3329	Well, I answered, I'm still thinking about the first one, I think I've lost my time. Thank you very much. Comrade Bacic, you said that I had trouble financing political parties by local self-government units. No, I just wanted to point out that this is also an additional cost to units of local self-government that we often forget when we impose new and new obligations on them, and that these obligations are not followed by a stable financial force so that these units can meet their obligations. However, it is only as much as our funding system holds that good and law is very precise even I have said to many EU countries, it is only the top of some dream that we would be able to talk about when we talk about the financing of political parties especially at local level. Because unfortunately, we are witnessing that at the local level you can use the executive power not only through the successes of ruling in local units, but also the assets of that unit to use for your financial promotion, to promote your political options and not to enter such funding into the control of the State Audit. And then, in fact, the issue of funding at the local level is a problem we haven't talked about yet, but I believe that the funds are invested in certain campaigns at local level much higher than those shown only by budgets given the corresponding number of councilors. Political options are financed unfortunately on the burden of these units at a much higher amount than what the report shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3330	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to individual debates and the first one is the distinguished representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3331	Thank you, Mr. President. I guess that's how it turned out in order in the agenda to discuss today's reports by two independent institutions, the application of two laws that were very important during the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. One is the Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion, this is the report, and beyond that is the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. In view of the way and the time when these laws have been passed and the great attention that the European Commission and other bodies dealing with the control of these things that the laws have been talking about when they were being adopted and changed, I must agree with Mr. Mlakar that these laws are much more precise, better, and in some cases a little more absurdly prescribed many things that, let's say in other laws, are not so detailed and precise. It was so tight that one provision of the law, this law, had to be abolished by the Constitutional Court because the sanctions for political parties were too great. I believe there are other provisions that need to be reconsidered. The Government of the Republic of Croatia in the previous term referred to the parliamentary procedure amendments to the Law on financing, or the new Law on the financing of political parties and election promotions, and added with this referendum, which passed the first reading in this House but could not be adopted or the final proposal came on the agenda because of the disbanding of the Parliament. Since we were then working at the Ministry of Administration together with colleagues from the State Audit on some of the provisions of this law, I hope that it will continue to work on this and that in a similar form it will be referred to the parliamentary procedure very quickly to fix certain things. I must say that I am one of those who every time I have the opportunity to point out that I advocate as much funding as possible from the political parties in the budget as possible than from the donations of individuals just so that the political process and the political parties would be as much dependent on them and such individuals who, apart from ideals in the financing of political activities, see some interest as well as one that may be different from the general. So whenever it is debated whether a lot of political parties are allocated from the budget, I am not in favour of the fact that the populist is said to stand out a lot and that it should be completely abolished. I think that such a system is good, where it may be necessary to correct the total amount of funds allocated to political parties in the budget not on the basis of expenditure, but on the basis of revenue, a certain percentage. So an increase in expenditure does not also mean an increase in expenditure for political parties. The fact is that misdemeanor courts have often and strictly punished independent councilors for something that may have been subdued under an act of exaggeration, which is that people who may not have received a kuna from the local self-government unit ended up in the Criminal Court and received fines in tens or tens of thousands of kunas although none of the kunas in the budget had received. Perhaps there should therefore be reconsidered to sanction those provisions, for those violations to be reduced. I would also like to point out that we still have a lot, although less and less, units of local self-government that do not pay political parties budget funds, or do so in ways that are not exactly the most transparent, i.e. by beating or compensation in some other way. It seems to me, or I haven't seen, that according to the provisions, it's because it's not being paid to political parties in the budget that there have been mistrials against the mayor and their head of finance. And this is also one of the most common means of political pressure on the opposition at local levels. Because, as Mr. Mlakar said, by ruling to use the resources of the local self-government unit, it is not so much under the increase of both the media and the State Audition and the State Election Commission which also plays a significant role in controlling this law, and on the other hand, by demining funds from the budget for councilors for political parties marginalising or disabling the opposition in political work. This should also correct and prescribe the minimum amount that units of local self-government are obliged to pay to political parties per councilman. What was introduced in political practice in 2004, and until then it wasn't, that's what I always problem when I can, finance the political activities of individuals with budget funds. So, I believe that, and this also in the Constitution, it says that political parties are a special value, not individuals dealing with politics, that they should be banned from funding individuals dealing with budget policy or that funding from the budget would be limited to political parties and not to independent individual council members. Namely, some of the lists that pass in the local elections with ten council members is not treated as a political group of ten councilmen but as 10 individuals acting independently on each other. In addition to the fact that individual control is engulfing the State Audit and I actually think that it is turning the priority of the audit to finance those big ones, to control these big ones at the end it turns out that the audit has to deal with several hundred individuals who, in one way or another, have been financed for their political activity from the budget. It's another political campaign. So in the election campaign, one who gets votes gets compensation for the costs of political activity as well as the political party, but as far as regular financing of political activities is concerned, I think it should be abolished. Also, I think it would be good if, preferably from the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, a joint proposal was made to amend the Law on Political Parties and to amend the Law on the financing of political activity and election promotion in order to bring these problems to an yet higher level. Although this level is probably among the best and best regulated in Europe. Commendations and congratulations to the State Audit on this report and to the political parties can also be praised in some ways because each year they are making more progress in their funding, i.e. in business according to this law and other laws governing this matter because it is the foundation of both a good and a quality political system. Of course, the internal structure of political parties as Mr Mesic spoke is arranged in different ways by their statutes and by the control of funding. I know the SDP has a business board. I don't know how it works in other parties now. And I believe that public release of the report, public publication of donors, these strict rules of use of state resources and units of local self-government and other things that will be further under the attention of the public of state audit and the State Election Commission which could be more involved in this issue. Because I got the impression that they actually preferred to pass on what they were responsible for to other institutions or to DUR, to either the state's attorney's office or to someone else and did not act sufficiently on educational and preventive work with political parties. I'll support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3332	Thank you very much. Perhaps before I give my word to those who have responded to the replica to actually thank my colleague Bauku for drawing everyone's attention to one very important thing, which is that Parliament is actually a legislative body and that committees can certainly propose laws. In fact, we should do a lot more what it is so far, because somehow you keep getting the impression and it's historically so that the Parliament is waiting for the government to send the laws. That's how it was in recent times, that's how it is today, and then it's said no laws are sent. But we're also a legislative body, and in fact we should actually, not only be able to but also have to propose laws. Well, here's a good call in that sense. And now to the replicas, first came the distinguished representative Ivan Kovačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3333	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, I'd just like to refer to the exposure, so I agree with Mr. Bauk that the transparency of the party is more financed from the budget than from donations. However, I think it might be possible to adjust the amount financed from the budget a little bit. Maybe it's a little too much for $350,000 per male lawyer and 390 per female. Although we do know that it is obtained by the number of mandates already won. As for reducing the funding of political parties at local level, I do not think he would agree that the work of the opposition has been disabled in this way. Because I think that, and if the opposition is reduced, the position is reduced. Yeah, for example. I have a situation with us in Omis so I have the same situation as all opposition parties I get just 1 kuna per councilman. But I would also disagree that the position can use urban budgets, in fact the budgets of local self-government for its funding if it uses them and there are examples that were used. Then there's the state review to reveal these things and, of course, the judiciary to sanction them. The problem is, the state audit finds out and the judiciary doesn't sanction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3334	Thank you. Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3335	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to use a certain part of the time to agree with you because actually your reaction to my speech was a kind of replica and consent. I would like to remind you that in the previous meeting, the Committee on the Constitution was the Proposer and Amendment of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament and the Law on Referendum. So, while these were laws that were from my portfolio, because I felt that such laws, as a minister at the time, should be tried to propose such laws as to the basis of the political system with a kind of consensus so that they last longer rather than any change, these rules of play that are common to large and small parties, position and opposition. As for Mr. Kovačić, well, I think that you in Omis might have a little too much cut for political parties, you could have done a little more for councilmen, but good. So I agree that the position is being reduced, but I have actually agreed with Mr. Mlakar, who pointed out that it is possible to use the resources of local self-government units in a real or hidden campaign and most often it is less visible and less subject to media and control and control of the review and control of the DIP than when it happens, when it happens at a state level where it is nevertheless under greater public control. So we have a case, and I don't think it's even for reviewing or for the judiciary, but for the Committee of Conflict of Interests who even has the possibility of punishing and minor violations of these offenders. This is often, therefore, a violation of the principle of action as a warning or, say, we have several open proceedings against the mayor and the mayor but perhaps for the next point, for the abuse of special rights which has a duty. It's not that classic criminal abuse. So what you're saying is maybe even more for the Committee of Conflict of Interest so let them report them to their political rivals if they use it so they shouldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3336	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bauk, purely perhaps because of correctness, you must not pollomise with the president and at least using the Kovacic Institute of replicas. But that's not why I came forward, but because of the essence you were talking about when you wanted the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to propose to write laws instead of those who should do so. And then, in a way, she gave me a special echo of your sentence, you disagree with the fact that independent representatives from the budget of local self-government units are being financed. You don't think that's right. You've had a few more comments, so I wanted to ask you instead of the Constitution Committee why you didn't change it when you ran the Department of Administration for four years, which is exactly the regulation that's in the jurisdiction of that ministry you were working on. So instead of discussing today the responsibility of the Constitutional Committee as an executive government, you had opportunities, times and places to resolve it properly, suggest that the Government come before the Parliament with amendments and take the funds to independent representatives in the way you have proposed it here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3338	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3339	Thank you. The first part of your presentation of a colleague, Mlakar, is contradictory. First, you warned me that there was something I could not respond to in the Rules of Procedure to the President, and then you said that the committee could not be a proposing, although according to the Rules of Procedure, he is also a proponent for commending the President of the Parliament here and it is not an initiative, but rather a focus on legislative opportunities and proposing parliamentary bodies. As for what you asked me, I must say that after the local elections in 2013 in one of the versions of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions, a referendum that regulates this matter, that is exactly what it wrote. So I did then in the first reading, i.e. in a version that was also in the public debate suggested it as an alternative. But I was aware of the political reality, and I made sure that this proposal would not pass into the Parliament, so it hasn't changed. And secondly, there are certain questions about the constitutionality of such a solution that are legitimate queries. However, I deeply believe that this is constitutional, but it is not good to expose myself from that position to question the constitutionality of that solution whether or not to. Therefore, my initiative and my political commitment to abolish the funding of individuals from the state budget and the budget of units of local self-government, and based on the provision of the Constitution that political parties are the foundation of multilateral parliamentary democracy or that, I do not know exactly whether I quoted it from one side of the doubt, from the constitutional and legal position, but therefore there is the Constitutional Court to resolve these dilemmas, which would certainly be in a broad public debate initiated by the committee or by all political parties any space to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3340	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bauk is completely saying I'm going to slightly incorrectly say quoting my replica. I never said that the board couldn't be the legislator or this committee we talked about. I just asked him why he did not use the natural right of every government to, while running a resort in whose jurisdiction this law proposed and instead did not transfer responsibility to the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. That was the essence of my replica, and if he thinks I said something wrong, he'll consult a phonogram and see what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3342	Thank you very much. I'm afraid it wasn't exactly a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but there it is. We have another replica of the exhibition, which is the replica of the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3343	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear colleague Bauk. You pointed out that the legislator has imposed too many criminal penalties, so the Constitutional Court has abolished that provision. I think other provisions should be further considered, in particular, on one example, that within that part of the political party, i.e. the president of the political party and the party itself, are responsible if the candidate in the local election for the Commissioner is late to submit a report on the financial spending of the election campaign for two days and the punishment is to the party and the president, 8000 kn, which he has to pay, and you do not have the possibility to regress from the person who missed it. In my opinion and in our view, in Croatia, the peasant party is also understated by the law in the section that you mentioned yourself, and I agree with you that the most transparent financing of political parties from local regional and state budgets and that the minimums and maximums should be determined there. Because in this situation, the municipal councils, almost every year when budgeting, change decisions on the level of financing of political parties, do not deliver these decisions to political parties. We've been looking for them multiple times, and in the end, according to the review, we're guilty, we don't have complete documentation, and we don't have the mechanisms to get to that data, the decisions of the municipal and city councils. I also think of me from the HSS, and I personally want to commend first of all here the President of the Office of State Audit, because in these reports on the review of political parties you have findings from previous periods that have been errors in the conduct of accounts of political parties and which of these recommendations has been fulfilled. Well, here I come from the HSS who got a conditional opinion and I apologize to all our members and members for that and my public opinion. But here I would also like to commend our accounting which has since 7 objections accepted and changed and corrected these shortcomings. There are, of course, three more, four more that we will correct in the next period, but one of the details that should also be regulated by law and which I don't think has produced good effects on the ground, which is that renting space to political parties is considered a donation and that this is not the basis for it. You have a situation that most branches have given up renting space from municipalities and cities and you have a situation that municipalities and cities now have to pay directors, fixed costs for those locals. Political parties have no place to gather and work their own program. In a certain way we did damage to local self-government units because they had
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3344	Thank you, thank you. We're way out of time. The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3345	Thank you. Dear fellow MP, I agree with both of the things you said, however, that was also in the bill of law that was in the first reading. I think it's a certain amount of at least 1000 kuna per councilman per year for local self-government units. Although that solution was also criticised, I don't know if I know by the president of your party who was then a representative but by the opposition at the time is absolutely certain that it imposes too much on the municipalities. And then I said to the 7-alarm community if there are no 7,000 kunas for political parties, then there shouldn't be any municipalities. So then they told me again, but good. As regards leases and large fines, I agree and the proposal also included a reduction and a range of infringements and the amount of offences that individual individuals or legal persons should pay. Of course, this has once again been subject to criticism, they reduce their own obligations and reduce penalties and always the same. So this topic is very often subject to populist treatment so that what is also rationally correct when something tries to reduce then you get criticism here you are again making your life easier for yourself etc. As far as renting space at a local level is concerned, we have a balance between two things. One is that all political factors must be in an even position and therefore all political parties should have the right to rent. This is the simplest solution, which is that the municipal council makes one minimum amount by its decision but then has to apply it to all political parties. Now, whether political parties are going to use it for political purposes or someone is going to be smart so remember so it further commercializes it now is a matter of control again. Therefore, each of these things you have said has its positive effect and side effects, so you should always evaluate what is more important at some point.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3346	Thank you very much. Before we continue our individual debate, I'd like to inform you that we're going to make a small change in the order of the dots. Namely, the following will be as envisaged.The report on the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, but after that, probably even during the morning, and the follow-up to the 10th revision of the financing of sports halls so as not to torture Mr. State Auditor and his associates here to come back just once again for this point, to do all the audits. So then we'll finish all the audits and they'll finally be able to relax. Here, we'd now move on to a further individual debate and she's been approached by a distinguished representative of Blaženko Boban, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3347	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, for saying hello to my colleague and colleague. Yes, this item of the agenda and today's review report on political parties, individuals and others really need to be honest and show their findings, for example, from yesterday's two reports concerning companies or companies owned by local communities as well as public procurement in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. That's good. It's good to bounce, but it kind of here I mean a respected colleague of Hope Turin's said that politics is as much an activity as any other. I can't agree with that because politics isn't as much an activity as any other. Maybe she should be, but unfortunately she's not because she's under a much bigger increase in both the public and the media. Because if it weren't, then at least close or similar would have been the audit reports for yesterday's and all the ones we've been through so far. But the fact is that what the audit has done well, or the State Audit Office, has done well to show that perhaps the biggest shift has been made here in the last few years. But that's why I'm not going to say it completely here, but in a large part with Mr. Bauk's exposure to co-financing and financing of political parties because every attack on this segment of action is under the light of the particular public and the media because of so-called. I would say populism because someone points if funding or co-financing is attacked by any political party. Unfortunately, here we don't think and concentrate on saying so 10, 15, 20, 50 parties that have their own representatives in this body or any other regional, local body and no one thinks about those 85 parties that haven't even published their financial reports on the web pages. Why? Because I believe all of us 151 here from these 85 parties that are in that category won't even know 5 people who are there active in that membership in 85 parties. These parties are established and formed for single use. For this one-time use after the need for any election, any local, regional, national, they simply do not exist, they are being shut down. We don't know any members, we don't know the leader of any of that party. Eventually someone if they're his neighbor or possibly coming from his local community. Therefore, special attention and legislation in particular should be regulated if it is not for me to think of the country no. 1 in the European Union is safe, and the broader ones that we have such a spectrum of political parties. I know that maybe financial expenditure for them given their work and performance results is minor. But it's a mess and it's a mess in the public, it's a mess between us here, it's a mess of review, it's a problem and a mess at the end of the voters before any election. It is therefore particularly important to take into account that special legislation should try to regulate that parties that really act, work, even if it is on the least political unit of the local committee, O.K., agree that they should survive but parties that really serve once in 7, 15 days of the campaign and after that do not know either their space, nor their party leader, O.K., may be known formally because they have to register and apply but in the real world of policy action, at local and national level they do not exist. Here I would only mention one more problem that is indeed true, which is that of the new law, a new conditionality, a competition for renting space for political parties. Very often, local communities are obliged to call tenders for political parties, of course as well as for all other associations operating in the local community. But here, in practice, there's another thing going on. You have political parties that I spoke about before 85 and at the local level of the personification of that party is an individual, very often and economical prominent or influential from who knows which spheres. And then call a local competition community, that party appears in the competition, based on the competition he can and probably will because of the financial potential of that individual who is the personification party to gain space for any relevant party, unrelated to which, left, right, centre, anyone. To gain space and ultimately that space eventually that individual as a personification of a particular political party and mostly among those 85 there serve as an alternative office of his society. This should indeed be seen and seen as a special regulatory law for local communities how in some other way to assign really active political parties to space, i.e. to set tariffs, a price list for which these parties have to pay space, so I absolutely agree to avoid exactly this kind of thing. And now I'm going back to what I've been saying that those 85 or more of them who haven't even published financial reports on their websites, whose personification is one man, one party, what confusion they're causing within certain local communities based on this Competition Act. And if we were to regulate such relations legally, such parties that serve in one-time use, in the day that they are mostly some of the choices then we have regulated this competition problem and then I absolutely agree that based on the competitions of the relevant party that work in a particular local community or at national level they can have, so I would say a fair race in the competition, in the tendering documentation for the regulation of the area in which they want to work and act. Here's the only way to make an observation. But once again for the end, of course I will support the review report but here it is special to me, I know that it has its negativity, there are individuals, there are, so we would say and we would say here that individuals who are influential parliamentary representatives get a conditional opinion and in some way perceived them as the saviors of a particular area at a given time during the parliamentary elections in four years the entire space, an entire county and more counties. I really think that further regulation should be made by law so that these malversions, I will not say malfeasance but insubsistence happens and that the personification of one man, one party avoids it in this way. And indeed this audit report, where luck has it that so far been passed that the results of the audit were in those reports, mainly the two reports yesterday that are very important and particularly important for the local community, the one about the local community-owned trade. And the one about companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are also public procurement companies, that are approximately at least these audit reports here, I hope even better next year. But I really appreciate the review I'm going to support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3348	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Davor Penic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3349	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Boban, you said in your statement that the parties are founded for single use. You probably thought that at the local level of this party, which is founded or individuals who are forming political parties are trying to articulate their personal interests and the interests of the people they represent, they are opening political topics in that environment that no major political option opens. In order to voice their opinion, to penetrate the public, some political channels, establish parties for that part of the parliamentary elections or local elections to articulate their opinion in public. That's justifiable, it's political parliamentaryism for people to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3350	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3351	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, I will respect that replica of yours if you tell me of the 85 parties of a leader, because I would have to be recognizable. If something was working in your midst I know you won't be in another environment, but in your midst of these 85 lists if you know one leader here, then I will greatly respect your replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3352	Thank you. A prominent representative, Josip Boris, came forward for individual debates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3353	Thank you very much, Vice President. The results of the political party review show that political parties and politicians have largely arranged that part of their financial business, as well as concerns about their own assets, and it is much better than it was long ago. The audit was carried out for 2014 on 27.10.2015, meaning that we have quite a fresh picture of what is happening in part of the political parties, and it says 171 political parties, 16 parliamentary and 155 outside parliamentary parties operate in Croatia. When we compare it to other EU countries, I will only list some of them so we can see where we are compared to them. 34 parties are active in Germany, France 43, Slovenia 11, Italy 102, Austria 14. It means that we can say that at least in something we are the first best, there is the most of us and the Croats like to deal with politics, even as we have heard from colleagues for one-time use. But being president and such parties obviously brings something to someone. In 2015, only 16 new parties were founded in 2015. That's more than Slovenia and Austria have, say, and we started them in just a year. Incomes 114 million 820 000, expenditures 117 million 547. 18 of them is a surplus, and 12 of them a short of 11 million. There's a difference in surplus and shortfall somewhere 2 million kuna. Expressed 14 unconditional, 14 conditional and 2 unfavourable opinions. The most important part, meaning those holders and parliamentary parties and major parties in the Republic of Croatia are conditional and unconditional opinions, two unfavourable parties outside Parliament, so we can say that this is something that goes in the right direction. The political system in Croatia is being built for 25 years, it will certainly continue to be built on better and better-quality laws. But unfortunately, we have a deviation in the number of parties, and there is an indication of what needs to be done by the future minister of administration, but also of the current government. I hope that it will understand and that we will find a way to introduce a different way and set up and operate parties. The past 4 years have been very dynamic in the political life of Croatia, because they have collapsed, and the other few have raised some democratic procedures and reached democratic standards in the previous 21 years in a strange relationship between the last government and the public, especially according to the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions has been amended twice in the past term. One time by amending the law in 2013 and once by decision of the Constitutional Court in 2014. In 2015, we had a bill in the first reading that unfortunately did not come to an end with a slightly different name. These two laws we're talking about, i.e. on the application of these findings and the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, but also the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we consider it an important anti-corruption tool, and these parties have indeed made the steps. However, let us go back a little bit to what happened here and what preceded the amendments to the 2013 and 2014 laws in the Constitutional Court's decision. In 2012, the ruling party was late to submit a report and threatened to suspend nearly 5 million kuna three months of funding. The party's leader then said the fine will be paid, the law will be changed. It was such a rather sound statement and followed the amendments to the law but also the court's decision because it was claimed that the law was in some way both non-constitutional and pointless. The Constitutional Court ordered the withdrawal of Article 42. The law is because it is not fair and it really may not be if you are late as a company in submitting your financial reports your sentences and a dozen times lower than the political parties. However, when it was due to repeat the procedure, the SDP was late again, but then failed to comply with the law it had amended and failed to deliver its report to the State Election Commission and then the fine was somewhat lower, somewhere around 600 thousand kuna. I hope I'm saying that at least at the level of the bearers of those who are responsible for the functioning of political parties, that kind of thing won't happen to us. The basic question today may be raised in this debate whether we really have enough or too many political parties or not. You've seen the data, we're really scary, we're fat in the number of parties that were founded in the Republic of Croatia. Can we influence that? I think we can influence all processes and certainly also because what to say is that over the past 25 years, 83 parties have been shut down. So, in addition to these 171 we still had 83 that went missing in 25 years. I was particularly distracted by what happened during the past term, and it happened that a party called the Communist Party of Croatia was founded. The party's first attempt and establishment was in 2006 in Vukovar and HDZ not to allow the establishment of such a party. Unfortunately, under regular number 261 with 18.10.2013, such a party is registered in the Republic of Croatia. Some today will assure me according to all our daily debates, public debates that it's probably the same as some attempt at satire or some performance. But really setting up that party is a question of whether it was necessary for this country? When it's a fundamental goal, it's a fundamental goal, a grandening of a totalitarian system with which we broke up in the '90s. A year. Or an advocate for the values of that system. The question is, what have we been dealing with for the past 25 years? What was going on in this area was that we didn't care to let it go and register it because that's what law could allow and everyone respected that procedure. What might most be said here today and what is most painful is the part that may not have been resolved to the end, which is the departure of people from parties to various decisions or their own ambitions, and what happens at the moment when the party becomes parliamentary, whose resources are, who should have a party or individual with them, whether it's just or unfair. There have been numerous examples especially in the past term that there has been decomposition on the left side of the political spectrum, new parties have been formed, such as ORAH, Reformists, forward Croatia, etc. Some of them went out and said, "As Parliamentarians, they didn't have the right to funds." Some of them went away. So simply what we need to conclude is that this sport, a popular sport of establishing political parties, is indeed not only based on the findings of this revision but also on all previous experiences, something that the new government is hoping to successfully tackle and really support certain criteria and introduce better criteria for this political system to come to the level of countries with which we are in the EU community because it really is 171 much more than 11, 14, 30 etc. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3354	Thank you. Dear Representative Davor Penic applied for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3355	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You've opened three topics I've managed to catch. You were talking about a large number of subjects on the political scene. Secondly, you were talking about the obligations of these entities. And third, you were talking about controlling the financing of different political parties. I agree with one part and with this first part where you said you should or should have compromised the number of political parties in the Republic of Croatia compared to other countries in the environment, so you said that these countries with fewer political parties have better parliamentary or local democracy. I don't agree with that. The second thing, when you were talking about that political action in the Republic of Croatia cost about 114 million kuna compared to the budget of the Republic of Croatia, these are insignificant funds. So you're wrong about that, too. As far as the funding model of these political parties is concerned, the best model is the one we have, which is that directly from the budget is given funds and controlled. The revision has just been in control of donations and various channels of political party financing over the past few years, and I thank them and support each one of their reports. And some are also processed on the basis of their reports by the judiciary. I don't think by any administrative act we can ban the work of political parties and the establishment of political parties and that you're wrong. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3356	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3357	Thank you very much. I didn't say they had a better democracy because they have fewer parties, I didn't say that, I just compromised the number and I didn't say in any word that they're doing anything better than we are in terms of democracy and reach. But I believe they're working, I believe. This shows examples and shows the progress of their democratic process that is not equal to ours, especially in those countries that have become democratic earlier than the Republic of Croatia. Because if it's normal for us to have a 171 political party, then we're going to continue to force it and set up one-timers. And I think this government needs to look into what's going on in that space, and it's kind of different. So if there's a need to create and act but not just have numbers and regular numbers. We've come here since the '90s. So far until 261, let's conclude in the following year that we have 300 or 350 regular numbers of new parties. The democratic process is alive and probably not the end of it but it warns that we have something in my opinion too. I don't argue that there are local parties. On my island, I have one local party called the Rape General Assembly, which acts in a high-quality manner, neatly delivering its reports. I mean, she's been on this level for almost 20 years, and she's never wanted to rise to one level more. They have their own electoral body, they regularly submit financial reports, and they certainly have a future. But there are, you can look at those names so I'm having a hard time already, at least I would find a name that would never happen again in the sense that a party should be called in a new way. Almost all the names have been used long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3358	Thank you. The replica was reported by the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3359	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Boric the Communist Party of Croatia is not registered during HDZ, not because HDZ did not want to register the party, but because 100 people were not gathered on the founding group. That's why it's not registered. And then a practice was established that there must be 100 people present at the founding assembly, not that there must be 100 signatures of founders. And it seems to me in 2013 that this party was registered because there was no legal or constitutional basis to deny registration. However, you can launch a constitutional court request to ban the party. There is another one for you called the Union of Communists of Croatia and this party is registered the same. So if you think that the name of this party should not be registered in Croatia and there are in France, Italy, Greece and the Czech Republic, O.K. Let us submit to the Constitutional Court a request, I believe that the professional services of the Ministry of Administration worked in accordance with law and constitution when registering. And to do things differently would hurt the law. And as for the question whether there are too many parties in Croatia I will remind you that your coalition has even named the party's wrong name in the application to the State Election Commission and only because of this kind of kindness and vision through the fingers of the DIP lists have been recognised to you. And perhaps when determining whether there are enough parties in the Republic of Croatia, I will try to read who is now in power in Croatia, who makes up the ruling majority. So Croatian Democratic Community, Croatian Peasant Party, Croatian party of rights Dr. Ante Starčević, Block of Pensioners Together, Croatian Social Liberal Party, HRAST Movement for Successful Croatia, Croatian Democratic Party, Zagorje Democratic Party, Most Independent Lists, Bandic Milan 365, Party of Labour and Solidarity, Democratic Prigorje-Zagrebačka Party, Democratic Party of Women, Croatian European Party, Croatian Workers' Party of Greens - Eco Alliance, Istrian Democrats Istriani, Međimurje Party, Independent Peasants of Croatia, New Wave, Development Party, Party of Retired Party, Retired Democratic Union, Green Alliance of the Green Green Green Party, and you still needed Mirko Raskovic to have a parliamentary majority. So I don't know if we should keep counting whether we have too many parties or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3360	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3361	Thank you very much. My colleague Bauk and I always have lively discussions. As for the Communist Party of Croatia for the first time 937, the second time extended life in a slightly different form of '90 and then formed or registered in 2013, I don't know why, whether you have a replica, whether you have a parallel, whether you run away with it on your own or for some other reason, you will know that. You said the legal conditions had been met and we have to respect that. You also stated why HDZ didn't want to, and I said, and that's not something I'd like to boast about. As for these parties with whom we are in the coalition, the SDP has worked hard to agree with all parties one majority. And if the SDP had agreed on a new ruling majority of differences would only be in two parties when we talk about the number, then there would be two fewer. However, when it comes to election laws, when a referendum on elections was called, i.e. about selecting representatives by name and last name or desire was then to show up at the Croatian Parliament as many parties as possible, to elect their own representatives as possible. And when we talk about that number, probably this first goal has been quite achieved, we do have one respectable number of only members of the coalition and the parties, the parties themselves of the parliamentary parties, much, much less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3362	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3363	Dear colleague Boric. You said somehow in the spirit that we needed the Communist Party of Croatia to appear in Croatia. I don't know what we needed, whether it's a political performance I don't know, or a motive. I would just mention one fact which is that it is a legal and legitimate party and I think that the Bauk of Communism is not threatening Croatia, but that the bauk of something else, not Arsen Bauk, but some other bauk is threatening Croatia and it obviously doesn't bother you. I would just remind myself that in most European countries, the Communist Party, for example, the Czech Republic and Moravska have 15 to 18% of citizens' support. The Communist Party of Greece, not to mention the Communist parties in France, Italy, etc. It is therefore necessary to take care of some context. And this surprise, poets are surprised, not politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3364	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3365	Thank you very much. As for my colleague, Pecnik, as far as legitimacy is concerned, I haven't questioned him in any part of it, I just argued whether we needed it in view of all the process for the past 25 years and of everything we've been through and what we've fought against in some way and we know which ones are in value and what it represents in its programme that and such a party. As far as action in democratic space is concerned, I could be surprised by some events, so let's just say the diameter of the past term. Labourists were one of the opposition parties, they're opposition again, and that's nothing wrong. They were one of the parties who strongly called power for all the bad things they did. Labourists were parties against the coalition leaders with whom they eventually entered and filed criminal charges for not acting in accordance with Croatian laws. I was surprised it was even possible. But here you see our political system has managed to resolve such a doubt. It is possible to be an opposition to the authorities and to go to elections with that coalition and become an opposition again. The result, you have your own club, but I think we need to work on the other part, which is the credibility and consistency of the attitudes we stand for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3366	Thank you. The individual debate was attended by a respected representative, Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3367	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I keep a very good report of the State Audit because here after a long time we see that the financing of the electoral process that has been mystified for years by creating a bad climate, mistrust, non-transparentity to be brought into some normal frames. I therefore welcome this big step and progress in fully regulating the financing of political parties and independent lists in recent years. Unfortunately, this is not only the result of the will of these or previous authorities, but also of the pressure from the European Commission and other actors in Croatia who have contributed to the legal settlement of the issue. So the question arises whether this regulation has ensured full transparency of political party financing and elections, in what way. We all agree that to a good extent, a good step has been made, that it is good and that the State Election Commission is getting reports of all elections, the spending of funds, and this certainly increases transparency. I also agree with the assessments of those who say it is good for both political parties and the lists to be financed from the budget from local communities to the state budget because all this reduces various abuses. However, in the audit findings, we see that out of 112 and almost 60% of the warrants and recommendations, there is still a significant number of these warrants and recommendations are not respected and not followed. And I believe that it is necessary to fully insist that all the orders and recommendations in all those parties or lists are consistently implemented and that mechanisms should be found in which way to withdraw the question of responsibility to those who do not adhere to it. Because the issue of financing transparency strengthens citizens' confidence in political options. And so in this sense here I commend the work of the State Audit because it is a visible shift, visible progress and will contribute to making this area even more orderly. As far as equality is concerned, I think we can discuss whether we are all in the same way both today and in the past and in the future. I'd like to mention a question here about renting space, which is why the new law has been regulated at local level. So it's good to regulate that question, but here we are witnessing that it took us 24 or five years to become all equal because some were more equal. So, we know that one party here is also in this House for 20 and a few years as a follow-up of a former party in the former country for free used the business premises by declaring itself a follow-up to the same political options while all the others had an obligation to pay those costs and communal, so renting business spaces. But thank God, here's to getting rid of that, too. I don't know if it's been solved anywhere in Croatia, but here we are in Split until last year we had one such party in a privileged position. I would also mention the problem of allocating the costs that go for political action to parties and independent lists. So, all the political parties spend this, these money on their employees, on their cold drive, on administration, so municipal services, on everything that is needed for political work, and it works more or less. However, we have a problem with the financing of independent lists that have the same status. However, when a person leaves a political party, the funds for political action remain in the political party, and when a person leaves a list, the money goes to a special account of the person who left the list and often creates a number of problems. I can see that the audit also recognized it through the unintended spending of those funds. At local level, we are even more witnessing such abuses, and I believe that further progress is being made towards the more transparent resolution of the issue of political parties financing, independent lists and spending of these funds, that a step should be made and the issue should be regulated so that the persons who have left the lists are also left behind so as not to be in a more favourable position than the members of political parties. So, if we are talking about equality, we need that area, in this area, to ensure full equality. In any case, all praises to this report and the aim is to make the next one even better and better and better and to make as few unresolved remarks as possible by the auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3368	Thank you. A distinguished representative, Tanja Vrbat Grgic, appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3369	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's my colleague, Škorić. You've had a moderate discussion. I can agree with her most of the time. But when you call the SDP you did not say it out loud, but here you are probably talking about the Social Democratic Party of Croatia as heirs of the Communist Party, then I must tell you that you are right that we as a legal successor and inherited a large part of the property, i.e. to take over a large part of the property. But you inherited, that is, an even greater number of members of the Communist alliance. You might prefer to have inherited property from members, but here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3370	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3371	Thank you very much. The Honorable MP's answer. I don't think I've ever said anything incorrect in general, you've declared yourself a legal follower, you've inherited that property, you've been in a privileged position for 25 years. I think it's completely inappropriate and I'm glad that the existing legal regulations bring it to some extent within the limits of normality. And as for the members, I don't know how you get these estimates of how many members of the SDP or former party are located in the Croatian Democratic Community I can only show you respect for anyone, everyone's right and people who were members of the party but here in my organization in the city of Split there are no people who have ever been a member of the Communist Party or of the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3372	Thank you. The replica was presented by the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3373	Thank you. So that's why you're in opposition if there was someone you'd probably know how to win elections in Split. Well, good. So, as far as property and inheritance is concerned, I'd like to remind you that it's '97. A law that made the property state property and as far as renting is concerned, at least in Split, I would say so when the SDP came to power in Split, it began to take better care of the city's property and then it was charged. That while these were before, they didn't think of it. Therefore, I wouldn't go far into history who inherited whom, who took whom, who is whom, etc. and who would be affected by lustration or who she wouldn't touch. Besides, I think there are also prominent members of the former members and parties in the parliamentary majority you have, as well as former SDP members. Therefore, it may not be best to discuss the financing of political parties from 2014, but at least we did not go to '41. And '45. than this in the late '80s and early '90s. This already represents some progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3374	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3375	Thank you very much. It was neither my goal nor my intensity to go back to history but here I am glad that both my colleagues and that today the Croatian state finally resolved after 25 years of existence and that the question that followers of the former communist party do not enjoy a privileged position in independent Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3376	Thank you. The following has appeared for an individual discussion by the distinguished representative Andrija Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3377	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the State Audit Office. So here I was doing it yesterday for some of the reports you had, there's no reason not to do it today, to thank you for the clearly expressed opinions and reports you're giving. What's important is I think it can be concluded that you're not the only ones who worked as the head office but also the area office in that whole story. What matters is that one synergy of the complete examination you have. And thanks to the obvious reports and consciousness that develops from day to day or year these reports are clearer, more visible, I would say one word more transparent. That's what's good and good and good and important. So in this summary, you told us and gave us information that you had carried out a financial audit of 30 political parties, 6 independent representatives and 2 members of the representative body of local units in the administration and self-government. We've seen how much income, we've realized that expenditures are slightly higher and that's somewhere a little more than 50% of the parties have shown that they've been in the plus, slightly less than that in the minus. But what's important, what you've pointed out here, and I think that's what we need to do in the future, is that some political parties haven't established a control system. That's bad, that's not good. The control system they have isn't effective. You said some of them don't have annual work programmes and a financial plan, they didn't bring it in. Well, if we're members of something somewhere, then obviously we have some obligations that we need to meet. Some people probably take that seriously. I'll try to explain this later. They did not draw up basic financial reports in a regulated manner. Come on, we can tell they tried not to do it the right way, they tried something. Not to say that the difference in the truth of showing the data is recorded in the books and the real state. You listed a number of gaps that occurred around the business books, the list of assets and liabilities, and the fact that the two political parties did not keep records of the receipt of membership fees. How are we supposed to read this except for some resources coming in and not keeping a record of it? I think it's a popular name in Croatia for the gray economy. He can't get anything in without you recording about the money or at least he shouldn't. You gave the following orders and recommendations to make these systems more efficient, control systems that should achieve something. You said the financial resources could be used, you ordered keeping records of the issue of certificates, etc., etc. So you've elaborated very closely what needs to be done. True, the revision for 2014, as far as I understand one of the criteria, was that the revenues of more than 100,000 kuna were. You have well listed 14 parliamentary parties, 16 extraparliamentary political parties, etc. And what one of the predecessors said to me seems to me to be a respected representative of the Mlakar on behalf of our club that these are procedures that last eight months, or they lasted. This procedure was eight months, from April to December. In Croatia, incomes and expenditures from this or that position are constantly discussed. You've made it very nice to say that of these 114 million from the state budget is a total of 53 million. So if I can add it up to less than 50%. But you also said the revenues from the local unit budget were achieved at 42 million. So, slightly less than 30%. Here we come to those famous membership fees, the membership contributions of almost 9 million. And then you say 14 political parties means almost half did not show revenue from membership fees and membership contributions. Of which 5 parliamentary, 9 extraparliamentary. I personally think it's a tragedy that someone is sitting in the Croatian Parliament and not doing what the laws say when we talk about political parties. Of course, that goes for those who have not entered Parliament. They say and constantly create some kind of fama around voluntary donations or donations. So you've made it quite nice here that it's about 4 million 619 thousand kuna of the total amount, let's remember 114 million kuna. So let's turn that into a percentage, then we'll see that what's being said is that only these donations don't live and can't live one party, but that's why there's income on other grounds that can be done. The findings of the audit, it is he that was in principle the most concerned that you had nicely taxed, that the findings of the audit in 2014 identified irregularities relating to the delirious and internal structure, so on the system of planning control, accounting operations, etc.. Now, Honorable Representative Skoric just said 59.2 or 112 warrants have been executed, so not even 60%. 7% are executed and 35.34% do not act at all. Now I'm going back to that discussion yesterday. So you're doing something, you're doing something serious because when you name lists, legislation that you had to control everything about whether they're going through it then you see that it's a very complex thing. Okay, it's your office's job. But you're making recommendations, you've found something, and 40%, so from 10 to roughly I'll say four doesn't react. So the question is whether one day you need to open the debate, the question of your powers at this stage B when you give orders and recommendations what when you don't do it. I think that institution gets serious when it has such a measure that it can control. And, in conclusion, you have stated this nicely here, for all identified irregularities and failures in the business of political parties, representatives of independent representatives and members of the representative bodies, you have given orders and recommendations. I'm sorry that 40% did not respond at all to your orders and recommendations and, of course, I will absolutely support this report as well, because I think it is good and quality and every time we do one step clearly more towards this transparency of political party financing. And that's good, that's quality and that's how it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3378	Thank you. This concludes the debate, given that the applicant's representative does not want to take the final word. We'll vote on this wheel when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3379	The following is the report on the financial audit carried out by political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of local and regional (regional) self-governments selected from the list of voting groups for 2014. Reporter is State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary authorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government selected from the list of the voting group for 2014. A year.". Please vote. The vote is over. 103 votes in favor. So I find that a unanimous conclusion has been reached that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3380	We move to the next item of the agenda: - The report on the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education from September 2014 to January 2016; The Reporter is the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. Based on Article 112 of the Treaty on the Functioning of Law on scientific activity and higher education. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. And I would like to call on the representative of academics Vlatko Silobrčić, president of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education for the introductory word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3381	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, allow me to report to you on the work of the committee that I am president of. First, unfortunately, I must say that there is discontinuity in the work of the previous committee and the newly elected committee. In fact, since 23 November 2009, the board has not actually worked. So you didn't, or the Croatian Parliament didn't get the report for 2010, '11, '12. and '13. It was only 6 June 2014 that the new committee was appointed, therefore this report is as it is, so it refers to September 2014 until January 2016. I'll present to you now the board, otherwise my report has 7 pages, so it wouldn't be too long to read it, but I'd rather warn you of important moments. This is the composition of the current committee: Josip Balaban Catholic Faculty of worship Zagreb, Prof. Dr. Andrija Braša Zganec Institute of Social Sciences Ivo Pilar Zagreb, Prof. Dr. Ines Kersan-Škabić Faculty of Economics and Tourism Dr. Mijo Mirković Pula, Dr. Ljiljana Koleshnik Institute of Art History Zagreb, dr. Jelena Macan Institute of Medical Research and Medicine Zagreb, Prof. Dr. Enes Midžić Academy of Drama Arts Zagreb, academician Vlatko Silobrčić, dr. Nenad Starc Economic Institute Zagreb i dr. Ivica Vilibić Institute for Oceanography and Fisheries in Split. At his constitutive session, the committee selected me as president and Professor Midzic as deputy. During this period, the Committee met every month except for August and December, so we held a total of 13 sessions. The agenda was constantly the same adoption of the agenda, the minutes of the previous session. Then we would come to order individual items and sometime after the second session we felt it was necessary to introduce a point of proactive action of the committee that I was going to tell you about later. And finally the rest. At the very beginning, we asked to be joined by the previous chairman of the committee of Professors. Vedran Katavić and to tell us his experiences. His experiences could have come to realize that of all attempts to do something really in this area of science and higher education, very little has been done. Perhaps his most successful move was to include this committee of parliament in an international organisation dealing with the issue of ethics. We found that it would be good at the very beginning to supplement the ethical code and I think it's relevant for the business of this committee, so I'll tell you what we actually do in the ethical code at least this part that matters. We have added in the ethical code that institutions in the system are obliged to address the issue of violations of codes as well as any occurrence of discrimination, conflicts of interest and other academic misbehavior primarily through the ethical commissions of an organisational unit in which possible violations occur. So, we have established a permanent hierarchy of solving individual issues that consists of first solving the Ethics Commission over and over again, or an ad hoc commission that is closest to the event. Then comes the Commission of the General Institution, for example, if it is the first university, then the second university and only in the end comes this committee. We changed some rules of procedure with the introduction into the rules of procedure of the possibility of teleconference to resolve urgent issues. From individual cases, the Committee dealt with approximately three to four individual cases. Unfortunately, most of the cases were repeated because the units and bodies we addressed simply did not respond, so we had to discuss them again and again and encourage them to answer us. I would especially like to tell you about the proactive action. In fact, the experience of the previous committee and ours proved necessary for this committee to write a single county letter addressed to all institutions within science and higher education in which we asked all institutions to establish their ethical commissions and to comply with the ethical code of this committee which is clearly available on the website of the Science and Higher Education Agency. In addition to these Circulars that had absolutely no echo at first, we have repeated the Circulars this time so there is no doubt whether the Circulars are delivered or not. One of the things we discussed at the point of proactive action was the question of data collection. It turns out there are state agencies that get money from the budget. On the basis of this money, they collect data, but when these data are requested because they would have to be publicly available under the law, they are required to pay for these data. And that's why we had a meeting with Dr. Ana Maria Musa, who is the attorney for these issues, and we agreed to try to do something in the law that would allow those data that have already been paid by the state budget to be recharged. One of the points was participation in international meetings. I would like to say that our committee is co-founder of the board, it is actually an informal committee of the European Network of Research Integrity Offices although it is already Professor. Gregoric, who was in the meetings twice represented our committee, we felt it was necessary to choose his representative and we chose a colleague, Willibic, as a representative. I will also say that one meeting of this committee, which is being cut short, is also held in Split. We think it would be useful to find the means to have our representative participate in the meetings of that committee, because there are many issues that are clearly not being asked in all european countries. In the end, I'll read you the final notes. So we are aware that there are still no established rules of conduct in both science and higher education or in all aspects of the Committee's work. That's why we tried to supplement both the code and the rules of procedure under which the board operates. During this reporting period, we felt that these changes were beneficial. We were less able to influence the behaviour of participants in science and higher education. So we had to deal with the same subjects at several sessions. We believe that the system of science and higher education is insufficiently familiar with the committee's competences and its activities. That is why on two occasions we have sent district memos asking the institutions in the system to certainly establish their ethical committees and to bring codes and sanction the established infringements. The fact remains that the committee is not authorised to make executive decisions, so the only thing left to do is to insist on encouraging the institutional ethical commissions to carry out their tasks effectively, to punish established infringements and to inform the administrations of the institutions and other relevant bodies of infringement of ethical principles. I think that it should be more precise to determine the committee's powers but also to give it the opportunity to clearly violate the code or sanction itself or have the power to ask the institutional ethical committees to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3382	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? Here is Honorable Representative Gordana Rusak, chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. You have already heard that the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education relating to the period from September 2014 to January 2016 and concluded that it accepted that report. I'm not going to repeat here the allegations in the report that you have on the benches, but I'm going to try to point out a very important problem for me mentioned in this report. It refers to the fact that there is a Committee on Ethics and Science and Higher Education of the appointed Parliament, which reports to the Parliament but does not have any authority and has an advisory character. Also in the Law on Science and Higher Education, Article 112 states that institutions in science and higher education can set up their ethical committees, but may not. This further weakens the position of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education appointed by the Assembly because their role is to make recommendations to universities and institutes to establish the mentioned committees. That's exactly what the academic was talking about for a while. As long as we have such a legal framework that leaves ethics and science and higher education at the level of conscience and goodwill of certain institutions and there are no sanctions for breaking ethical norms we cannot expect progress in this area. However, we can expect these problems to be addressed more by the media than by the institutions concerned. That the problem based on such a frustrating position of the commission, the committee appointed by the Parliament, was also a matter of the fact that his president was Prof. Dr. Vedran Katavic resigned from parliament in 2011. And now what I find most strange, most painful and tragic in this entire report. The Committee did not act from 2009 to 2014. In view of the really limited powers of that committee, it is a miracle that it has not been observed that it has not been operational for 5 years. But what surprises me is that one such important segment of the work of science in higher education, science and higher education is so neglected and in view of the legislation is completely degraded. This is what you have heard and worried me about. Here today, Mr. President of the Parliament has instructed all of us that this House not only has opportunities but also has an obligation to propose new legislation. I am sure that the Committee on Education, Science and Culture will take a responsible role in these processes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3384	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first one came to the debate, the distinguished representative Jaroslav Pecnik, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3385	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We've heard that this is the first report after a long time, and it's good that it's even happened because as we treat science, as far as we stand out, it's no wonder that we have selective reports every maybe five years. I hope it won't be a practice anymore. Not to repeat the words of the academics of Silobrčić, I'm just going to do what I think is important for this possible debate. It has been found that many things in the system don't work, I would say that maybe the whole system doesn't work very well, and the question is now how, in what way does this system work, do you change it at all, how do you change it or completely make it new? I dared after talking to the people I hold to have experience and knowledge on these issues and made some suggestions immediately to improve that system. First of all, one of the proposals is that members of the board should be primarily or exclusively retired university professors, scientists, because this uses their experience, are not useless, and also prevents conflicts of interest among those who are possibly members of the board, and then you will not have to if the problem in their community only has to be invoked or excluded from making decisions, debates, etc. So that would be one decision that is ultimately unknown in the world, so it's not new. The Committee is mixing between ethical and moral categories and ethics is actually a theory of morality, so if it's about some violations, then it's about moral violations, not ethical violations, which is not irrelevant. The truth is not listed anywhere as a bearing value of scientific work but is being discussed about the truthfulness of the data. It is assumed that all those in science, in the system of science, are professional and competent. Instead of actually going, what science assumes and asks for, by the method of skepticism, to be preconceived so that it actually comes to someone being competent and professional. When it comes to these codes he's actually largely written to say so in favor of natural-technical sciences, in fact somehow the most touching is that. Maybe it's understandable, bio-ethics, a whole series of things from bio-ethics to robotics that can be ethically, morally questionable, problematic, etc., but the fact that they don't respect certain specificities of socially humanistic sciences. First of all, I mean context, interaction, logic, etc. And what may be most important in all this counterfeiting is too narrowly interpreted. Infringement of research materials with equipment or processes and alteration and ex post manipulation of original data or their unfounded release from analysis. But where is he, for example? Forging the thesis of certain? That's not mentioned. So it should all be installed in me in some way in what's called the code. The fact that Mr. Academyman Silobrčić spoke about the problems and achievements of the board is when the committee finds that someone did something wrong, wrote, I don't know too much of the material of someone else's use, or but what we'll call it nice is that it actually only determines the fact that it should be sent to the university's parent college to discuss it, and we all know or at least I can talk about the experience from the environment that I come from and that is Osijek and I believe that nothing is better or different in Rijeka, either in Split or in Zagreb that it actually does not. In fact, that's how you come into conflict with a number of clans, client groups, political groups, and then it's all slowly trying to get under the rug, even though this syndrome... is pretty pronounced in these parts of our school, isn't it, but that's not the way you like to talk about it? And it all comes down to it, the fact is that it shouldn't be a shame because it's happening in the world. Well, in the end, here's Germany, which is our role model, and not just for us, but for the whole world, let's remember that... The unfortunate person who was to be deputy Angela Merkel, or promoted as deputy Angela Merkel, had to leave because he was found to have been cheating. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was then found that several ministers, even in the government of Angela Merkel, were also dealing with these illicit assets but there, as far as I was following it and I tried because I was interested, it was mostly not moving under the rug, but there was an open debate on why it was happening. So, it wanted to sort of reanalyze the situation, and with us, we bring it down to about now I'm going to do it because it's happening again today or tomorrow, right? That's not true, maybe because it's a degree's work, but it's actually a principle and everything else is what the nuances would say, which is that it actually comes down to us whether Vasso prescribed it or not. Now, fortunately for this Croatian Parliament that in the Croatian Parliament we have Mr. Bulj who has resolved it Solomonically and said approximately so well it doesn't matter, he doesn't prescribe, but he has a degree in Homeland War. It's just a metaphor because if Mr. Rainer were here he'd already warn me of our primus interpares that I'm not sticking to the subject, to talk outside the subject, but that's the topic. The theme is how we treat people who do it. As we treat the least we can do, we will treat the highest. And we see in fact that the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education actually has very limited competences. Mr. Silobrčić was talking about the proactive action I think it should be emphasized when it comes to this proactive action that he warns that they want to create a document on freedom of scientific research and professional work that knows no other limitations than ethical dishes. And then there's already talk about that information that agencies charge for what they shouldn't charge, that the data availability question is actually one of the fundamental rights of scientific research, not that you have to, but when someone else paid for it yourself. But in any case, when we talk more about these things, we should remind ourselves that the question was raised when we discussed whether the committee could revise certain decisions, whether it was possible to skip hierarchy, so let’s say that the committee would warn him of something without being previously warned by the university, universities, etc. Well, that's pretty vague. In any case, the things that the board deals with are strictly prescribed but I think it should also be taken care of because also what is the state of the university, how is it employed at the university? Nepotism that exists in colleges either largely or sufficiently is present, is it? Then the political conjecture, then the bargaining on other grounds, that's all the things that the board should take care of because we're witnesses, and here I come again from my own environment so I don't call anyone how the exams are sold. Of course, it's not just the mission of this board or, above all, not the board but the DORH, but the fact is that things happen and that somehow universities and colleges stay on the sidelines, so we have even one paradox that, fortunately, it's settled so that that man got fired, that you had a professor who dealt with corruption, while he was selling a college on the fight against corruption. So that's all that's going on here, and that's all the things that the board should have some attitude about, some opinion not to be the one now that I don't know about the deus at the machine, but simply to warn one by one of me about the great chaotic state of higher education on many issues in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3386	Thank you. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3387	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Jaroslava Pecek, I will draw your attention to the agenda item – Report on the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education from September fourteenth to January 16. I'm undermining the word ethics. In your report here, you called some of the political factors in the Republic of Croatia a nickname and what a nickname. Who gave you this right to call someone a nickname? I think at the very least, that from this public address all the people in public life otherwise you call all the people by name and last name because the most correct and ethical of you would be to give you a public apology now as you have publicly here and said because discussing ethics and thus someone without the approval of the person you call nicknamed and label really has nothing to do with the agenda point, and forgive me, it has nothing to do with this assembly either. It probably has something to do with some of the places where you hang out or you are there, which gives you the right to call anyone a nickname. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3388	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3389	Well, I was aware that there was going to be a hygienist who would warn me for the second time that I wasn't dealing with what I should be doing. .../Intruder Tepesh: What? I'm asking you, colleague Pecnik, I'm asking you to use the dictionary. So, please, hygienist isn't vulgar, but if that's how we're going to talk in the assembly I know a bunch of words that aren't vulgar but very insulting. So it doesn't make sense. I'm asking you to have one level. I'm really asking you. As far as I know, I'm not allowed to discuss this with the Speaker of the Parliament. Right? Well, I have to deny you the answer, but to you, sir, no, I can do it for you. So I think I'm dealing with exactly what it's like to taste things. Now, if you don't want to understand it or you're not able to understand it, it's your problem, but I think I'm very clear and precise about what the problem is and I'm expressing myself. Well, it's not the gentleman you mention that I used the nickname I see, I read it in the paper, so he should sue all the newspapers in Croatia that use that nickname. Why just to me? But in any case, this gentleman has finished a high school facility. It's a high school facility. It's not about kindergarten. So I don't see that I'm really mixing up the subject, but here's if you think I'm interfering, that's your right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3390	Thank you. A reply to the replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3391	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Jaroslav Pecnik, the parliamentary representative, injured Article 238 in the fourth indent, says "he defames or insults the president or other MPs". I am also a representative in this Croatian Assembly and from what point does the representative right me to call a god-awful "hygienic" or to my replica and my presentation. I ask you, dear Vice President, that in the future, they will pour out, and I will not use words to warn you because where this Croatian Parliament is headed, where these discussions take place.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3392	Thank you. I've reacted and warned, I think that's enough for now. Everyone has the right to speak. I said what I said not to repeat myself and I think the warning was good. The fellow Pecnik continued to speak and no longer used here are words we cannot characterize as vulgar but inappropriate. Next, a distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3393	Thank you very much, Vice President. This morning, about 30 MPs and left and right options found themselves at an informal gathering. At that gathering, I said one sentence that I would repeat here in this House of Commons. I'd like to, I'd like to, or I'd like to appeal to anything that this assembly never becomes a courtroom to anyone. In Croatia, executive, legislative and judicial powers are clearly divided. If someone did something, there are institutions who will investigate it and there are finally sanctions for it. The Parliament is not a place where we will call someone, talk about his guilt, call on newspaper inscriptions, and give even more information under quotes that will then serve the media to make these things move on and to create even more disorder in this space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3394	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Jaroslav Pecnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3395	I welcome the fact that a distinguished representative hangs out in his spare time, but it would be nice to get to know the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3396	Thank you. The next meeting was attended by a distinguished representative, Sabina Glasovac, on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3397	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear academics, Mr. Silobrčić, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP gives full support to the report on the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. At the same time expressing satisfaction with the fact that after 5 years of unwork and actually atrophy of this so and so important committee and institutions I will say so in the system of higher education science, in fact so regrettable that we have had such a tear over these 5 years. We believe it will never happen again. The report on the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education for the period from September 2014 to January 2016 speaks very clearly and transparently about all the tasks assigned to the Committee, such as promoting ethical principles and values in science and higher education, and that the review of all the items received and solved in these matters, additions to the Ethics Code and Rules of Procedure. It is equally evident in this report that the international activities of the Committee and the participation in international meetings are as valuable as they are. We particularly welcome the fact that the Parliamentary Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education has become a full member... and thus joined the European Network of Scientific Honesty Offices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you said, respected academics are extremely important to exchange, exchange experiences and to use all those achieved standards that exist in the international community that Croatia has not yet achieved. As we can see at its meetings, the Committee has adopted opinions and views on ethical acceptability or non-acceptability in the cases under consideration in the form of views, opinions, decisions, recommendations, proposals or remarks. The role of the Committee on Ethics as the highest advisory and expert body promoting ethics in science and higher education should be strengthened in the section relating to the normisation of the executive powers of the Committee and certainly is not acceptable to the non-compliance of certain scientific institutions with the rules which provide for the possibility of establishing ethical commissions or the adoption of ethical codes of certain institutions in accordance with the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Almost all members of the home Committee on Science, Education and Culture pointed out the same in the debate. As I have already stated in some way, by establishing this Committee on Ethics, which has had a five-year break in fact, in the Republic of Croatia, the concept of scientific honesty has risen to a higher level and has been in some way an example in international contexts. Even a prominent journal in 2009 Nature actually pointed out the Republic of Croatia as one of not so common countries that founded one of these bodies at national or national level. Unfortunately, after that, there was what we heard was happening. I'll just remind you a little, you should learn from history, somewhere in 2010 so then the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports left some proposal in the public that showed a tendency to abolish this National Ethics Committee where in fact all the competences of the then Ethics Committee wanted to descend to lower levels or independently to institutions in the system of science and high activity. This came across a lot of public resistance, however, if we see what happened after that and before that it was quite clear that there were then certain intensities that went very clearly in the direction of the inexcusable and in my opinion insufficiently motivated at that time of the suspension of the board or the decommissioning of its action. So I would just like to quote from 2010, a statement by the board president then, before he will resign from Mr. Vedran Katavic, who in his email pointed out, which was therefore also across the media placed in the public, which pointed out that this body for its work was a witness to the serious cases of a violation of scientific integrity which was most often accepted or supported in its own institutions and which is only the tip of the ice. And the message that he wanted to send by abolishing the Ethics Committee, he explained that it was precisely neglecting scientific honesty and favouring attitude even incentivising those who carry out not scientific and not academic procedures. He said that the impression that such actions are acceptable will not be able to remove the institutions that so far have hidden such actions in order to preserve the perception of honesty and reputation. No scientific community is immune to such actions, but its maturity is just estimated in a willingness not to allow and process them through similar bodies. The rules of scientific methodology and honesty are not characteristics of personality but are learnt and accepted in the wider community, which will point to their insignificantness by abolishing the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. It was therefore wanted to be done to amend the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, and Mr Katavic was later resigned. I sincerely hope, I am expressing hope that this committee will never again be questioned. I am pleased that the newly appointed committee, which was appointed in 2014 very spottly responded to some shortcomings that slowed his work until 2011 and somewhat earlier because the latest report was submitted to this Croatian Parliament in 2009 and that in fact the newly appointed committee corrected I will say this in some way strengthened the ethical code as a key document that prescribes minimum ethical standards that are expected from members of the academic community in order to justify the public trust and credibility of scientific and teaching work effort. The fundamental values for which the Committee advocates and why in the Croatian Parliament and the general public should give me full support for the work of the Committee are just honesty, academic excellence and freedom, mutual respect and human dignity, personal responsibility and responsibility of the institutions. The Code does not in any way restrict human, intellectual and academic freedom, on the contrary, stresses the role of civilised relations between all members of the community and the responsible exercise of rights in accordance with the responsibility of scientific and research teaching and academic obligations. If you look at the ethical code, which is unfortunately not implemented on lower level institutions or in all institutions in the system of science and higher education, and what you should see, then you will see that it actually has this minimum set standard as its basis, therefore the behaviour of all stakeholders in the system of science and higher education based on scientific honesty but also on a much wider basis than the scientific honesty itself and these are responsible for the implementation of scientific and teaching work. It prescribes and places as one of the key elements of action collegiation, accountability and obligations towards the home institution of the public, attitude towards students, according to other employees, prescribes all duties, obligations and rights of students, responsibility of institutions in the system, prescribes the need to sanction any kind of scientific dishonesty and fraud in science and to prevent conflicts of interest. The Committee shall also, through an ethical code, prescribe and establish procedures in cases of deviation from those standards. However, what I want to say on behalf of the Club of Representatives and representatives of the SDP in the Croatian Parliament is that we fully, fully support in some way the closing words that you conclude your report in which you stress that the irrefutable fact that the Committee is still not authorised to make executive decisions, so the only thing left to do is to insist on encouraging the institutional ethical commissions to carry out their tasks effectively, punish the established infringements of that administration of the institutions or other relevant bodies of notification of the implementation of ethical principles. And that you believe that it should be more precise to determine the powers of the board but also to give it the opportunity to clearly violate the code or sanction itself or have the power to ask the institutional ethical committees to do so and to do so. Therefore, with support from the report on the work of the Committee on Ethics and Science in the higher education of the Republic of Croatia from September 2014 to January 2016, our club fully supports you and your committee in endurance to fight and therefore to carry out your duties and to get the opportunity to sanction clear violations of the code and to have full powers to ask the institutional ethical committees to do so. Otherwise, if we wait for it to develop the ethics and responsibility of certain institutions, I'm afraid there could be a lot more, a lot of unsanitary examples, and unfortunately there could be that "eat the donkey wolf". Let us not forget that that committee that was shut down, which had stopped its work, pointed to some of the burning problems and individual cases in breach of ethical standards in the system of higher education and science. I believe you remember that the board played an important role in promoting ethics in scientific work when, for example, the body confirmed the accusations of the British Medical Journal of the plagiarization of two scientific texts by Dr. Asim Kurjak. It is just one of the most exposed media cases in Croatia's near history that would certainly not have been so publicly exploited and not sanctioned, I am convinced that there has been no relevant opinion and action of the then Committee on Ethics. Thank you very much for your attention. This concludes, so the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP gives full support to this report of the Committee but also to future work and the greater the power to truly implement what is stated in the Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3398	Replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Rusak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3399	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, I would only add that we will not be able to leave it to the committee itself to vote for its position, to strengthen its position, that it will be the task of this home, our committee and the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3400	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3401	I agree with you, dear colleague Rusak. I am fully aware of this fact but I am equally aware of the fact that I am a representative in this case of a party that is in the parliamentary minority in this Croatian Parliament. Of course, the board will have the support of me and my colleagues in these efforts. Unfortunately, shears and skirts are still lying in the Croatian language, which is what MPs of the parliamentary majority hold in their hands. Here I believe that through these discussions, a certain consensus will be crystallized about these efforts, intentions and assistance to the committee, our parliamentary committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3402	I would like to thank the honourable MPs and the MPs. I'm setting up a recess and we'll continue our work at 3:00. I thought it would be sooner but here. ... Yeah, here we go, 15 o'clock. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3403	Here's a esteemed colleague, moving on with the debate. It's the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of Sanja Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3404	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Academyman Silobrčić, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The debate on this item on the agenda and on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament today raises questions about the position and status of the Agency for Science and Higher Education and the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education itself. Members of this esteemed committee, as I said at the meeting of our Assembly Committee, certainly by their names, i.e. the résumés guarantee the expertise of this committee's work. Although you yourself said that there was discontinuity in the work, we still see that your board was meeting, working and giving opinions where necessary. Although the work of this committee is unfortunately not so well known to the public, its action is extremely important for the system of education and science. Why do I say that? Because, unfortunately, we are almost daily witnessing a violation of ethical and moral but also legal frameworks in higher education and scientific institutions. What we have then concluded on the board, and can be repeated today, is that all the institutions in which there have been irregularities and which this committee has sent its recommendations to respect ethical codes, unfortunately, have not always removed this and have not acted according to the recommendations of this Ethics Committee. Unfortunately, I can also say that this committee has no authority to order it to highly educational institutions, but its action is of utmost importance that people who, in their own positions, should be those who raise, educate and promote the greatest ethical values begin to act and work in accordance with the provisions of the ethical code of their institutions and also in accordance with the law. All provisions of the Ethics Code are necessary in this respect in everyday educational and scientific practice. Generally speaking for Croatian society as a whole, and for the political action would be particularly encouraging I am sure that more is heard in daily life than the relevant opinions of the members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and the members of this committee, because of their professional arguments which could then be deprived of the daily-political guidelines and that the work of this committee and the ethical code as a whole be more public to be motivated by individuals, their personal responsibility, but also for institutions and institutions in education and science as a whole. Well, thank you very much. We will, of course, support this committee's report on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3405	Thank you. Here's the final, academic Vlatko Silobric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3406	... but I also ask you to understand that much of what we can do depends on you on the laws you bring and on the duties you give us so that we can do them properly and to the end. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3407	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3408	The following is the report on the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education for the period September 2014 to January 2016. The Report is submitted to the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am voting on the following conclusion: "It will accept the report on the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education for the period September 2014 to January 2016.". Please vote. The vote is over. 100 votes for, 2 abstentions. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3409	The next item of the agenda is - Report on the effectiveness of the financing of the construction and management of sports halls The report is submitted by the State Audit Office under Article 9. The State Audit Office Act. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Mr. Klesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. The State Audit Office has carried out an audit of the effectiveness of financing the construction and management of 6 sports halls, the City Sports Hall in Varazdin, sports halls Arena Zagreb, the City Garden Osijek, Žatika-Porec, the sports centre of Višnik-Zadar and the sports business centre Lora-Split. The audit covers the period of business of sports halls from their construction until the end of 2014. The subject of the audit was the implementation of the activities of the audit entities related to preparatory activities, the construction, financing and use of sports halls, and the objectives of the audit were to assess whether all the necessary evaluations and analysis of the economic viability of the construction of sports halls were carried out, whether the obligations are carried out in accordance with the completed contracts, whether sports halls are managed in an effective and economically viable manner, whether activities are carried out with the purpose of improving the business of sports halls and whether control activities are carried out over the management and operation of sports halls. I will only list some of the facts that have been determined by the revision below. No cost-effectiveness study has been developed, i.e. the justification of building halls in Poreč, Split and Zadar. Prior to the adoption of the Decision on the financing of the construction of the city sports hall in Varazdin according to the public-private partnership model, the risks taken by the City of Varazdin have not been analysed and the agreement of the Ministry of Finance for the conclusion of the contract has not been obtained. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is not informed about the activities and business of Arena Zagreb and the cost of the resources available. Lacks at the Osijek Hall have not been removed or a valid permit has been issued. A contract on how to manage and use a sports hall has not been concluded setting out, inter alia, the objectives to be achieved by financing the management and use of the hall and reporting on the performance of the contractual obligations. Then no management and funding was arranged for the Kingdom Hall in Poreč. The cost of debt by issuing bonds for the construction of the Višnik sports centre in Zadar was more than 3 times the cost of borrowing by taking loans for approximately equal amounts of principal and repayment deadlines. Therefore, on the basis of the established facts and taking into account the objectives of the revision, the State Audit Office estimated that the financing of the construction and management of the city sports hall in Varazdin, the sports hall Arena Zagreb, the sports hall of Osijek, the sports hall of Žatika-Porec and the sports hall of Višnik-Zadar was partially effective while the Lora-Split sports business centre considered it ineffective. In order to remove identified weaknesses and failures, the office has made recommendations implementing which would increase the efficiency and financing of the construction and management of sports halls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3411	Thank you, Mr. Klesic. Would the committee's reporters like to take a word for it if there was someone? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. The first one for discussion came from a respected representative, Ana Komarić Devcic, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3412	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, of course, I'm going to say that the SDP club will support this audit, or the audit report, even though I would have been the happiest if we never got it, it would have been a lot easier for us. The revision therefore covers the period from 2008 to 2014 and the revision of sports facilities in Varazdin, Arena Zagreb, Osijek, Poreč, Zadar and Split. These were the objects we were building for the World Handball Championship, and then somehow we all supported the coming of the World Handball Championship, although even then it came from the ranks of the SDP, a warning that some of the things still need to be analyzed, which is what the State Audit find means after 6 years since those halls were built showed that we were right. But I'm not going to say that it was only the SDP, I guess other experts who thought that such large projects could not go on a flat-rate basis without an analysis and actually a real state or justification for the construction of these large objects. That's what the State Review itself said, as Mr. Chief State Auditor said before, I'll do it again, it just needs to be repeated. What has not been done, and no cost-effectiveness study or justification for building a hall in Poreč, Split and Zadar The Government of the Republic of Croatia is not informed about the activities and business of Arena Zagreb. The shortcomings in the Osijek hall have not been removed and it still does not have a valid permit. Competition for Manager of Arena Zagreb in 2012, 2013 and 2014. No contract on how to manage the use of the sports hall in Osijek has been concluded, hall management in Poreč has not been established, no management and funding plan has been adopted, and so on. What we can say about individual objects, which is why the State Review found out, so let's take it in a row. So the Varazdin City Sports Hall costs 660 million kuna. What the State Audit find suggests is that the opinion of the agency requested on 28 June and 10 July 2007 was not issued by the Agency because the prescribed documentation was not provided. The Ministry did not deliver the requested consent. The State Audit Office is of the opinion that prior to the conclusion of the contract, so we are talking about the 2007 implementation of the Public Private Partnership Project, we should have obtained all these consents. What did a private partner in Varazdin commit to? The private partner in Varazdin committed to building and managing the hall for a total of 284 months and accepted the financing obligations of all stages of the Kingdom Hall. What did the city of Varazdin commit to? The town of Varazdin was obliged to rent a sports part of the hall on condition of the contract and to pay the rent regularly. The monthly lease is 2 million kunas without value added tax and regardless of whether the hall is used or not. It's a 25-year lease. Arena Zagreb, value of the facility 85.6m euros. They pay the rent at an annual level of 7.5m euros and half the city of Zagreb, half the Republic of Croatia and within 28 years. So far, the total cost of the city and the state is 338 million kuna. And what is said at the beginning, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not been reported on the activity of the business of the hall and on the funds spent. Osijek Sports Hall, total value of 223 million kuna. What is important for this hall is to say that some shortcomings have been identified since December 2009. What shortages? The project documentation was deviated, then found that we had a problem with the roof and that the hall itself had not been given a valid permit. Today, therefore, 6 years after the hall is in use, so by completing this revision in 2014, this hall still does not have a useful permit. The Hall of Poreč, worth 154 million kuna. For this hall according to the state audit, we could say that it is still the best of all these halls, although the findings of the state audit say that it was necessary to make a study of cost-effectiveness or justification for investment in this facility. Vishnik Sports Center, Zadar 347 million. We have to separate it from that, so it's a total, total sports center, the hall cost 90 million and the closed pool 86 million. What did the state audit say? The State Audit Office proposes to the city of Zadar and the company Sport Centre Višnik before building other planned facilities to develop a professional basis for the justification of construction. The government of the Republic of Croatia committed itself to taking commitments from the city of Zadar, i.e. the Vishnik Sports Centre, to the total amount of 100 million kuna. The sports business centre of Lora, Split, was built by a public private partnership. The total value of the complex was, therefore, planned to amount to 140m euros, the first phase or sports hall of 40m euros. The private partner received the right to build, finance and manage the centre itself for 30 years. The city and the Government of the Republic of Croatia sign a 5m-euro joint financing agreement in 2007. The contract found that payment of the lease would last from 2009 to 2037. However, as it happens on 31 December 2011, it was observed that the company operating the hall failed to fulfil its obligations, did not result in a building permit, did not produce part of the centre relating to commercial premises and the floor garage. During 2010 and 2011, the company demonstrated significant obligations, inability to pay current obligations and the financial statements of the parent company pointed to the indifference and inability to settle the obligations it had made. What was also highlighted in the revision that the city and the Republic of Croatia did not request the termination of the contract but stopped paying the contracted lease in 2012. What does the State Audit find say, or advice? The State Audit Office is of the opinion that the abovementioned cost-effectiveness study was not sustainable. When we look at the number of events in the halls themselves and what they have been dealing with, that is, how much these halls have been used for the past six years, then we come up with the following devastating data. So, Varazdin in 6 years 219 events, Arena Zagreb in 6 years 204 events, Osijek in 6 years 109 events, Poreč in 6 years 150 events, Zadar in 6 years 650 events, Laura from 2009 to 2011. 109 events from 2011 to 2014 zero events. Since it is well known to all of us that in the halls each year it must be filled for 220 days to make it worthwhile, it is clear to everyone that none of these halls have managed to finance themselves. And what does the state audit tell us in the end? The State Audit says that on the basis of the audit procedures carried out and the fact-finding procedures, taking into account the setting of the audit goals, the State Audit Office estimated that the financing of the construction and management of the City Hall of Varazdin, Arena Zagreb, the Sports Hall of Osijek, the Sports Hall of Poreč and the Sports Hall in Zadar was partially effective while the Lora Split Sports Centre was assessed as ineffective. And now we all together dear my colleagues and colleagues can ask the following question whether we are a rich enough society to engage in the construction of sports facilities that are partly or completely ineffective, especially when we know that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by 2014, this experiment cost 1.3 billion kuna, that the state has invested up to now 407 million kuna, and then the next question is whether we need megalomanical halls when we know that in the Republic of Croatia of 878 elementary schools 120 have not yet built a hall, and of the 1035 district schools of them 1000 also have no hall. These are, therefore, halls where children should perform a mandatory subject of physical and health culture. And I will try to quote a prominent sport worker who, when there was a report from the Croatian Olympic Committee in the previous meeting, said the following: "I will tell you what it looks like in Zagreb, for example. In Zagreb, 50 million kuna annually goes to the Arena Zagreb, where no more than 30 days of sports are held annually. If we don't count on the wedding fair, the dog talks, and what are those other events called?" This is what Mr. Zlatko Mateša said on the Croatian Olympic Committee's report and it is not surprising that he said that since the state budget is totaled, so for sport 150 million kuna, and I said just before that the state had allocated 407 million kuna to the construction of these facilities. We must be aware of how many sports facilities can be built with this money, sports facilities in which our children, young athletes in different areas of the Republic of Croatia, would train. And what's often mentioned here, and that's responsibility, so we can all ask ourselves, after this review, whether someone for this kind of poor assessment of building such important objects will be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3413	Thank you. We have two replicas at your hearing. The first is Honourable representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3414	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Here's to this report, since I'm going to be reporting in the wheel, I'm going to give my review, but here I think I need to react to the attempt of populism, telling stories about whether we needed sports halls, whether we needed the World Handball Championship, whether we ever needed the University, the European Athletics Championship, or anything else. We all know in the world how such manifestations are obtained and we all know that the state is involved in these activities. And also at the time these projects were built ahead of the World Handball Championship, we know what was the situation in our country, we know that there was no major economic crisis and specifically a consortium here in the city of Split that was committed to building the Spaladium arena and the accompanying contents of the IGH, Dalekovod. So they were solid, stable, developed, and we all know today what state these companies are in. In any event, I can conclude that responsibility for the failure and failure of projects in certain environments, including the city of Split, has far greater causes, therefore it has the causes of the economic crisis. We needed them, we didn't need them to discuss it. In any case, if we hadn't had this arena question, would Croatia have won a household? And the problem was here in the previous government that you yourself pointed out from 2011 to 2015 virtually did nothing to bring these arenas into full function to complete them. In particular, they can confirm to the city of Split that the state has treated the project step-by-step, that it has sought to withdraw from the project And that practically even the land she was supposed to give to the city of Split didn't give it to her. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] In any case, therefore, responsibility is much wider and the ex-post mind is always different from that moment of planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3415	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3416	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, buddy, I really didn't mention in any word whether we needed them or not. That's probably what you read from my presentation. Yeah, uh... asked the Republic of Croatia for one hall of 12,000 people, from which they could be of 5,000. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact that we built megalomanium halls is our problem, not our problem... I know something about it because I've been in handball for 20 years, and I'm very familiar with that problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't talk about whether it was a problem or not. The state audit also didn't say what time it was back then, but with everything that time was good time, it was in 2007, right? It is inadmissible that no studies of the cost-effectiveness of the Porec Hall, Split, Zadar, have been carried out, that no government opinions have been asked, that no opinions of certain agencies have been asked. So we're talking about irregularities. I didn't say if that hall was a good or bad hall. The State Audit report speaks of irregularities in the process when we set out to build these halls. It was built on the neck on the nose and we all know it here how it was built and why it was built, and... He didn't ask us to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There should have been one hall of 12,000 and this could have been the Arena Zagreb, and the other halls were enough up to 5,000 viewers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3417	Thank you. The second replica of the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Comparić Devčić, you pointed out in your presentation one of the examples, namely the Višnik Sports Centre in Zadar with the corresponding hall and closed swimming pool and pointed out that in six years, the Višnik Sports Centre provided 460 and 650 events, respectively, which, when compared to the other halls, sounds like one imponant data. I am not an expert in a part of sport like you, but I certainly know a lot about the management of city finances in the city of Zadar, so I would just like to mention that of these 650 events when you look at the little structure of these events, then you can see that it is even 469 of which is about 70% that the events relate to the sports games played by sports clubs that are permanent users of the hall that are in some way co-financed again by taxpayers' money through the city budget, 101 to other sports events, and only 80 to events that mean cultural, entertainment, business and other social events such as concerts, cultural entertainment events that bring some direct profit and direct profit. When we look at a little functioning and swimming pool management then we also see that since 187 events actually relate from 269 total 187 are water polo games again water polo club which is a permanent user of swimming pools, and just a little bit, in fact, a small part of what brings direct profits and what actually speaks of the cost-effectiveness of investment. I have nothing against, of course, improving the quality of life and by managing and offering content through these sports halls, but unfortunately, here are 6 years after their construction, we can see that these were indeed some of them monuments to individual personalities who were entering megalomanic projects that would pay the citizens of these cities for generations, and unfortunately neither present or future generations will benefit very little. That's what's sad and sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3419	Thank you. Next for the debate, I apologize, here is the distinguished representative Ana Comparić Devčić reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues I can absolutely agree with you because the problem is that these are such large halls and they cost so much to repeat again clearly it is a well-known fact that these halls would be worth 220 days. But not the users who are on the city's budgets in terms of these sports clubs, but they have to be sold 220 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3421	Thank you. Next up for discussion is the HDZ club and distinguished representative Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3422	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here's the HDZ club analyzed the revision of the efficiency of financing the construction and management of sports halls. Here I see on behalf of the Committee on Finance our colleague Goran Maric has reached a conclusion and a report. What he drew attention to is the inadmissibility that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not informed today in many things. We have already said that the arenas began to be built in 2007 for the 2009 championship, today is 2016. According to reports here, we can see the cost of each hall, the way it was built, how much it cost, the urban budgets that cost, the state budget, or all Croatian citizens. Too bad one of these reports didn't see the light the day before. Of course, this is not an observation to the State Audit, but to some other institutions, because I consider this kind of project to be this much of an asset and that we only see from the State Audit findings what it is. I think it's sad and sad and that it's one obligation in the future for us to deal in a different way with planning for anything. I remember at that time we all looked forward to and supported the project to run Croatia. Many cities, local communities did not oppose, did not fear it because they saw in the project their chance to reach their new space, new content for their urban needs, for the needs of their citizens. So, all of this should be fine if the world crisis didn't happen and those projects were over. However, I say that other international sports competitions are funded in a similar way and other facilities are also being built in a similar way. I mentioned that in the past Croatia would not be hosted by either the University or the Mediterranean Games or anything else, and we know how many and what sports facilities the towns of Split and Zagreb received thanks to the nomination for these competitions. Carefully reading the text on the report on the audit carried out may generally conclude that it is a pity that it did not come early and that we did not have this information at some other time because I believe that today we would have a different situation with sports halls. It is also a pity that in the past 4, 5 years and 6 after the end of the World Handball Championship, which was spent in the wind that year when relations could be cleared and at the time of the global financial crisis, at the time of the creation of new conditions, when contracts and agreements could be revised and new models were found to clarify relations between public-private partners and to create sound foundations for the further work of halls for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The audit says it's very good. Personally, I think it's in determining her goals that maybe in one part she could avoid generality without wanting to get into the depths and structure of the problem. Why do I say that? So here is why the report taxively cites the financial responsibilities of cities, states and partners in the audit, but I believe that there is a significant lack of quality legal opinion here on the current position of local self-government in a possible legal dispute with public-private partnerships companies or banks as lenders of this project. Furthermore, I think it is necessary to say that the time of the building of the halls has not been slowed down or questioned that we are getting a new additional value in our local communities, we are getting new resources that would improve life in these cities. Because, note, this says it's a report on sports halls. However, it is about facilities that are also used for concerts, for events, for political events, for various other events and various activities. And such facilities, such facilities, are few where they are primarily profitable but primarily serve and represent the necessary infrastructure of modern society. These are essentially facilities today that represent closed city squares that allow major events to be maintained regardless of weather conditions. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the previous government did not know what to do with the halls, so after the crisis took place, after holding the championship, the central state saw through its ministries more or less as a failed project and stopped any cash flow in that direction. With this approach, valuable time was lost for newly built objects to be placed in full social cultural function in the environments in which they were built. That's how it is, for example. in Zagreb, the Arena Center with shopping mall became a place of social events which began to visit the world's most famous stars while, for example, in Split Spaladium Arena more or less today a dead project. We all know that the city of Zagreb with an incomparably stronger budget and better management managed to put the hall into operation while Split's Spaladium Arena unfortunately remained unfinished. Next, I would point out that public halls are mostly public to private partnerships in such a way that private partners, after the economic crisis, mostly say that they have raised loans and should find their interest in long-term rent revenues, have also found themselves in big problems. We are in Split, so the company TPN Sport City, founded by the consortium after the first phase was built, ended up in pre-flight and then in bankruptcy. And we are witnessing that it was the previous state-level government of almost 40 million kuna, the euro credit obligations of the founders of TPN tried to transfer as an obligation to the city of Split budget, which the Split-City Council refused. So we've also witnessed how the government has withdrawn completely from this project on its own initiative. It is clear that the state must return to address this problem and help local communities in the long term address this issue to the benefit of all citizens. It is possible that individual halls, i.e. facilities, will not be able to service their obligations and that signed contracts and commitments will not be met. But I think that the state should help city administrations sit with them at the table, with business banks in order to reach new agreements on the long-term economic sustainability of these facilities. Therefore, if the existing wars, i.e. the anuity of their height, are to be tried to find new models together with partners, business banks with which to extend the repayment deadlines or reduce the interest rates under which banks placed funds in these projects. I find the revision so he is necessary, however, I say he is also an insufficient document which would be the basis for parliamentary representatives to discover all the causes, the emergence of all the problems that followed the construction and putting into function of sports halls. So only this time of six years confirms this thesis. For example, the review report attacks the findings of foreign consultants which predicted that commercial leases of newly built business spaces would be kept at the intended level and, on the other hand, the question of responsibility arises as to why this audit did not take place in the report on the role of certain cities that were passively observing the arrival of the crisis and the collapse of newly created assets and what they were taking. We are all witnesses to the fact that the Croatian government acted in a similar way, and there is no word about it. During this time, the previous government has seen a complete tendency to reduce the government's commitment as a partner in this project. I can conclude that I believe that a proactive approach to this problem with the state but also from certain city levels could be far better exploited by these new resources. Let's not forget building arenas in local communities the moment they started, everyone thought they'd be winning other than business banks and consortiums that fell into trouble, which financed the project. The fact is that in some cities, halls have successfully worked and performed their social, cultural and social functions until they have either worked or worked very little in some cities. I hope that this is the period ahead of us, in which the Republic of Croatia's resolute ministries and governments together with the city administrations, will not run away from the problem but will sit together at the table, find access and find answers to address these extremely complex legal and financial challenges and all together with the goal of solving the problem and putting into full function of the newly built arenas for the benefit of all our citizens. On behalf of the club, we accept this report and it is a good incentive and direction so other things should be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3423	Thank you. We have five replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3424	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of mine you've done well in the opening statement saying that it's a shame we haven't discussed this report before, but that's lucky for you. We entered the fourth week of the debate at the Croatian Parliament because we did not discuss any of your proposals except for one that was of a technical nature, which had two articles. So the question is, what are we going to do all this time? That's what's worrying today. But let's look back at this, too, just a report. You're talking about the state's irresponsibility. I'll tell you the example, because it's much better known to me, the halls, the sports halls of Vishnik and when it started to build and when we all said in the Council of Zadar that we were, but will it be worth it. No question if we need it, every city deserves it, and it really is, and the halls are pompous, they're beautiful. And is that what we can pay for? In the city of Zadar, there is no sports hall in the centre of the city of 5 secondary schools. We are talking about population policy and the depopulation of Croatia. How many kindergartens, how many mangers, how many schools could be built? Any policy that counterpart Glasovic said this morning is priority policy. What can we do at a certain point, and what is most needed? Here's to the state's relationship to the construction of Vishnik. From the State Audit, the construction of the Višnik sports hall stood at 364.5 million and was financed by the city of Zadar in which the state assigned land, i.e. co-financed construction with 100 million kuna through payment from 2008 to 2015. The area of the main hall is 6650 extras. I'm not going to name it now. The professional basis of the cost-effectiveness of the Višnik construction project has not been built. Well, that's amazing, going into a project like that without going so what happens, then the other one's responsible. There were 650 sports and other events in the hall from 2008 to 2014 including 469 events in sports games. But during that period, 24.8 million kuna revenue was realised and expenditures amounting to 155 million kuna. The town and Višnik were in debt for construction by issuing securities and taking loans, so their total borrowing amounted to 483 million kuna. Auditors found that debt costs were three times higher by issuing bonds than they were necessary And now the review says, here's half a sentence, the review estimates that the funding wasn't effective. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] It's deminutive. That's three times more paid, and why?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3425	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3426	Here is the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, I would like to start answering from the end of her line, and this is about triple, therefore, higher amounts than it was supposed to cost. I would answer that in fact the city of Rijeka that built its own hall in the seat made the hall of vertigo 160000 kunas, so most expensive according to its project, while the cheapest one was the one about Zadar of 31793 kn. So much who's economical, who's in what way he builds. And on the subject of these four weeks of new authorities and the question they presented, which they have brought here, I have also touched on this review report what you have done over four years in terms of sports arenas in the Republic of Croatia. You didn't lift your finger. So what were you doing? One big nothing, therefore this review report should be found and in this sense I have also noted that it should be included in the report and the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which this project stands for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3427	Thank you. Second replica, distinguished representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3428	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Škorić, you did everything you needed to do in 2007 and we are where we are today. Me and you are the Splits, but I am fascinated by your ease of discussing a problem that is absolutely crucial today in Split, your ease of abolising the real culprits, which is why we have a problem today and your ease of releasing the fog where the problem is. Let me read you the review report posthumously. Among other things, the audit found no cost-effectiveness study, i.e. the justification of building halls in Poreč, Split and Zadar. I don't have to go any further. And the State Audit Office gave the next recommendation, once again posthumously, because we already have a dead man. Before making a decision on projects financed by budgetary means, to develop a feasibility study, i.e. the eligibility of investments. This is the alphabet of how it's built. Unfortunately, your government, which you failed to mention in 2007, did this to us. Your town of Split and my city of Split for the next 30 years, each month a million and a half kuna must be allocated for this project, this hall you mention, 30 years a million and a half kuna. You'll be going to local elections in a year and a half as a party, maybe running for mayor as party president because it'll be someone of your own. A million and a half kuna is huge money. That's terrible! Do you know how many kindergartens that is? How many halls is that? Even let me tell you one more thing. Your local government of HDZ has signed several secret annexes with the Spaladium arena, with which we do not know today what is written and signed in them, but it is well known that they do not belong to the same city of Split, the same state you live in. So please tell us that you will support the report and remain silent when it comes to the Spaladium arena and all the halls standing in Croatia. It's the best thing you can do, because you made the mistake of everything you could have done in the first place. I'll still talk about this in the next debate, but this project when we talk, I'll only talk about Split now. This is absolutely the political responsibility of HDZ and nothing more than that Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3429	Replica reply, distinguished representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3430	Thank you very much. Here's a respected colleague, obviously you weren't at City Council meetings or following them. I'm a councilman in the City Council in this term, I've been in trouble, I've never been involved or followed or anything before. But during these four years, on several occasions, the issue of the Spaladium arena was raised, a way of resolving it was sought, encouraged from the level of local communities and by your authority to find a solution. Unfortunately, however, the Split government, your authority was at the closed door of the former Croatian government. Not that you closed the door, but you tried to get out of the whole project, you tried to transfer 40m euros to the shoulders of the citizens of the city of Split, you tried essentially everything the previous government had taken over to the shoulders of voters in the city of Split. I find that extremely inappropriate. It is inappropriate for a country or government that owns the land to refuse the land on which the Arena was built, let alone looking for a solution to complete the project. No one argues that reports, evaluations and everything else should have been made. But what does that mean? If there's no key in the lock and we take down the object? The responsible authority ends and continues where the previous one began. It ends and corrects if something was wrong. And we see that you haven't done anything in four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3431	Thank you. Third replica, the esteemed representative of Sandra Krpan.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3432	It's interesting that when you build something, then a global crisis happens, and when we're in power, then there's no global crisis, then there's honey and milk in the world and you judge the SDP government as incompetent that it wasn't or will be. And I'm afraid you won't even know how to harvest the fruits of our work. And when those halls were being built, we warned you that it was mega-projects, and today the hall in Split looks desperate. And that should have added value to my colleague, Skoric, I agree with you, but unfortunately they are not.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3433	Thank you. Reply to the replica Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3434	So here's the answer to the replica I'd like to be here if we could pick up the fruits of the work of the previous government. Unfortunately, all these fruits I think both we and Croatian citizens want to forget as soon as possible. To mention the situation and to mention the condition that you are and all the desolation that you have left behind I think it is inappropriate and that this is a whole other topic. So you can't justify four years of inaction with sports facilities, their completion in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3435	Next replica, the distinguished representative Ana Komaraić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague of yours said, former government, referring to the SDP, she didn't know what to do with the halls. Well, the state doesn't run those halls, the state is an ATM, the state was just paying for part of the contract. The halls are managed by local communities or a public-private partner with whom contracts are concluded at local level. You're saying further states need to help a local community that's in trouble because of the construction of objects like this. I can partly agree with you, but my next question is what are we going to do with those facilities that were building units of local self-government with no help from the state and that are paying their fees neatly? Will these units of local self-government also assume the obligation to pay credit? No, because those units are neat, those units worked well. Dude, we can't act like this. These are taxpayers' money for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And when you mentioned earlier the Center Zamet, so it's the Center Zamet, it's not the Zamet Hall, the Zamet Centre is costing 160 million kuna, but the Zamet Hall costs 98 million kuna. And for your information, the total number of days of use of that hall is 380 days and about 3000 hours a year, respectively. And we're proud of that hall. I know that HDZ explained to us in the City Council that we are unable to build one such project as Split is building, as Zadar is building but today I am happy that we do not have this object. Our facility is used by children of that city, athletes of that city for free. Our clubs don't pay for that gym's hour. These facilities are operational, and these facilities of yours are closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3437	Replica reply, distinguished representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3438	Thank you very much. Here you are challenging me to start defending your power in one part of the city of Split, so other arenas have a certain number of days when the halls are free of charge for some general useful facilities, sports events in which the city has an interest. However, when I asked the question, or when you suggest why the state would care for these halls, it should worry for the simple reason that billions have fallen into these halls and that the state does not care or care about how it ends. As for the Rivers, I congratulate you on your results and your achievements. I believe the previous government for Rijeka has done a lot. Which unfortunately cannot be said for Split despite the fact that we had all the power of ministers originating in Split-Dalmatia County, including the prime minister, nearly half the government. And Split felt in nothing that he had his power at the state level.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3439	Thank you. The last replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3440	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Mr. Representative, I'm just going to say that the audit was done correctly, it's all clear here. We see the financial effects of business. But many did not mention clearly the construction models of these facilities, and that was a public-private partnership. So, the public and private relationship. What was the contract? What was the deal? And these unquality agreements have led to a bad business effect. So it happened in many places. And you might think it wasn't done by modeling and building a public-private partnership as much as these objects would stand and cost. We know how the halls were done somewhere where there was no public private partnership and how much they cost and the ones where they were made by the green field model. A new investment, as much as it cost, how much manipulation there was. Of course, the last government was a global crisis and could not be built. And you might think it was built without a public private partnership model. How much would it cost, then, not the state, but the Croatian people? Thank you very much. ... Don't tell me, I know it very well. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I know stadiums, I know pools, I know everything, I know how much it costs, I don't mention it, but you don't know, so you're talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3441	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3442	Well, here's an esteemed representative I'd answer, of course from the local prism that it was crazy to refuse something when the government half co-financed you. And the second thing, the public private partnership, we had, at that moment, is specifically in the city of Split the consortium of the three then strongest companies in Croatia, building IGH, Dalekovod and Constructor. And what happened today, these companies almost don't exist anymore. And who's to blame? Are we going to look for the culprit or are we going to look for a solution or are we going to look for a way to complete the Split Spaladium centre? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3443	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Appreciative Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3444	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the rapporteur, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. Here's another one of those audits you've done well, maybe a little late, and it's a little late. on the agenda, it was supposed to be in previous mandates and here we see that the debate went on who's to blame, so I don't see why colleagues who were then in power during Eve Sanader don't admit that they were doing some kind of temples that weren't costing our children what they didn't have, which we don't have, which is what centralized means all the funds for those halls in certain centers, border areas, children still playing on the backs, uncontrollably. And, of course, colleagues from the left over the last four years may have been able to say that a colleague of the MRC may have come to life. We're talking today about an MRC that costs billions of kuna a year to our cities, municipalities and the entire state. So this is a serious topic and, gentlemen, once you stop with the historical facts, that should be explored. Those who should investigate, and these are the DORH and other institutions that are competent in this country for what has been done, not a mistake, this is the disaster of the 20th century as far as Croatian peoples are concerned because it pays ultimately Croatian people. Or doing some projects and handball objects is nice, our sport is nice, we all love it, I mean, we all cheer up and we can't wait to repeat something like that. But to build as I said to the temples to destroy essentially the sport, mostly amateuric, development of sports in the border areas or rural areas outside these centers that we have in Croatia is a disaster. It's a disaster. Imagine the damage that has been done to all generations raised in schools without halls, present generations or today, as a colleague from SDP said earlier that there are huge, huge costs for these inefficient and inefficient sports halls both below where I am in Split and let's say in Sinj there are not enough halls. That's the tomb down there, Peter. So we have a tomb that now stands there, springs from nothing, planfully unedited, hangs art in my Split, which is a tourist town where tourism should be presented. So... The temples for great leaders, not for sport to get the dimension it should have and be worldly, the handball to be done in the world championship and to be cheered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the system isn't working. Or something to do without calculating the cost of the basic document, if something is worth it, it is a knife in the back of the Croatian people, our children to our future. The development of a very important segment, it's sport, sport mostly among the youngest. So now to discuss whether they're more left or right than time to see what happened to this MRC. In the future, who's going to answer, what are the institutions that were supposed to do for this crime, because something is working this way, it's a crime, I don't know which, whether it's a robbery, I don't know what way or different to describe it. If we're doing something, we haven't done anything, it's worth it to us and it's billions. It's hard... calculate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The audit, as it has so far, has generally done its job in quality with its capacities. But the only question is that it comes down here for discussion. Now to quote this all that my colleagues have said before, so also the HDZ club and the SDP club, I agree, so basically that's what we find, I have in front of me not to repeat myself, not to take up time, here is the most important meaning, and what we repeat at the Most Independent Lists Club is every time after each revision, in this case primarily. For those who are responsible and who lead these projects and facilities should come and answer here at least to the MPs and not that they may now be calmly looking at the screen or I don't know where they are walking, this is not interesting to them and in fact they brought Croatian sport with these projects. The infrastructure for the development of Croatian sport, because surely in some rural areas some children who are talented cannot get the possibility of a gym sport to train at all because of this and perhaps they would, perhaps, have played for the Croatian team and have not at all been given the opportunity to have a parquet to play. So, this is a huge damage not only of money, but of destroying generations of students to train, first of all to engage in sports plus those who have the means of talent they could develop, they won't be able to develop it. That's what I'm saying, the Dalmatian Zagora, the mountain cotter, all these backdrops of these where you built these temples or tombs. Now I don't know what I'd call it if you weren't angry, 'cause this kind of money is embarrassing. Until they come to you here at least to give us a word that made it illegal, but if we don't have the basic documents, if this government hasn't been familiar with us for years, then they've been familiar with what we're talking about. It's someone spending money like that on his chateau,... An apology when he says his father's budget is up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is embarrassing, and I'd like to ask you not to talk too much about guilt anymore, admit we're guilty, the great leader has ordered it. These villages on the left of my colleagues might have been able to make some kind of resuscitation. Most likely not, as the audit report shows that the government's lack of information remains. The basic problem and the key is the DORH. They have drawers in which this paper that you're delivering, I guess you'll have to deliver it to them if there are irregularities and let them do their job. Although the damage is enormous, our generations are lost, some have strayed, perhaps not engaged in sports in smaller places and in the wrong direction. Once again, the MOST Club will support this and once again your report and I call on the institutions to work and do their job and to see who is responsible for this 20th century disaster such as sports halls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3445	Thank you. Here's four replicas. The first one is President Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3446	Well, I've been thinking for a while, although I haven't heard of this, and especially Vishnik for a long time, and when I was a town councilwoman, I've been doing something better and a better debate on this, as my colleague Bulj said. These projects show, not now, what happened no longer can be fixed, but that it's some kind of vision. All who have done so and in such a way as not to repeat it again, for it is a matter of total irresponsibility. It's society, not responsibility, but no responsibility. Then who was in power? We can do that, too, now, it's constantly, I think it's being asked by colleagues who shouldn't be referring to you as a colleague Bulj not asking a question. Because during the construction of these halls, the prime minister was a conte of Remetinco. So everything happened in the meantime. Which is, there's no cost-effectiveness study for so huge. So what country, is there such America, is there such a power in the world that goes into projects like this without a cost-effectiveness plan? And you know in the City Council when we went into this project who isn't for this is against Zadar. The cost-effectiveness study was a question, whether Zadar deserved it or not. Well, of course we all deserve it. But who's gonna pay for it? And that's what your colleague Bull is saying. And then we'll build, let the state co-finance it. The state is in a concrete example of Zadar and co-financed, yet still a bottomless hole. We will eventually have to give some of these halls to someone for the kuna in order to manage it because they have become a stone around the neck of city budgets and citizens who no longer have those basic social messages and functions that they must have as local communities. That's a big problem. Let's ask the question of responsibility all that was, to move on some basic things in advance, to move forward the common, basic question of responsibility. If we don't need something, we certainly need it, but if we can afford it, what's the priority? It's a question of all policy issues that we can. Well, we can't as irresponsible parents. Buy Mercedes, and kids don't have bread and milk, 'cause that's how it was done. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3447	Thank you. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3448	Thank you very much. My colleagues... asks a question mostly, what you said was vision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I answered, I said how to proceed. So first you admit the mistakes, the mistakes are so that they don't get lost in the debate. So we'd talk a lot more when you said the vision yourself. The vision is what we have now, it's catastrophic. So that's the first one. The other is responsibility, someone is responsible, so individually, who served the great leader at that time or later, I have no idea. But mostly some kind of responsibility exists. Secondly, it's very important to say once again this is a disaster of the century. Generations, generations, generations have lost right in the edges of these cities that you've led to have at all the conditions to play handball, basketball, even to see the parquet. And those kids ended up knowing what kind of roads they went because they couldn't engage, and they had talent. So I agree with you in this section that you should stop, admit mistakes and say how to proceed. So, just that vision of what these projects have. Thank you very much, there are those who are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3449	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Marijan Kustic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3450	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, so here's Mr. Bully finely referred this all out, this debate about the hall, the building of the hall, and surely this revision that she did should have done this a long time ago, and I'm sure maybe today we wouldn't be discussing this. And I would go back to a colleague of Skoric's who I think is visible in his report that he said there were mistakes and that no one escapes and now there's no need to move the ball to each other, but to solve the problems and end those halls that are not finished because it's the interest of all of us. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3451	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3452	I agree with my colleague, but the debate is going the wrong way, and they're starting to transfer who's to blame. So you have to admit the guilt in which time it happened and when and when it meant no basic documents, no cost-effectiveness study. So now we have something that's ineffective, which costs today. So we still pay for that ineffectiveness today. Now it's time to look at the situation, but admit it's a mistake. Well, no one here can do it. We're all saints here. The hareoles are on our heads. Who's going to throw a stone in here to sanctify it? So mistakes are admitted but this is a catastrophic mistake in general for Croatian sport. Development, mostly sports infrastructures. I don't want to elaborate now, but sports infrastructure, my colleague said just now, 880 elementary schools have no conditions for gym sports. So, when it's a bad time, they can mean in the classroom, I guess, or I don't know how to play sports. So it's a huge mistake, mostly towards the youngest. And I agree with what you said to break up, to go means forward to be seen but a mistake has to be admitted and someone has to answer. And these are the institutions that should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3453	Wow. Next replica, distinguished representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3454	Thank you very much. Here's a respected representative of Mir Bull for two things I'd like to replicate. The first is therefore nowhere I have said that it is only this or that power but that responsibility extends through one and the other power. I would react to the conclusion that Split's Spaladium Arena is now a ruins or that it will become a ruins. I don't think that's an actual condition. Today, we would not talk about the Split arena in this light if the second part of the project had been completed, so that the business centre annex of the Split arena would certainly be both very successful and profitable and could be financed from these business activities that would be located in the centre. And as for the arena itself, I am extremely pleased with the way it was built. Here I was since engaged and at the World Handball Championship I can say that on the inside it may be one of the most beautiful arenas in Croatia and it is not built only for the needs of Split but for the whole of Dalmatia, the entire environment. So the city of Split is gravitating almost a million inhabitants, and as another Croatian city, I think it should have ambition to have such facilities and spaces that it can organize something in its area for all the inhabitants who are gravitating it. It cannot be seen purely from the prism of the administrative borders of the city of Split. So I don't think it's a project that's a wreck, nor should it become a ruin. That is why I point out this issue by encouraging the current Croatian government to help resolve this issue rather than to have the Split arena bear the epithet of ruins.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3455	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Ana Komaraić Devčić. ... You didn't answer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3456	You may not be pleased with me, Mr. Vice President, but it will be correct. So the Split arena is effective and should it be this big? You are sure that the cost-effectiveness study is precisely to be in this framework and whether they are paying for it now and today, the citizens of Split in a way that they pay for, they are squirming in problems and this hall is now still in trouble, inexplicable, ineffective. Because that's what the State Audit showed, that's not what Miro Bulj invented. Secondly, how will you explain an example of a school in Sinjska zazaj, Cetina or Zadarski that this hall is made and that it is inefficient, that not so much capacity is needed... How are you going to explain that to those kids now? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How will you explain it? ... You're even laughing at how a child on Velva won't even see a parquet until he's 15 years old but will come and watch one game or one concert a year. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's more serious than you think. So, these halls were missing, they were supposed to be handballed, but their cost-effectiveness and efficiency were missed because the temples of the great leaders were being built and as he spoke, so it was done. And that's something to say once. Without any documents showing anything that's worth it, it's a big investment. Today they suffer from generations and will suffer from such things as I said the disaster of the 20th century and, above all, sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3457	Here is the distinguished representative Ana Comparić Devčić next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bulj, you said a line that said, "The children in the edge areas have lost their ability to play sports." So you mentioned the mountain cotar, the hinterland of Split, Zadar, etc. I mention the islands here, we can't forget about the islands, it's just that it's a very bad situation. Not that they've lost their ability to play sports. I will repeat again in the replica to you so that since 878 home schools 120 there is still no hall, and out of the 1035 district schools 1000 has no hall. So when you do a nice calculation, then you realize how few children today in the Republic of Croatia have a gym to perform physical and health culture. Responsibility, you have often mentioned that word of responsibility. I say responsibility by 2030 because by then we'll be paying these loans. Who is responsible for the 20th century disaster? I'll give you a brief answer as to who the finance ministers were and who the prime minister was. Minister of Finance Schuker and Prime Minister Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3459	Answer, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3460	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for the facts you presented earlier. I did not mention this second part of the district schools that are also very important and that may be even more difficult because they are more ruby. So they're probably more borderline than these central schools. But I do know the meaning of Sinj, the cetin end, and the quaint end, that part where I live, surely the islands are one big problem that we mention very little. They're isolated and traffic endings, that part where I live, surely islands are one big problem that we don't mention very much. They are isolated and busy, because when we follow that drawer an even less possibility they can’t possibly train very often and go to the Split Arena or Zadar Arena, as my colleague told me just before, that a piece from Sinj will go to that hall. So it might be worth thinking about, but unfortunately, as soon as I can solve this MRC problem. How? We need to see a vision, agree together and, of course, move towards the resolution of sports infrastructure in all these areas and find the possibility that even though this sports hall for handball championships that are needlessly outside the gauges have caused major problems regarding the development of sports, the worst part is that we are losing it is generations that have lost their right as well as other children in other cities to deal with sport and similar activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3461	The next debate is the individual distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. We find he's lost the right to argue. Followed by distinguished representative Mario Kristic, an individual debate. Maro, I'm sorry. Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3462	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to express my regret that there may be ten percent of the MPs in the debate on such an important topic. I would like to say that when the state enters such a large infrastructure project, which, apart from the construction of the highway, is the biggest failure, unfortunately, in the history of the Croatian state. Then a strategic study at the level of the entire country needs to be carried out to look at the total capacities of tourism, management and ine capacities that should be answered whether it made any sense to accept the organisation of such a handball championship and whether these were such objects as we now have. I would agree with the finding that the future of our young generations has been stolen especially in small municipalities and cities that have no fiscal capacity. Comparing the value of investment in halls where various European and world championships took place, I came to the conclusion that the value lost in this large investment that would cost Croatian citizens more than two billion kunas could be built 300 assembly halls in the areas of municipalities and cities, while accepting the organisation of the European Championship and meeting all the criteria for its maintenance. Unfortunately, crying for spilled milk makes no sense. I think we should all turn around and make affirmative suggestions on how to capitulate organisations, or governing bodies that manage these halls, which unfortunately are completely ineffective, which simply do not have enough events that happen to them to cover their basic needs to cover the cost of energy products. Here in this sense, I think we should all think that at one of the future meetings of the Croatian Parliament we should even dedicate thematical one time in which we will make some concrete suggestions in order to resolve this damage, reduce it to a smaller level, more appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3463	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3464	Well, that's the real question of whether it made sense. These are halls, they're beautiful halls, say, in Zadar when you get here. Is that what we can afford at that particular moment, especially in addition to the fact that it was new, and it wasn't in the beginning that there were sports halls for children in schools who needed it because here all the children paid, nothing is free. But you see, we have a big problem here, especially in the city of Zadar, where many studies have been done, and for some of the buildings that are known to be never built, and for what is going to be built, we don't have a study. Is that absurd? But why wasn't there a study here? Well, that's not an accident, because it's known in every study how much it's going to cost, how long it's going to last, and in what time and what quality it's going to take. We, in general, did four calculations, couldn't figure out what the total costs were because the roof had collapsed, so it had to be done again, so the tiles in the pool broke, so it had to be re-adhesive, and it all happened every so little. So, the question of responsibility for managing the funds. If this is also an example to learn from it, unfortunately we learn from the mistakes and the English in Oxford, but good and that's a little more expensive. But if we learn from this that the management of the funds requires responsibility, then these funds will always be for those most needed things, and that's what we women and colleagues of the SDP talked about this morning, and that's the ultimate policy not as a measure, but as a country's defence policy in peace for survival. Because the land here will be inhabited by someone, but it won't be us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3465	Thank you. Replication response, Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3466	As far as I absolutely agree with your presentation, however, I would not be sure that we will learn from this because there were very similar things and events in the history of the Croatian state, so we have not learned from them. We will learn only the moment when those who were truly responsible for this robbery, because generations and generations have been robbed, and it is known where it is answered and what is being done in modern-day democratic countries that such people go to prison and serve appropriate penalties there. Unfortunately, that's not happening with us, so we can do some damage. There is no responsibility, and unfortunately I can conclude that if we have a chance to make a similar mistake again, it is likely that we will be able to process those who have been working for years of crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3467	The next replica, the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3468	Dear MPs and MPs, Mr Kristic said that it was questionable whether Croatia needed such a big sports event. So we see that in the world whenever it happens and some big sports happens that there are great lobbyings that certain countries or groups of states are organizing these competitions. And I think it was a great honor for Croatia to organise this World Handball Championship and that it was also in a certain way a major promotion of the Republic of Croatia. And it should be said that not only are the revenues in the halls of tickets, sales and leases but also indirect revenues from the sale of hotels, highways, tolls, fuel and the like. Of course I agree with the predecessors that you need every kuna before you invest it three times over and see what's most rewarding. And I can see that no cost-effectiveness studies have been made here because there were certain deadlines in which the halls had to be built. They made that toy. Of course there are mistakes today, so I ask when will be the final sports hall in Babina Greda, why the construction has been cut off, why the contractor has been re-elected, because it is obvious that there have been some mistakes in the design, in the contracting and financial amounts planned for this hall. So we can't just call one and keep quiet about our failures. And what was said here is that the city of Rijeka or I don't know what other environments can pay the hall for their children to use the halls for free. Unfortunately, these municipalities, cities in Slavonia cannot because the Ministry of Education reduces funding for material costs every year and we cannot give free halls but we must cover at least material costs. And the key question is why it hasn't been negotiated through... rural development through the policy of even regional development, not a single possibility to negotiate the financing of sports halls for primary and secondary schools through European funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm called daily by the commissioners where they're going to run for their projects and have a building permit and an environmental impact study and a feasibility study and they have no place to run for their projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3469	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3470	My dear colleague, I also agree with your presentation. However, at no point in my life and as someone who is actually an active athlete and part of his life was also professionally engaged in sports, I did not question whether the World Handball Championship was supposed to be held in Croatia at all. Of course you should have. However, I asked the dimension of these facilities and the costs that were incurred and just the study we were talking about. Normal countries that normally approach problems of doing strategic studies, building facilities that are environmentally efficient and which can be exploited in an appropriate manner that guarantees sustainability and which do not produce additional costs. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we have made a huge tragedy, and that is why this situation is happening to you that our halls in the local community remain incomplete because there is simply no money in the budgets either at national, regional or local level. In addition, negotiations and the possibility of using European funds did not allow the financing of sports infrastructure so that we can hardly count on European money, but on building a sports infrastructure with modest money available to the Croatian state and units of local and regional self-government, which is further mutilated by this great tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3471	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3472	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed gentlemen representatives of the state audit. First of all, I thank you for your quality and exhaustive work, which actually gives an x-ray accurate view of everything that has happened in the Republic of Croatia and is related to the construction of sports halls. I think that really through this your report is in a very transparent and laika clear way to find answers to questions whether all the necessary evaluations and analysis of the economic viability of the construction of sports halls have been carried out to build these existing sports facilities. Similarly, we can get answers to questions whether obligations are carried out in accordance with the concluded contracts, whether sports halls are managed in an efficient and economically viable manner, whether activities are carried out with a purpose of improving the business of sports halls and whether activities are controlled over the management and operation of sports halls. In my individual presentation, I will stick to that sports object which is actually closest to me and which is also contained in your report, that is, I am already in replicas in some way looking at some segments of the construction of the Višnik Sports Centre in Zadar. And from your report it is fully evident that certain objections are seen, i.e. opinions and recommendations for further interventions in this area of the construction of sports or any other infrastructure but for more efficient management of the existing facility. As for building the very hall in Zadar, therefore the complex of the Vishnik Sports Centre, which includes a closed pool, a sports hall and an energane so far, has been built. What's quite clear are these conclusions. That the professional basis of the construction project was never built, that revenue of €24.8 million was realised in the period 2008-2014 and expenditure in the same period was 155 million. Furthermore, the city and the company of the Sports Centre of Vishnik were committed to building a hall, i.e. by issuing securities and taking loans totalling 483.2 million kunas, and that the costs of debt and bonding were even three times higher than the costs that would have been incurred to go to classical lending. All of this together points to only one part of me to say the existing problem but gives indications to us who know the situation in the city of Zadar and that these opinions of the State Audit could be put aside again in a very short time, completely oust and continue again with this kind of funding attempt. What's this about? It is clear that the citizens and citizens of the city of Zadar will ultimately cost as much as 458 million 469 thousand and 665 kuna, which is the cost you stated. So the costs of building a hall, energy and indoor pool are 346,4 million, but if we add all the funding costs to them, such as interest on bonds and credit, we come right up to this amount. So almost half a billion kunas to be allocated, so what citizens are paying for this project. And there, we've had opportunities to hear it before, it started with the principle of taking or issuing bonds per model... Which assumes the payment of the principal at the expense of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For years, the city of Zadar paid only one million euros in annual bond interest issued or in some way credited by the Hypo Bank to raise a second loan to another bank in 2011 so that Hypo Bank could repay the principal. And so in 2011, we re-indebted 139 million kuna to return to the capital of city bonds. That debt will come back and come back, but it's been imagined to be back for seven years. For the past three years, let's just say the indicative images run out of the budget will amount to 3.2m euros to pay off this principal. Then the question arises why didn't that loan be taken immediately? Why have interest payments been paid for years, and why have the citizens been additionally in debt? And I support Mr. Bulj's position, who said that the revision did its job in a very good way. However, there are institutions that need to deal with such matters. Why are some things, or some real costs, that should have occurred, why they are overpaid, why citizens are repeatedly in debt if, in some more realistic contexts, it could have been the same in the same range, much cheaper and more rationally, actually funded and secured. So what happens now? So from your report your recommendation is very clear. That, prior to the construction of other planned facilities of the Višnik sports centre, there should be an analysis of the costs of construction, equipment and maintenance of the facility and information on sources and costs of financing, as well as of the effects to be achieved by building the facilities. Before new borrowings, they shall analyse the financial market, make the necessary assessments and choose lower-cost borrowing forms and, when looking for a source of funding for future projects, focus on loans and support from state, international financial institutions such as HBOR, EU funds in order to achieve more favourable funding conditions both for the city of Zadar and for the commercial society, the sports centre Višnik. So these are the recommendations to those two institutions. In their opinion, too, they manifested themselves to be aware of this. However, here next Wednesday at the City Council we have a agenda point that we downloaded two months ago, so our initiative and the Council of Youth Action, they go quickly again into new investments on the same one, I'm not going to say on that facility, but on that part of unbuilt land with new investments that we don't even know how much they're going to cost, for which there is no cost study, there aren't any financial bases that should indicate so the first thing that's going to work there. So, citizens don't even know what an idea project is, which they should have, in which direction it will contribute to the development of sports, health and other tourism, which is going to be given by Zadar school students, which is going to be one of the Zadar recreationals. There is no price known, there is no idea where this should be financed, and in fact it is very sad story that a serious institution such as the State Audit Institute or the State Audit Institute, which is particularly important for this city, but also for the purposeless spending of the money from the sold apartments, was not directed, they were wasted without purpose. So for years, the State Audit has been quality and responsible for doing its job, giving opinions, giving recommendations. They are officially shown to accept this, that they will implement proposals in future actions, however, their immediate hand continues to go in its direction. I don't know in what way, I think we'll insist on it and we've already insisted that indeed, we don't mind further building the infrastructure in that area along this pool, along this sports hall, along with the energane. We also know what was imagined by an initial project to be a hotel there and to be a football stadium or not a football stadium it's now some new idea to build a football stadium in the heart of the city. I mean, it's out of my mind. But that's what we get to hear only from the media that's blowing up some information in the crowd. However, what we are particularly concerned about and what we are going to insist on is this very opinion of you, this recommendation of yours. We believe that this is the only way to manage taxpayers' money rationally, planically, strategically. Of course, by investing again in the content that will eventually be in the interest of this community again. I just wanted to point out that, unfortunately, despite your high quality and dedicated work, some of you are re-established by local sheriffs above each law, above any expert opinion, working on their own and simply immediately on that hand and continuing on their own. That's too bad, because that's how you just throw shadows and some good projects that might be adopted by some consensus to tell the citizens, look, you're going to have to set it aside, so much and so much resources, for your sake and for that. Declar on it either with a referendum or in another way to the public stands. And have full consensus support and work in the interest of the city along with everyone Here, I apologize, Vice President, I'm done. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3473	Thank you. Four replicas to your exposure. The first is the honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3474	Thank you very much. My colleagues from Zadar I think you're coming, I see that the most yearning of the city of Zadar, everything we've built needlessly. For what? What do we need, what's that even for? When the sports event comes, everyone in the gambling uniform or some local club jersey and let's all go to that gym. These are levels unfortunately this is here today below some level I expected but good. Yesterday, HZ CARGO Infrastructure, hundreds of millions of girls, don't need a revision of anything, let it be quiet out there in the DORH and put it somewhere, so if it'll react some reaction but here they all have to, which we're going to do now. The state wanted, wanted to help local self-government, gave them local self-government to manage these halls. They were built, how many events? Here I read here, only in Zadar 650, 3 times more than in all others in Zagreb, Poreč, Osijek, etc., but it bothers. Why? And what does SDP mean in Zadar? Nothing. What does he need there anyway? How much money they spend on election processes and I can't have a mayor, I can't manage that city. What's the difference? Well, the difference is that HDZ works there and builds and Zadar builds the world's first destination. Probably this Vishnik and the recent atmosphere of 9,000 people in the hall, the Zadar-Cedevita Cup finals. Well, I suppose Mrs. Ingrid and the other lady can explain to the Zadrans what this hall means to them. They can't understand. And you're talking about the cost of infrastructure. This is one particular question, not only in terms of sports facilities but all infrastructure objects. And this is how he talks about the level of ignorance of the problem. Then why do we need all the pyramids? Arena in Pula, so imagine that work a long, long, long time ago how invaluable it was. Well, these are buildings built to last for decades, dear gentlemen. The local self-government must come up with a way to manage them but the state has given its share and will give because we need these objects. And God gave us both in football and in some other sports such objects for which we had more times good, worldly and European events than we had until then. But while some people understand... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3475	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3476	You put something in my mouth I didn't say. I didn't say it was unnecessary to build a hall but I said it was too expensive. And that's not what I said, that's what the state's audit said, that by taking state bonds was paid three times more expensive than the city of Zadar credited in classic debt. That's the first one. Secondly, your thesis that the SDP can't have a mayor, so maybe it stands but it can have a mayoral office and you'll probably testify very quickly to that. And thirdly, since you were Secretary of State at the Ministry of Zadar Mayor, you are very familiar with the model of managing taxpayers' money so that I understand this exposure even in one part as a particular conflict of interest because by defending this kind of funding and three times more expensive financing of something that can be three times cheaper we've been paid to enjoy and observed from your ministry of the sea, the sky and the country, so you're probably through the alibi of defending such waste, which you absolutely don't need, and maybe there are some other actions that you need to deal with some other institutions to defend that part of your history that you might forget today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3477	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Lucian Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3478	Thank you, Vice President. So I'm this, I've been listening to this whole story all along and I've been thinking whether to take it or not, but I have to turn the saw upside down a little bit, too. Since our colleague who isn't here right now, I see she's out, Devcic, I have to tell you the same story about the city of Rijeka and the way these grand halls are financed. Let's say, it's a great honor for this report, but I hope that once it reaches the river, and that these local sheriffs will also respond in a way that needs to be answered. The Zamet Hall was built, when a large hall was to be built, a small hall costing 165 million kuna. That 165 million kuna, and it wouldn't have been so bad if it hadn't been taken on leave. So this hall, these same citizens of the city of Rijeka, costs 370 million kuna. 370 million kuna, that's 25 years of leasing, a year 14.4 million kuna or 1.2 million kuna per month. That hall in Zameta has 2300 seats. 2300 seats are not enough for any more serious world event, not to say that in 2014 the IHF refused the championship to play there at all because it was too small a hall. The Vishnik Hall cost 200 million kunas with 9200 seats. 9200 seats. So, this whole story really doesn't make any sense unless it's real to those local cowboys who care about tails and this local cowboy who's been running our territory for the last 20 years seems like our citizens aren't enough to show these results but to attack what's being made for twice as much money and three times as big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3479	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3480	A respected colleague, apart from being rudely abused by the Rules of Procedure, in fact, through a replica by trying to diphrase in any way an object in Rijeka, which I absolutely didn't touch in my presentation, obviously you didn't learn anything from your colleagues mostly from this right part, to me left and to Mr. Vice-President of the right part of this hall who simply left most of the assembly on this point, I guess realizing that a large part of the responsibility goes somewhere and to that government that started this project. And I join those who gave you a well-intentioned college advice so that HDZ would really be the smartest person to support, accept this report, and that as little as possible say that I don't say harsher to keep my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3481	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3482	My colleagues, I think we are all aware, even from your debate, and especially from the replicas you have, there is still one great powerful mythology of sport in Croatia. And when we talk here, when you point so clearly at what the audit has shown, ineffectiveness, what our colleague first faced with this problem, Lovrinovic says I remained shocked that such halls were built without an economic study, without a study of economic viability. But what we're witnessing and what you're talking about is that in the city of Zadar, where bonds have been paid three times and were more expensive than credit debt, with all that's happened before, that's all it says is what you know about, and I want to share here with all of you why you do it when we ask them in the City Council. Well, we're working because it always works. And in vain you colleagues used to say, I, for years down in the City Council, you still and there and here you, Mr. Auditor. They work because that's how they can work, and that's how they like to do it, not because they don't know how to pay for the study. Because I already said in prison there have been studies for buildings that will never be built or maybe in 50, 100 years when they will be obsolete. They're paid, they're standing in drawers. And for what's being built and what's going to be built and it's starting to be built, there's no need for studies. Because the study shows deadlines, time and money, and they don't like to know how long something's gonna last, what quality it's gonna be. It's the only rule known to performers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3483	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3484	Dear colleagues of Antičević Marinović, you said that, yes, you were right when you said that halls were being built in this famous way, noting that the only thing that was known then were actually performers. But what worries me is that in Zadar, in particular, it intends to continue with that lead. Therefore, do not respect the absolute opinion and recommendations of the State Audit, which has made it nice to say that, in the future infrastructure construction of infrastructure projects, interventions in this area should in fact know the cost-effectiveness studies that would give a very clear picture and financial, and also the purpose of which would be to whom it is being built, what is the cost-effectiveness of the project, etc. I sincerely hope that it will prevail at the end of reason, we will fight further in the City Council and on Wednesday to again, may succeed in that since the mayor and last time he tried so quickly to push those five points of the agenda, that if at least not then heeding the opinion of the State Audit and going further of course with this project, but going in one far more responsible, more systematic way where he will include the citizens, where everything will be public, open and transparent. If a project is good and if a project goes in the interest of a wider social community I don't see things trying to be implemented and implemented under the grain, I don't really see any reason for it if the intentions are positive and good. I believe they are and that some will regain consciousness and say again if they don't listen to us because they always add to that some sort of notion that it's political battles, and that they will really listen, that is to say, to these recommendations of the State Audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3485	Thank you. Last replica, the distinguished representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3486	Here's the Honorable Vice President. It wasn't a replica. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Article 232. Therefore, if the speaker moves away from the agenda theme, the chairman will warn him to stick to the agenda point. The Honorable representative, Glasovac, through her exhibition, devoted more than half of the space to topics that have nothing to do with the agenda point, about the city of Zadar, about building some infrastructure facilities, about selling apartments. It was more like discussing the report on the revision of the work of the City Administration of Zadar, not sports halls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3487	Next up for debate, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3488	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues. According to the State Audit report, we have paid too much for a sports event, and the construction lobby has earned good money at the event. The construction of 6 halls for the 2009 World Handball Championship, which took place in 2009 cost us 277m euros. And we will pay 581 million euros through this long-term payment. No one questioned whether we needed this, whether we needed these mega-projects, and today we're counting and thinking about how we're going to first maintain these facilities, how we're going to pay for energy in these facilities, and how we're going to start resuscitating them because it's already been six years since that time. So, half a billion euros for halls that can't even pay directorial expenses today. However, when it was decided at that time whether we needed those halls, no one should have asked Ivo Sanader if it was to be built, did we need it, especially when it was united with the local sheriffs and decided to build these large halls on a proposal from the Croatian Handball Union with an explanation that we must be happy to build it, that it is an honor of the organisation of the European Handball Championship. However, when we take a closer look at who earned that look, and how was it built? Most of these facilities were built by a public-private partnership. So there's a construction lobby and a political lobby. Some facilities are going into construction without the eligibility of investments being found at all. At that time, however, everything could have been done. A decision was made at a higher level where a narrow circle of people of power could decide and athletes were just a folklore to implement those decisions. And finally we got the facilities in some cities, let's say the type of Zagreb was meant to make such an object because 40 years back was the last object made of Dom sports. For example, in Split, a fellow representative from Split said the facility was well-planned but not completed. I agree that it is not finished, but it is a question of the capacitation of the facility when we had two halls built, and we needed only 5,000 people in Split for the purposes of the championship because we should have had one large hall of 15,000 and another halls of 6,000. The second thing that bothers me in this review report is that, let's say, in Zadar, the bonds were three times more expensive than the credit, the debt per loan. So that's a question for the DORH. Then I could still accept this construction adventure that the cost of construction was more real but not maybe two and somewhere and three times more expensive. So this review opened our eyes so that we wouldn't make similar mistakes in the future and not be wasteful, but rather make studies, assess whether any type of hall infrastructure project needed a local self-government unit and whether this unit would manage to build and maintain it on a longer period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3489	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3490	Thank you very much. Here's an esteemed representative, Davor Penic, for a few things I'd like to replicate in his presentation. First of all, on several occasions you mentioned the European Handball Championship, it's not European, it's global. You were talking about the plan and the evaluations that Split needs and what it doesn't need. So, I respect and respect Zadar, for two years I have lived and lived in Zadar and I am glad that Zadar has a sports hall but I think that as a city that is much bigger than Zadar, it is not appropriate for you to determine the number of places and bring it down to the 5000 frames because we know that the town of Split already has one hall so big, hall of Gripa. We are not just talking about a hall for the needs of the city of Split, but about the entire area that is gravitating the city of Split. When you talk about a construction lobby that has well earned both construction and politicalally, we have seen how both the construction and the political lobby ended. So, in all those parts, I deny you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3491	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3492	We know where the construction lobby is in bankruptcy, and we know where the political lobby got out of jail, we know that. As far as I'm concerned, I'm a Split diet and I know the problem well, I grew up in Split, and I know when the Mediterranean Sports Games in Split were organized that big hall was built. Split already had two halls at the time. There are two large halls in the Grips. So we didn't need such a big hall if we couldn't finance it. Perhaps this project is ultimately, it is now hypothetical, perhaps it would have been good if it had been completed as Arena Zagreb had had a garage of 1500 seats, had it had a shopping mall, had it had the lease of space to cover it. At this stage, however, it is a burden for the city of Split's budget. That's what you were talking about. And now we need to find the opportunity to finish this project. But is there any interest now, whether there is this public-private interest, obviously it doesn't exist because these construction firms themselves have said you have shut down unfortunately all of us. But I don't see a solution to this project without a broader debate and a wider debate in principle to re-evaluate feasibility and cost-effectiveness and to go into the project first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3493	Thank you. Next debate, individual and respected representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues when we talk about the audit that was made and when we talk about the hall in Split, about the Spaladium arena, it's basically done to you like when you have a dead man's body on the street and the coroner comes and concludes that the person is dead. In your audit, you've really concluded something exactly like that when it comes to the Spaladium arena. However, some other institutions need to conclude the reasons why this person is dead and how it was found where it was found. Now, when an ordinary citizen of the Republic of Croatia wants to open up the most common fast food somewhere he looks around and the first thing he sees is whether there is another fast food in that location where he wants to open the fast food. Because if he has fast food, it doesn't make any sense that he opens his own because people already eat there. If he has concluded that there is no fast food then he sees if there is a flow of people, hungry who will go through that place and buy his sandwiches or whatever he sells, or if he can put his product on the market. If he came to that stage and concluded that there are such people then he would sit at the table and try to define the price and whether it was worth it, how much it would cost him a sandwich to pay for electricity, water and all that, workers and everything that goes in that respect. And that's what your colleagues and colleagues in this banal variant of our citizen who opens fast food call a cost-effectiveness study, a justification for opening fast food to feed people and citizens who pass there. Now, from fast food let's get into big and serious things. When we built the Spaladium Arena, watching that fast food was, the first thing we had to see in Split was whether there might be another hall somewhere, near, relatively close that could meet such criteria. And look, the devil, there were, it's called the Grip, they've got two, but it wasn't pretty enough, it was representative, or it had some other reasons. On the other hand, when we talk about the cost of the hall, somewhere in these professional books, studies that the hall must be filled for a minimum of 200 days a year in order to be profitable. You know what 200 days a year is? Spaladium Arena means 200 days, 200 times must have a filled hall in one year. Everyone in the city of Split and around the city of Split knows that this is absolutely impossible and that there are no events and these manifestations and these people who will 200 times in 365 days bring you to fill one such hall. And when we talk about how much money it costs, how much it doesn't cost, we built a hall that was originally supposed to cost 140 million kuna with that big tower we didn't build. The hall costs 40m euros. The obligations of the city of Split and the state are to pay 3 million kuna each month for the next 30 years until 2037 to make this building work on condition that it is worth the natural thing. Three million kunas. 1.5 million kunas every month, the city of Split, 1.5 million kunas. With the fact that, and this truth works, it should be said that in those 1.5 million kunas from the state, the city of Split is also participated because we from Split send money to that central state, 3 million kunas every month. 1.5 million kunas from the city of Split. Is it necessary to count how many kindergartens it is? How many schools is that? Is it necessary to say that there are no sports halls in the city of Split in primary school? Do you have to say, just before my colleague, Supetar Mayor Ivana Marković, sent me a text and said Brač has no idea what the hall is, what the devices are and what the parquet is. They have no idea what the children's hall is and we starved in Split. And that would seem so provided that everything was wonderful, that flowers were growing, the sun was shining, and everything that happened didn't happen. However, colleagues and colleagues, responsible master or responsible authority or responsible person who manages something before it goes into something, then conducts a study of the viability of that thing. Now we go back to this citizen of ours, when he makes his own fast food and doesn't run a market analysis and performability study and it goes down and nobody does anything. His problem. I fell, I killed myself. However, fellow colleagues when you have the public money, when you work on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, with their money and other mega-projects there is absolutely no institution that tells anyone anything when someone screws around. And here someone didn't screw up, and here someone didn't do the basic assumptions that they even know if this could exist or couldn't exist. He didn't even do his homework. And now, unlike that citizen who will bear with him a poor responsibility in this case, there is no forgetfulness. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm deeply convinced that it's past the time "who's yawning, yawning." This puts the responsibility of whoever didn't do this, why he didn't do it, and why we have what we have today. That's what this is about. It's not a matter of politics, it's not a question of bickering. It's not even a question of whether we needed the halls or not. Someone even mentioned, we had Mediterranean games, we had the University. Yes, but unfortunately, at that time, it seems to me that the people who ruled the country were smarter and smarter. Because what they did at that time and today serves us honor and benefits and attracts. And what we have from our handball games is basically something that is a deep, deep dubious for which we will suffer for a long, long time. Even in Split, we were lucky that local authorities signed several secret annexes of using the same hall whose content we do not know today, but it is well known that they do not go into the interest of the city of Split. I'm asking a question about how someone who manages public funds can sign secret contracts? It's a little illogical unless it's about the safety of citizens and such services, but that's definitely not the case in this case. And to slowly go to the end, as time goes, our Split built, or definitely not built Spaladium Arena, which we have, at this point, is threatening to take the city of Split into bankruptcy, fat. And the state definitely needs to help. And the past power I know tried to help but the hole and the dubiosis is so big it didn't really work out. And when it's already been said about how there were 4, 5 or how many Ministers of Split who could have solved and couldn't solve it, only the truth is to tell you that Spaladium Arena in Split is a gift from the prime minister of Split. Only the truth works and the citizens work to make things all the way and tell them who they are. That's what this is about. And finally, what I said and in my replica, really this debate today went in a direction that maybe it shouldn't have and in any way is not even the subject of reviewing what we're talking about. But gentlemen, definitely when it comes to HDZ on this subject, it is much better for you to keep your mouth shut and pray to God to sort out somehow. And the number of HDZ clubs today in the Parliament says that the vast majority of HDZs know right now that they shouldn't be here and should be silent about this subject, I suppose. After all, the Spaladium arena will remain a sad monument to a great megalomania of one authority that wanted to build pyramids or ask God what. But it is no problem that it is a sad monument, the problem is, the problem is that for decades it will pay for future generations of someone's property, someone's pride will pay for the next 30 years of the city of Split, including me and all the representatives here who are from the city of Split. And finally to ask one particular question to the colleagues of the audit. The audit is correct, it's done properly. However, I know very much the answers, but I'm asking you about the citizens who are watching this debate right now. When you do a review and when you give your findings and if you find that there have been some irregularities, whatever they are. I ask you who is required by official duty to run the stores to investigate who is responsible for further irregularities, for listed wrong actions or to at least show that they were not wrong. But here we all agree today that it was wrong. And I'm saying this again is 2016. The time of "who pitted it" is long past. For anyone's mistakes, someone's got to answer. Public money must be held accountable. And every mistake and any irresponsibility with public money, someone needs to answer for it. And as long as someone is not specifically responsible for this failure, this will be the political slap of the HDZ, the political irresponsibility of the HDZ towards Split and the HDZ prime minister of Split, and eventually, when you put a complete review analysis towards the entire Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3495	It's got a few replicas. The first is a replica of the respected MPs, Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3496	Not only is this project and the construction of the Spaladium arena megalomanic, because it's too mild a word. In this way, citizens of Split were robbed for sports halls, for mangers, for kindergartens. What the citizens of Split need, as well as all other cities, are much needed. This whole story about the Spaladium arena was given a hunch long before the construction itself began in the very way that he advocated and how it was advocated by the then prime minister, so given how much he was in custody and how many charges we can really call him the Conte of Remetinco. But there was an even greater disaster than the greatest catastrophers could have imagined what would happen. So, the collapse of the consortium. Although the contract concluded that the city and state will pay $1.8 million a month, 30 years each month. The contract annex is still signed by the then mayor of Split, Mr. Kuret, and faced with such charges, with all this which you have spoken of in detail and what the revision speaks of year after year he deadly says. "Yes, but it would've been a greater shame if the World Cup hadn't been built." What degree of irresponsibility to say something like that, so the drinking turns upside down and very elegantly doesn't explain anything that we're talking about would be a shame if it wasn't built. The damage was done, and it wasn't built.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3497	Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Penic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3498	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Darko Paric, you have correctly concluded that former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader left a gift, a gift to Split only you were not precise. I think you should have said that he created a long-term financial obligation for the city of Split. I guess at the end of his term he wanted to do something for the region he came from, so other than that exit for... He also made the Spaladium arena. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3499	Okay. The next replica is Milivo Spik's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3500	Comrade Parisic, this seems to me to be the one thing that the left and right sides would agree on. Whatever you or your predecessors have said about the need and efficiency and purpose, even in those in quotes of honesty when you're about to build these sports halls that haven't tribald anyone but someone to whine and build them just for some championship. Good thing Croatia doesn't get the Winter Olympics, I can only imagine what would happen then and how much deeper that would be and ask a question as to what you've already said here most of you have. If from these few completely unnecessary, I say built halls could be equipped and built school halls in the Republic of Croatia and what effects would this have for youth and sport in general in Croatia. We can talk here now whatever we want, but the one called more in the political life of the Republic of Croatia is nothing, although the state will function properly, then someone will answer for it. But not just one person, there are more persons, and the person we have here and in our Croatian Assembly... but there are those who were there at the time when they could stand up and maybe raise a voice and us who weren't even close to the Parliament that we were doing to prevent it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, our voice has never been heard. You know why? Because the voice of people who are not members of parliamentary parties is irrelevant, irrelevant because somehow the media space also says that the exclusiveness of intelligence and knowledge is exclusively predetermined for the representative of parliamentary parties. And what we were then saying about that only part of it came to those who went into such things, who left the terrible dubiosis and who will have a problem for a long time, not HDZ or you, has the whole of Croatia problem. And I would be happy to see that here and in some of the discussions that will be opened we try to find a solution if there is one at all, and if in the end it doesn't prove that for some objects the best solution is to bring down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3501	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3502	I have to say that these are rare moments when you and I agree, almost entirely in this Assembly Hall, and I'm glad to admit it because this is really a topic that shouldn't have anything to do with politics at this point. What I'm about to say is that I don't care about names and last names and I don't care about the name and name of whoever did it, who didn't do it, who did it. It's an institution issue. Let the team deal with the institutions. What I want with my debate, I want to encourage and ask the institutions to do their job. I want to say that the city of Split, the city where I live, the city where my children live, and I'm going to live, who knows how much more a million-and-a-half kuna it takes every month to give for some unfinished building from which it springs, a roofing armature that has no one in it today. It's every month kindergarten, every month part of the hall, every month ask God what. Every month something communal. My city's communal standard is suffering because of this project. And it suffers badly. What I'm trying to say is that someone needs to answer for it. If a person, whether politics, whether companies don't care at all, someone needs to answer. And in order for someone to fit this country's institutions, they need to do their job. I think we're at the beginning, the review said things were right and the review said that there was definitely material to get some institutions into their business, so let's get going. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3503	Last replica, the distinguished representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3504	Thank you very much. Here's a respected colleague, Parisic, I'd answer if I wasn't for tearing down anything but for building. As far as your review issue is concerned, I agree and accept. However, the arena project was completed in 2009 when the World Handball Championship began. Meanwhile, the previous government has been in power for 2 years, and your authority has been in power for 4 years. And in that sense, here I am asking the State Audit whether there are these elements of the responsibility of the former government that for four years did not follow what was going on with the arenas, she did nothing, what was their responsibility? And for example, Split is the most ferocious case of your sin against the city of Split. You're forgetting some of the facts mentioned here. So no one argues that there was a need to run cost-effectiveness analyses and everything else. At that time, those decisions, as far as I know, were also supported by your authorities, and I don't want to enter why they weren't made or how they weren't done. I know when such events take place that and this event that it was a time seal whether Croatia will apply in time for its World Handball Championship candidacy. I don't want to create an alibi for someone who may not have taken that step, question whether there was time? Should the decision have been made and run at all if the procedure was not respected? But let us all get some sleep with the grain of responsibility, with our responsibility, because the fact is that in terms of the Spaladium arena we had constructive proposals, we participated constructively and in agreements and contacts with your authorities in the city of Split jointly crystallized the attitudes that were contrary to your government's views. Your government was looking to get away from the problem, we were looking for a way to solve the problem. Therefore signed, and in the city of Split, as far as I know, the city council unanimously reached a decision. I know in other cities. So everyone supported it and it's easy to be a general after the battle and to understand what happened and what could have been different. I say, responsibility yes, but responsibility for everything and all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3505	Replica reply, distinguished representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3506	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There is no such thing as this championship, there is no Olympics that can justify illegal activities and that can justify the situation in which the city of Split is today. There's just no such thing. It doesn't exist anywhere. When the police stop you on the highway because you're driving 180 an hour is no excuse for rushing to the Parliament and starting a session, you're still driving 180 an hour and you're going to pay that fine. There's no excuse. The palladium arena is not finished in 2009, it is not finished today either. And ask God if she'll ever be finished. Me and you are from Split, I know you were down there just like me, so don't imagine it's over. From it's sharp armature, it's absolutely unfinished. And it's only a matter of time before someone gets hurt and who's responsible for it. She's been trying to scare the shit out of her for years. And when you talk about solving the same here you are in power, you have, or I apologize, we have a prime minister who is how we all talk about a top manager, so go ahead and solve that question. After all, you've brought us into the problem we have, a problem that simply today and yesterday no one knew how to solve. You here today, basically, all the time with your debate and replicas, you're throwing some kind of fog and you're trying to distract the story from the right topic. The real theme is that we're in deep trouble about it and we can't get out of that gabula and for the next 30 years we'll be paying those million-and-a-half kunas you and I in the city of Split and this whole state a million-and-a-half kuna. And the real theme is that we need to see who's responsible for something like that. And the real point is that we need to solve that question at all costs. But there is no nice solution, there is no solution in which we will get out of it and there is no solution in which we will not pay these 40 million euros. Unfortunately, we were brought into such a beautiful situation by your authority in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3507	Thank you. We've completed our discussion on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. Here I thank Mr. Klesic and the state auditors for this set of audits they have done here in the Croatian Parliament these days. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with point 5 of the proposal for a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2016. The vote is at noon. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-02-25-0.u3508	Next we have a report on the effectiveness of financing the construction and management of sports halls carried out. Reporter is State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the effectiveness of financing the construction and management of sports halls is accepted.". Please vote. The vote is over. 100 votes in. I therefore find that it was unanimously concluded that it was proposed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Here we go with today's work. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet raised his hand. Here you go.
