ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u55	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, we are looking for a break in the Parliament regarding the situation in the INA and the relationship of our key partner MOL to the Croatian government as part of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u56	You got it. Comrade Batinić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u57	Thank you, Vice President. I am looking on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, and it is related to non-compliance with the contractual obligations of the Republic of Croatia against the Varazdin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u58	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u59	Varazdin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u60	Varazdin County. Okay. Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a break? If not, I'll take a 10-minute break. Or do I have a proposal one, maybe you want to vote first, and then we'll take a break? And here's before the break I have a notice. Photographing for MPs who have not yet been photographed for the representative cards will take place on 26 October. This is today in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic in the period from 11 to 16 hours. Thank you very much. We'll continue in 10 minutes. It's 9:00.38. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Mr. Panenic from MOST called first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u62	On 13 October of this year, the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues of the MOL administration, approved the long-term MOL Group's business strategy until 2030, which is called Enter Tomorrow, which wants to strengthen its position in Central and Eastern Europe, to become the leading chemical group in the region, which is to invest about $1.5 billion every 5 years. And what we can say in Croatia, of course, we welcome, we are pleased that our strategic partner in INA has such ambitious plans, but we also hope that these plans will be translated into also one strategy, a common strategy with the Croatian government that will develop INA by 2030. But I haven't seen a sign or a plan yet. I don't know if you've seen it. Of course we all expect it. I'm just afraid this "enter tomorrow" wouldn't become an ET – science fiction for INA. I am afraid that our hopes are in vain, because the Croatian oil profession, politics and the public have upset Mr Zsolt Hernadya's statement by the president of MOL's fugitive from the Croatian judiciary when the MOL group said it will follow its business path and plans with or without INA because the MOL 2030 strategy is sustainable and without the INA. We know how and where MOL can develop, INA can play a role in this path of growth but not necessarily, I think all of these are very worrying attitudes. But here I'll remind you of that business trip INA with MOL. So we entered the strategic partnership in 2003 with the aim of ensuring the development of INA in the future as an independent vertically integrated company where mutual cooperation contracts set objectives and mutual obligations. The MOL strategic partner has taken over the obligation to support the development of INA, increase the production of hydrocarbons, expand the sales network and all in order to strengthen the energy security and stability of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, when we look at the analysis now, it comes from a world-renowned consulting company that shows a decline in all business indicators. In the period only since 2009 when management rights have been assumed in all known ways... Here's an apology in 2013 that I have carbon reserve data fell by 23% of INA and thus the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] The market share of INA fell by 19% in wholesale sales, 17% in retail, oil processing decreased by 26% and only if it remained on the INA plans that were now in 2003 we would have indicators better by 47% since then. And of course those were our goals and this is with a strategic partner. Therefore, it is not surprising that Hernadya's statement I will convey it in full, in fact he admits that it was mishandled by INA and says, "I regret most that I cannot present any vision of INA's employees at the moment." Now imagine the president of MOL's management who has no vision of what he will do in INA and says, "We will do our best to enable the sustainable business of INA, and for all guidelines of further development, we will inevitably need the Croatian government." In my term of office when I wasn't looking for it, they probably remember now that they're still approaching, I'm afraid of the bad financial results in 2016, so now they're looking for an excuse. However, MOL seems to have led a much better policy all their business indicators are excellent, their oil reserves are growing, research shows that further progress, it turns out in the end that INA was managed as a branch, that the results of the business were consolidated as having more than 50%. I hope they don't own it. Now the MOL is working to ensure that the arbitration court decides to implement its strategy to stop the work of the Refinery in Sisak as soon as possible and to delay the modernisation of the Refinery in Rijeka. I'm afraid it's the creation of an assumption that they end up closing both. According to the available information that I have, this would actually supply the continental part of Croatia with modernized world standard refineries in Budapest and Bratislava, and our Mediterranean part, the Adriatic part, would be supplied via terminals in ports. It is therefore clear that MOL implements the policy of ensuring the status of energy leader in the region, and I am afraid that they are not also taking over some other parts. In this, I would conclude that it is high time that a consensus of politics and professions was finally reached in Croatia regarding energy security and further relations with MOL. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u63	Thank you too, dear fellow Panenic. And the name of the Club of HNS and HSU Representatives, distinguished counterpart Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HNS and HSU club, I asked for a break, and this is about non-compliance with the contractual obligations of the Republic of Croatia against the Varazdin County for contracts concluded to co-finance the construction of primary and secondary schools and sports halls according to the model of public private partnership. The contracts were concluded for the construction of 10 sports halls and built and built 22 schools. The annual lease is 27 million kuna and 200 thousand kuna, the state based on the contract took the co-financing of 55% and estimated approximately 15 million kuna. Currently on 25.10. Yesterday, the state of debt is $11 million. I don't think we should specifically say what it means to disrespect contractual obligations and which message is sent. Namely, the 2015 budget was included in the projection for 2016, 2017, the amount just mentioned at the position of taking over commitments for public private partnership projects in Varazdinska, Koprivnica-križevci County, the same problem relates to Koprivnica-Kristevnica County and the town of Koprivnica. Is this, I would not like to conclude, something wrong, but also on the basis of some of the information that we have received in the last few months of the former HDZ and MOST government that the Minister at the time questioned the validity of these contracts, simply whether he wanted to completely rule out what he did not put into the 2016 budget, simply denied the contract and which message he wanted to send. Is this about the fact that the former HDZ and MOST government, I hope not that this new HDZ and MOST government simply wants to wipe out northern Croatia and what message it sends not only to citizens but also to municipalities and cities which, if the state does not engage with its own, unless it takes over the execution of contractual obligations, will fall to the burden of the county, municipalities and cities. I will not mention the amount of tax revenues in northern Croatia, 70% of the average salary, also the average per capital, tax revenues per capita in municipalities and cities are at 55 to 60% of the average in the Republic of Croatia, there will be practically a shut-down of local and regional self-government in the north of Croatia. Does one wish to send a message to investors who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia, to invest in a country that does not want to respect, to meet their commitments? I'm not inclined to believe that. We therefore believe it is necessary that we have asked for a break, pointed out to the new government, Prime Minister Plenkovic, Finance Minister, the new Minister of Education to finally take the matter, to start acting their functions and to start to comply with the contractual obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u65	Thank you. We now move to the debate as we have announced: - Proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Executive Act, first reading, P.Z. Number 6. The proposal is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists pursuant to Articles 172 and 184. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You have received the material on the benches, and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law apply when discussing this item on the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and you received reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain this proposal? It is. On behalf of the club MOST Independent Lists, distinguished counterpart Miroslav Šimic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2068	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the next few sentences, I would like to highlight, on behalf of the promoter, the fundamental changes which these amendments and amendments contain, and our intention is to reach the highest possible final draft of the law through a debate in two readings. The fact is that in Croatia, outside the court case, they have become effective and are increasingly pushing the court's affairs out. On the other hand, everyday practice shows the lack of system and the possibility of abuse. This proposal aims to improve the system, and in addition to that, in order to protect the most socially endangered citizens, it is our intention to further regulate the Institute of Real Estate Implementation. One of the moves made by this law is the abolition of the second-degree decision by the three-member council of the first-degree court, which decides as a second-degree body of appeals against certain decisions in the Executive Procedure. Instead of the Council of the Court of First Instance, the rule is laid down that, in the second instance of appeals, the proceedings shall be conducted and the decisions taken by an individual of the second-degree court shall be taken. This law would also further protect debtors, perpetrators, real estate natural persons in such a way that, with the possibility of a one-year delay in the implementation of the proposal of an executor who has income or property that can be fully settled, the search of the manager is given the right to postpone the exercise on the same deadline and to a contractor who, together with members of his household, does not have the income and property needed to settle housing costs. The implementation under the new arrangement may be delayed once and during the stay of the operation an assessment of the subject-matter of the performance assessment will be carried out by the executive. In addition to the right to postpone the exercise, the perpetrator to a natural person who must be evicted from the property in which he or she is located and sold under conditions attributed to the law may be granted the right to accommodation. The right to accommodation is secured for 18 months. As a rule, giving on the use of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia without compensation is prescribed while, as an exception, it is proposed to pay cash compensation for accommodation costs. The recognition of the right to accommodation at the request of the perpetrators shall be decided by the Centre for Social Care located in the place, where, of course, the seat of the court is not to be taken as the property of the perpetrator. In this connection, it should be stressed that these rights will have to be regulated normally in social welfare regulations. We believe that the solution in question would be put into function of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia which were not currently used and would consequently leave the solution by which the perpetrator has the right to use the property sold in the business as a tenant one year from the date of the conclusion on the sale of the property, given that this institute was really very little use and this solution did not come to life in practice. We believe that the difficult, economic and general social situation in the country is seeking a certain reaction towards protecting the interests of the most vulnerable citizens. This is about those citizens who are left without their only home for the sake of carrying out the commission. On the other hand, it is not necessary to disregard the right of the executive to exercise their demand on the basis of their executive documents as well as the right of the customers of the property that performs good faith. This solution satisfies all these conflicting interests. And taking into account the previous possibility of delaying the implementation for a year. This means that the endangered perpetrators will be secured a roof over their heads for at least two and a half years. After that, the Centre for Social Care determines itself according to social care regulations whether there are still conditions for insurance of accommodation. However, by way of exceptional amendment in Article 91 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the A general ban on the introduction of a property, a socially endangered perpetrator, is laid down in law, if it is the small claims of their credentials. More specifically, if the sum of these claims does not exceed the amount of 20 thousand kuna in its principal. This will, for example, make it impossible to sell the only property for public service debt. An increase in the amount of salary, pension or other permanent cash income of the perpetrators that is excluded from the performance in the event that the continuous receipt of less than the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to exclude the performance from the amount of three-quarters of the salary as opposed to the two-thirds so far. In order to prevent abuses in non-jurisdictional conduct based on false, counterfeit, executive documents or the basis for payment when the account is blocked, there is no immediate transfer of funds but is waiting 60 days for those who have been committed to react by reporting irregularities if they are present. This will prevent fraud committed by some criminals with false IDs in direct payment through FINA. For the purpose of preventing abuse, in the event of enforcement of the wage, the possibility shall be prescribed for the court to determine on the salary paid by the employer at the expense of the bank when the execution is determined for the purpose of the settlement of the claim on the basis of legal restraint, the compensation incurred by the employer on the basis of health impairment or reduction or loss of working ability and damages on the basis of the loss of restraint due to the death of the maintenance provider. Therefore, in these cases, particularly sensitive groups of executives, the court will be able to re-determin the exercise directly on the salary in order to avoid the possibility of burdening the perpetrators with fictitious documents in order to prevent the collection of cash claims on their accounts for those groups of executives. In order to speed up the procedure for the enforcement and discharge of the courts of public notaries, it is possible for the authorising officer to know the personal identification number of the perpetrators which, otherwise, the courts or public notaries would have to obtain by official duty on the basis of the information provided by the authorising officer. The procedure so far has significantly stalled the executive procedure and has affected the waste of the power of the executive bodies in the conduct of the secondary operations. The proposed solution also introduces a special type of sanctions in the amount of 400 kuna for enforcement officers who, during court or out of court, have been double-settled in order to force the executives to withdraw the application for enforcement in due time in the event that the perpetrator has voluntarily fulfilled their obligation. So if the executive is already calmed and renegotiated, he will be punished by 400 kuna. In order to protect the perpetrators, a specific notice shall be prescribed informing the performer that the decision on the performance has acquired the property of power and enforcement in order to ensure that all the conditions for implementation of the application have been met. Many perpetrators point out that they were not informed of the performance and that there was no need to carry out the performance because they would fulfil their obligation or at least attempt to resolve their agreement with the executive. In this way, conscious executives will have another chance to settle their debt without implementing forced measures, without blocking accounts and without selling real estate. The law also regulates procedural provisions concerning the entry into force of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a procedure for a European account blocking order in order to simplify the cross-border payment of debt in civil and commercial matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2069	Thank you very much, Proposer. We have seven replicas. The first replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2070	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a thank you to the Proposer for explaining this law. There are a dozen measures that stand out here. I'm also glad that the topic has finally come up on the agenda and I'm glad it's in two readings because this is one complex law. I'm sorry it wasn't on the agenda before, at least at the beginning of the year. A lot more people would have a lot less problems. So what I'm most interested in personally is this part of the changes that states that the executioners will, I suppose, be housed in apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia for 18 months. Now, there's a big problem that's going to happen after 18 months and I've seen it and witnessed it through my work so far when the state mostly through the Ministry of Defence or other institutions delegates its own citizens often defends from the state property to which it's the only home. So I'm afraid it's going to happen here that the state will find itself in the capacity of an executive and that hundreds of people she originally set up will have to depose and throw them on the street. So I'm asking the bill promoter to explain to me what's going to happen to these people after the 18 months have passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2071	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of Šimić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2072	Dear colleague Sinčić, after 18 months of age, social care centres will assess the opportunities of a family, or individual, of the natural person we have set up in this way as much as it is possible to pay the rent on its own, whether or not in this property that is rented or rented. If he remains in the status of a socially endangered person, the state will continue to pay if, with the help of the state, there is no reason for the citizen to step on his feet after that, he does not pay the rent or possibly solves his living space differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2073	Another replica of distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Simic, you have well explained this proposal to amend and supplement the Executive Law, which clearly shows how institutionally they will be taken care of and legally taken care of by all those who are threatened with the Republic of Croatia and who have really come into the situation to be completed with the only property and that they have no place to live. However, you forgot to say that these amendments and amendments to the law have put an end to the political stage of all those who have unlawfully "aided" to the endangered and have allowed them to pay 70,000 kuna and have never appeared to them again. These are things that are also worrying and that need to be legally prevented and that allow no one to be attacked, prevented and physically harassed by those who build their own policy on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2075	There's no response to the replica. Then we move on to the third line. That's the esteemed colleague, Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2076	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. I have two objections to this law of yours. The first concerns this assessment and the sources of the necessary means to implement the law. So in the proposal for this law, you have under point three under these sources... an analysis found that from the beginning of the electronic auction before the financial agency in the period from mid-2015 to mid-2016 420 cases, i.e. that at the annual level, there are figures of about a hundred executives who would be able to claim a right to accommodation. That calculation doesn't even correspond to your true condition, why? Because the electronic auction of real estate is conducted and sold from 1 January 2015 and since the court’s enforcement procedures last for several years, the vast majority of public auctions in real estate are translated by performances from 2011, 2012 and 2013, and they are not conducted by electronic means, but are thus carried out every day in court. So every day in court and they're not listed by electronic means, and you didn't see it in this law. According to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, 325 public auctions in houses and 283 public auctions in apartments will be held between 20.11.2016 and 20.01.2017. So in just 3 months, 608 public auctions are held on the real estate of the perpetrators. According to these data, 2432 public auctions are held annually in houses and apartments. Your analysis is unfortunately done on a superficial basis, not taking as a parameter of court proceedings that lasts and you know it for a few years and not being conducted by electronic means. So my question is, on the basis of this, I think it is necessary to secure a far greater amount, i.e. to provide adequate means of implementation if you want to implement this measure or if you do not want this measure never to take effect, but it is just a pre-election trick.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2077	Thank you very much. You've done a lot of time already.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2078	And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2079	Reply to the replica of Šimić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2080	Here's my thanks to my colleague for his well-intentioned suggestions. What I can say is that the data we're using is data collected through the Justice Department. It is true that there is more to be done, but it is also a matter of solving this law for a certain period of time the housing of certain socially endangered persons. So we do not want and have no intention nor is this a state capable of any person who is left without any real estate and who is in any social statute of assistance. It would be great if we could, unfortunately not. Here we are focused on people who are left without their only real estate and who are found not simply economic enough to say potent so that they can finance their own housing. The assessment from the Justice Department is that there are about a hundred cases at the annual level.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2081	Thank you. The fourth replica is Honorable colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2082	Thank you very much, Mr. Simic. Just as counterpart Kovac said what a problem it is for our citizens, six hundred people at this point are being executed on real estate. And of course adequate to those who have already been spent waiting for them to be decommissioned. And that's why I'm surprised, personally, that this law didn't go into a faster procedure in two readings right away, but in one, and the other, given that you've proposed some laws. The one who may be the most important, who may be the one who weighs the most people, and who are essentially the people who expect the most with him, is buying time and prolonging it. Since this debate today, which we have here, our citizens waiting for action will have nothing to do with it. On the other hand, we will quickly in the Croatian Parliament in the procedure have an amendment to the Law on Government to form a new ministry immediately in two readings only to form a new Ministry of the HDZ Minister and he will receive it, and our 6 hundred people who are now terrified are waiting for two reads of the Most. So, for one man, we're going to solve the problem tomorrow, and for 6 hundred people, we're not solving the problem, especially because it's going to be the Ministry of Property that's going to deal with these very apartments, etc., other state-owned assets. The fact is that we could do it right away in two readings so that a relatively new minister of property could deal with these problems. And another proposal. Why should people move in and move into state housing? Which is why the state wouldn't take over those apartments and have people stay in their apartment, and then with the bank or someone who's in debt to solve the problem later. That minister of property, so give him a job. So let him solve property problems with banks and creditors, and leave the citizens in their apartments. So, problem for one man right now, for the HDZ right now, for 6 hundred people to wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2083	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2084	Dear colleague Maras, I'm really surprised by the way you're performing since you are, you're complaining that we're not going into some kind of niche procedure, and at the same time, let's remember that you've had four years to solve these problems. Now you're complaining about what might take a month, a month and a half. Why didn't we put it in an emergency procedure? Well, you were among other things, and the opposition MPs were the loudest, that with these laws we should go into the regular procedure to give as many quality solutions as possible. And now that we've been following these suggestions and we're really going and we've received valuable suggestions and before on the parliamentary committees, let's make the most quality solution. That doesn't suit you now either. So, you were four years old, you didn't do it. Now that we want to do it in a month and a half and listen to your suggestion, it doesn't suit you. As far as the laws that went into emergency procedures are concerned, it is the Law on Officials that went to the abolition of or the restriction of the right six plus six and against that right of your colleagues from your club to apply for an assessment of constitutionality. We'll see how it goes in the end, but to me it looks like a struggle for parliamentary deputies who spent a month here in benches or two weeks having the right to pay for 12 months. As for the second law in which we went by emergency procedure, the Law on the financing of political parties where we reduced the amounts for political parties and which we discussed already in a reading in the previous assembly. It's very clear why we went there to emergency procedures and why we're not going here. And why didn't you change it in four years of your reign and do everything you suggest today and I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2085	Thank you very much. Fifth replica, distinguished colleague of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Simic, I followed your debate carefully and you presented one, so I dare say very incorrect information. So I'll quote you. You said that the amendments, by adopting the amendments to this law that you propose from the exercise, would exclude three-quarters of the pay of the perpetrators. That's not true. This law does not provide for an amendment to Article 173(1). The implementing law, which speaks of the limitation of the exercise, reads: "If the exercise is carried out on the salaries of the perpetrators from the exercise, the amount of two-thirds of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia will be excluded." By adopting this law, therefore, the limit on the performance will continue to be two-thirds of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia for all those who pay more than the average salary. Nothing's changed. You intervened in the second item that speaks of those who earn less than the average net salary. But look and there remains a provision as follows, except, excuse me, three-quarters of the salary of the perpetrators but no more than two-thirds of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. So here the limit remains two-thirds of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. Only for those who make less income than that will the restriction be as you predicted. Now, we can agree on that or not, but I'm asking you to tell the truth in the future, and you've said something that isn't true. I'll do it again. You said that three quarters of their salary will be excluded from the performance, and that is simply not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2087	Replication response, fellow Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2088	Fortunately, I have written down what I said. Thus, the amount of wages, pensions or other permanent cash income of the perpetrators is increased, which is excluded from the performance in the event that the continuous receipt is less than the average net salary. I'm the one who said that to a colleague of the coat of arms. Maybe you didn't hear me. And these people are exactly what you said is true except that the incorrect claim that I said something in this speech is the opposite. So this applies to persons with less than average net Croatian salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2089	Next replica, dear colleague Martha Luc-Polanc, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2090	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. In this way, when it comes to amending the executive law, it should always be borne in mind that the executive law is primarily intended for the forced collection of the demand of the enforcer. So the executive doesn't always have to be a bank, the executive can be a worker who hasn't received his salary for 2, 3 years. So all these changes must go in order not only to protect the perpetrator but to make it impossible for the executive to settle his claims. My personal view is that this article 84a that you have changed in a way that you have allowed the delay not only for those reasons that were before, which is if it has insurance that it will settle its demand but you have allowed the perpetrator who with members of his household to prove that he does not have enough funds to pay the rent that he has the right to postpone the commission for a year. Afterwards, you gave Article 131a the possibility to settle the rent for 18 months. So I think in some ways here you're double-protecting the perpetrator at the expense of the executive. Therefore, the executive who has a powerful and executive court decision must wait another year for him to reach his means. And I think that in that section we need to think a little bit more and make a decision after further reflection because we must, of course, protect the executives in their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2091	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2092	I thank my colleague. Well, look at how you make a law like this, you always need to find some real measure. On the one hand, to protect the debtors and the person who is socially endangered, on the other hand, to ensure that you finally collect your debt. It's okay. However, I think that both this law and everything we do in the protection of the socially endangered should be seen from the perspective of where Croatia is today. It is here that on the one hand we have most often I would say in major executive procedures where we have significant financial resources on the one hand as perpetrators of endangered citizens, and unfortunately not the unemployed as you speak, but the banks that behave in Croatia as we already know they are. And MOST there is absolutely no problem to propose such an amendment of the law which will go slightly more on the hands of the perpetrators than the executives because we think it's fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2093	Thank you. And finally, distinguished colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Simic, the amendments to the law, reportedly, should protect debtors, however, how much to read from the document will in fact make their position even more difficult. In fact, the law involves Chapter 35. – a European account blocking order whereby Croatian citizens' accounts can also be executed abroad. Which means that, for example, HRT fees will have to be paid in Ireland, they will have to be paid in Portugal, wherever Croatian citizens live, they will not be able to protect themselves from the executives. So it's crucial to say that according to this bill, no account will be unblocked but at the same time many accounts will be blocked. Thus, it cannot be said that the situation of therefore blocked citizens is improving but is actually getting worse. I would also like to point out that this implementation of this European account-blocking order shows all the generosity of Croatian membership in the EU where we cannot actually draw any conclusions about this but we simply have to implement this directive, it is above Croatian law and we can now discuss here as much as we want this order to be implemented since January 2017, as already stated on Parliament's website. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2095	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2096	Thank you, pal Bunjac. Well, that's a good way to put it, to say the presentation of your fellow MPs before they think we're overprotecting the perpetrators, and you don't think we're protecting them at all. And it seems to me that from these very two exhibitions, we can conclude that we have then found the best possible measure. As for the difficult position and possible perpetrators, watch MOST with your proposal, which is in line with our partners, it really wants to protect citizens who are socially endangered. But we do not want to make it possible to avoid paying the debts, because it would not be good for the Croatian economy. And we speak it very clearly and openly. But if you want to observe this proposal through the prism of reality, through the prism of openness you will see very well that this proposal really helps the perpetrators who are socially endangered, who are hard to live and this is what Most can do at this point. We would very much like you to make your proposals too, so you should write them first, and secondly, to gather around you a sufficient number of MPs who will vote for this proposal and I will tell you all the honors. We wrote this proposal, and in such a way we wrote that we could make a consensus around it. It's one step, not perfect, not in a way to help everyone at risk, but much more than we've ever had before. That's what we did. We've made a law, gathered around us enough MPs to carry it out. We invite you to do the same, if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2097	Thank you. We're done with these replicas to expose the proposer. Now I'm asking the committee's rapporteurs if they'll take the floor? Arsen Bauk, Justice Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2098	Thank you, Mr. President. At its first session, the Justice Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, which was submitted by the Association of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The proposal for a law is in accordance with Article 81. The Rules of Procedure discussed in the capacity of the home body. In his opening statement, he pointed out that amendments and additions to the Implementing Law are proposed in the ordinary procedure of adoption, that they are open to all proposals and suggestions during the debate. He explained the fundamental intensities of the proposal, calling for important provisions to be made for a second-degree decision. That procedure shall be conducted and the decisions taken by a judge of a second-degree court. With the possibility of a one-year delay in the implementation, it is proposed to postpone the implementation on the same deadline and on the perpetrator who, together with members of his household, does not have the income and property needed to settle housing costs. The right to accommodation under the conditions of the prescribed law shall be proposed to the perpetrator who is to be evicted from the property in which he resides and which is sold in the business. In addition, the proposal increases the amount of revenue exempted from the implementation, the collection institute is being developed on the basis of the debtor, giving the authorities the opportunity to learn about the OIB of the perpetrators, introducing a special sanction for the officers who have been double-settled during the implementation. In the debate, the members of the Committee presented the following proposals, observations and opinions for the proposed amendments and additions to the Implementing Law. It has been pointed out that the proposed provisions protect citizens with money claims, bringing citizens over whom they are carried out to sell real estate and others. It is proposed to review Article 131 and in the section governing the right to rent in such a way as to arrange who makes the decision and whether the same court is delivered. It is considered that an amendment to the Implementing Act should prohibit the performance of any property which is subject to a mortgage contract agreed by a) a loan in which no interest rate change parameters are agreed, as well as b) a credit agreement with an indeterminate interest rate. The part and contribution of this report are also written proposals by representatives of Goran Aleksic. It has been pointed out that the proposed provisions are not adequately regulated on issues related to the performance of craftsmen and companies, given that craftsmen for their obligations correspond to the entire assets and are proposed to adequately regulate the delivery of the solution to the performance. After the debate, the Committee on Justice decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament, with eight votes in favour and three votes against. 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law is hereby adopted. Any objections to the proposals and opinions presented in the debate shall be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. The Committee, with the agreement of the Proposer unanimously with 11 votes, decided to submit a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly: The Proposer is obliged to carry out public consultation under the provisions of the Law on the right to access information.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2099	Thank you very much. We've had one replica, but the replicas to the presentation of the committee's rapporteurs are unfortunately not possible. So now we're moving on to the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS and HSU, the first to speak will be the distinguished colleague of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2100	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Proposer has disappeared somewhere, but there is a Club of Representatives of MOST, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the club, I must say that the HNS and HSU club will provide conditional support in this first reading and in this bill. It's conditional because we'd like to have our proposal on whether or not it's ready to have a quality public debate. Not to discuss with the public interested through electronic media and thus a real public debate with the representatives of the judiciary, i.e. the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Public Bookmark Chamber, the Bar of Lawyers and the associations interested in this matter. So if we get that indication, then we will be very happy to raise our hand and support this law in our first reading, because in this law we have recognized good intentions. Although I do not personally personally personally refer to one reaction to Mr Maras, I do not need to defend him, he knows how to defend himself, but it is not appropriate for a colleague to say that the past government could have done so because the last amendments to the Implementing Law were in 2016, and in 2016 MOST was in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and could have participated already in the amendments and amendments to the Implementing Law. So, I'm asking you just to stop dealing with the practice of hitting on the previous coalition government because the latest changes were in 2016, it would be my pleasure to replicate on this issue. So no one can say that it's already been impossible to intervene in this. What we appreciate especially well in this proposal for amending and supplementing the Implementing Law is the issue of additional protection of those with minimum income in the Republic of Croatia, these are all those who receive below the average salary and below the average pension and it is certainly a move worth paying attention to and deserves one support in any case. What we think was a bit of a rush, and that left a mark on the bill, too, was a rush to put it on the agenda, so we have the wrong addressees in this law. We don't have the right names of social policy ministries because this was a proposal before the new ministry. One more detail that I cannot understand and ask the Proposer to explain because we have in the final provisions that this law enters into force after its adoption and the provisions of certain articles enter into force on 18 January 2017. So I would ask a precise explanation of why this date is not common in practice and what we think is the pre-remended intention of the promoter is to try to replace the lack of some policies with one law. So we have a social policy, like we have, quite arranged and it still needs to be upgraded, that we understand each other, but we don't have a demographic policy, we hope that the new Ministry of Demography, family and youth and social policy will define that demographic policy as well. But surely what is missing for the quality of implementation of this law is a question of something we definitely haven't had in 25 years, which is a matter of housing policy. Besides housing and building POS apartments, we do not have quality housing policies in Croatia. And secondly, what is already mentioned here in the debate, I hope that we will have a policy of governance of state property or state-owned property, as well. Therefore, the effective implementation of this law depends on some of the policies that are outside this law and compliance with these policies is indeed necessary, as is necessary and precise, to calculate the burdens on the budget of 2017 in the implementation of this law. I don't mind people who have an accident losing their jobs, not being able to repay their loans that their property is the only property they're carrying out, to ensure the right to a home, the right to accommodation, but we and those who are eternal tenants and live on some border that we also have to take care of. So it's not just that let's say social figures that, unfortunately, they lost their jobs can't repay a loan that needs to be protected. So we have a bit of a broader problem if we look at it. What's still missing in this law is the precise definition of some other goals. I can understand the aim of protecting the socially endangered category, so I am already repeating one more person with below the average salary and below the average pension, and that is a very clear and precise objective. But I wish we had set as a goal a more transparent implementation of the executive procedure as such that we aim at networking certain institutions and information on the implementation of the executive procedure because it is nowhere near yet, nor near ideal. And even from the position, these goals are equally valuable in the functioning of the system as well as the one that we have accurately identified and which we, as a socially sensitive party, particularly appreciate. What I must say is that we have around us examples of good implementation of the exercise on the basis of a credible document and this is an authentic product of former Yugoslav legislation, so this is a characteristic of the area, i.e. the countries that were created in the area of the former state, so one of our specifics and we don't have to be ashamed of it or we have to give it up. They have developed on some of these plantations as executive procedures, such as the collection of creditors on the basis of credible documents. We have an example of Slovenia that is neither near nor close to ours, but this Slovenian example is a praiseworthy, successful reorganisation of the performance on the basis of a credible ID. In addition to the positive financial effects for the Slovenian state budget, this model of conduct has also been observed by European institutions through the achievement of the European Commission's prize. It is important for the analysis of this example to see that this model was introduced gradually, firstly through the application of technical information systems and their integration, the education of personnel and their gradual positioning into the system to the normative regulation of the entire system, which only then came into life and began to act. We in Croatia have introduced a system of enforcement based on credible documents by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law in early February 2006, so 10 years ago when they received this competence public notebooks. This legal project freed regular courts for several hundred thousand cases per year and also met the conditions for faster handling in such cases. To a significant extent, there has been a reduction in the overall failure to resolve the case before regular courts and the result before the public notary of the proceedings was an executive document in relation to the debtor who failed to fulfil the cash demand in around 95% of the proceedings being initiated. Only about 5% of the cases have been forwarded to regular courts for further proceedings in connection with the objection of debtors. In the past 10 years, this model of implementation of the exercise has been gradually upgraded and improved through a series of laws amending and supplementing the Implementing Law, as I have already said in 2016, which has had a more effective implementation of the procedure, a more uniform distribution of the case and, by the last amendment and addition of the Implementing Law, the public notebooks have been given the opportunity to use data on residence data from the MAP records as well as data from the OIB records, the Ministry of Finance by electronic means. This linkage with the databases and records of the competent national authorities has greatly improved the implementation of the executive procedure. In addition to the appropriate amendments and additions to the current executive law following a professional discussion at the level of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Bar of Lawyers and the Public Bookmark Chamber, as well as associations dealing with this problem. Of course, all politicians who are close to this matter are invited to further inform and connect all participants and records of the importance of handling as well as rationalising the costs of the procedure of the Croatian system of performance based on a credible document could become even more effective. So the reason for these changes and the additions of the law is, but it needs to be quite enough, it needs to be very careful and it needs to be measured three times and cut once. This would significantly avoid unnecessary significant burden on regular courts in this type of procedure, so there would be no increase in the number of judges and authorised officials, both in financial terms and in the sense of not a small cost of postage and the like. With the possibility of effective collection of multiple outstanding cash claims. Without much twisting, I must say that the possible introduction of the Slovenian model into the Croatian legal order would not be an acceptable solution. A similar model to our model is made by Hungarians, somewhat similar to the Austrians, and we, after ten years of developing our model described above, seem to be more acceptable and rational to upgrade and improve the existing system of stalking and make greater use of all the professional and professional potentials of public notary and lawyer professions with advanced electronic solutions and tools. As far as this legal solution is concerned, or the proposal of the Real Estate Act, I believe that it is necessary once again to check that the rent of a 120 m square apartment is an average in Croatia of 2850 kuna per month. I think we should check all this out to the Department of Construction. I'm a little under-priced for such a high-square. I can understand that somewhere in some rural areas if there is such an apartment can achieve such a price but I know for sure that in Zagreb, it is not such a case along the coast. In any case, this should be seen and seen what we have at our disposal and where the state of residence, property of the state of Croatia or the housing fund of the Republic of Croatia and whether it can be used for these purposes. Of course, if this model was proposed, if you lived, of course, that would make these apartments better and maintain and function. I have no objection to the replica here why the state would not be in the business of an entrepreneur in the sense of taking over apartments from banks at some nominal price and becoming an entrepreneur or renting these apartments to citizens because there will be the need of younger generations to solve housing issues and to get apartments in a favourable lease. This can contribute to the demographic policy of Croatia. And the last thing I'm going to say is I'm not sure, or we're not sure in our club whether moving from a three-member council to an individual's judge is going to give the results that we want. In any case, we appreciate the initiative positively. We find a foothold at social times, and on this side we find the bill justified. And on the condition that I have said club HNS and HSU will support it in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2101	Thank you, too. We have seven replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Nikola Grmoy's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2102	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I thank my dear colleague for the constructive presentation of this initiative, which you have said goes in favour of socially endangered citizens. You said it would be better if this transparency of the executive procedure meant that this law was passed, but it was highlighted. And this is what our colleague Šimić said on behalf of the promoter that a special notice is prescribed for the protection of the perpetrators, which informs the perpetrator that the decision on the exercise has acquired the property of power and vindication for information that all the conditions for the implementation of this exercise have been met. So this transparency of the executive procedure is also extremely important. As regards this observation that MOST was in a position to amend the Implementing Law. So exactly the appearance of this proposal shows that the law was prepared means during the time MOST took part in the former government, so we have this problem with the names of ministries but also with the date of entry into force. So this proposal was prepared while MOST took part in the last government. There was no time to come before the Croatian Parliament. Here he comes now, and this remark from our colleague Simic on Mr Maras's exposure went in this direction that the opposition objected to the urgency of the procedure and the adoption of the law, and now you are looking here for a public debate that we absolutely agree with because we consider this to be an important law. And you need all the stakeholders to get involved, to make constructive proposals, and besides, you've made a lot of remarks here that stand. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2103	A reply to the replica of my colleague Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2104	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. And your replica was as constructive as you said yourself as my debate. And I had no objection to the transparency Mr. Simic spoke of. I've kind of had an objection to the transparency of the whole procedure since we still don't have the networking of all institutions that this can be clear and transparent. And secondly, if nothing else, I gave you a chance to replicate and say what you were doing in the last government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2105	Thank you very much. The second is the replica of Mr. Mare Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2106	Dear counterpart Hrelja, I also thank you for a very constructive approach and for your principled support for this proposal, which you said you would fully support if the public debate included all the relevant institutions. Of course, if their proposals, if they are correct and high-quality, are accepted for that reason and we open this public debate because of the importance of this law. You also had one remark that seemed to me to refer to atypicality in the entry into force of certain provisions of the law. In fact, certain provisions of the law will enter into force immediately, so eight days from the day of their publication in the National Journal, and the provisions that will enter into force on 18 January will then come into force because of the obligation to implement the EU's provisions on the blocking of an account that lasts until then. It is therefore in the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2107	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2108	Well, thanks for the clarification, but I don't think you can keep it to yourself. You must write this in the transitional final provisions that this provision enters into force precisely on 17 or 18 January for that, that and that. We don't all have to look, we're not really that strong. We, as in the name of the clubs, are still discussing the law in general, the whole system, not the nomotechnical details, but I think there should always be some exceptions to the rules. It's probably there. I had no doubt there was a good intention. Here's a thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2109	We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2110	Dear colleagues, this initiative is, the one launched by MOST is of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia. But these discussions remind me of that, that legend of Nero playing the harp while Rome was burning. That's what's going on here. A quick question. It's been 20 years, and we haven't established a legal system. What's causing it? We're not out yet. Just a proposal for this law, this reading was more evidence that we hadn't come out of that post communist disorientation yet. The doctrines don't interfere. What law rules in Croatia? The surface analysis will show whoever reads the newspaper, Croatia is, 270000 legal entities in Croatia create a Croatian budget, and we have 330000 blocked. It's devastating. We have 20,000 companies without any employees. Came out of one hiduchi to another hiduchi. But what is it? This is putting a patch on a bigger problem, it's a legal system. That's more uninvited to Mr. Hrelja than the Justice Committee. What are we waiting for? Who abolished the financial school of two thousand and some years that had to deal with the literacy of financial people and the administration of Croatia? What do we have today? We have inspectors working for the church, who are subject to bribery. Since the law was implemented, the law of 7 million Croats has been implemented. And what's going on? That's every four, fifth man who's a working man. We're colleagues now before the economic break-in. He's on his way to collect the debt next year. In Croatia 1.1 man works, one is retired. It's unsustainable. If something doesn't change quickly, if we don't have a functional legal system we'll always have a credit rating, for example, as one Eritrea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2111	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2112	Well, I have to admit, I didn't fully understand what part of my presentation my colleague replicated, but apparently he used his two minutes to express some of his general views. Of course, it is the task of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament to replicate, to speak, in principle, either... So in an individual debate on the subject on the agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think Mr. Glasnovic, a respected colleague, has quite generalized and I don't feel like he's replicated anything to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2113	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2114	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that in the name of truth, I have to say one thing to Mr. Hrelja, which is that during his speech he ran away from the central issue as a cat around a hot porridge, and the central question is why in Croatia there was no settlement of claims, why are all these people in the blockade. Because the exercise of its nature is an execution, and this law is not at all concerned with the issue of floods of irrevocable claims, nor is that questionable at all. So it's as if it's just a question of how we're going to do the job. It's like we don't know in America we have a death sentence and now we choose to hang, shoot, we want a gas chamber, we choose an electric chair. So this executive law actually only offers as some sort of solution. In fact, it all comes down to the fact that at the end of the day people will end up doing it just in a way that I don’t know by quotes a little more painlessly. And I'd also like to say that the cause of the country's kuna depletion was actually leading to a flood of blocks and roofs. What's she doing here? What's she doing here? What's she doing here? That's what you all know, that's because money goes into circulation just as a loan. If no one raises credits, the cash flow stops, and since all the money that already exists is to take the loan as that money returns simply comes out of circulation. Every time someone repays a loan, the money from the optics disappears. And as our society stopped mass borrowing, it simply came to the so-called. monetary contractions and there's been a collapse of the entire economy. I can see that no one here speaks or intends to touch it, so in the name of the truth, it is my duty to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2115	Thank you very much, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2116	Well, my answer to your linemate Pernar is going to be the same in the name of the truth, and it's not true that I'm running like a cat around hot porridge because I have no intention or that's my style. But you must also read some other documents that will show you what kind of people we are, what kind of citizens we are in relation to our environment and other EU countries. Compared to the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia, Croats have 60% more to do with 100 thousand inhabitants. It also speaks of some financial discipline and financial culture in the Republic of Croatia. Is it precisely for all the responsible government and responsible law or whether we are also obliged to plan our finances family and personal according to the possibilities it is again a question. And we can be critical and bring all our problems to the state but these problems will come back to us each and every family. So we can't run away and there's no evading the subject, but let's study all the systems in the environment to see who we are, so we can get one real assessment of where the real problem is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2117	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished counterpart Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2118	Thank you, Vice President. You've passed on the club's conclusions. When we talked about supporting the positive intensity of these bill proposals, it was essential that this law be in practice to be effective. These were all our remarks, and I practically think you've made most of it out. However, for this reason we have also proposed, and now especially the more we see it, the more we see that the government will also form a new ministry, the Ministry of Property. In the debate, we mentioned one problem, dealing with various numbers. We have now seen here in replicas of the applicant's presentation of the number of persons completed, the number of those who need help, and for this very reason, it was also a proposal for the Proposer to connect or network with all the relevant ministries that can contribute as much as possible to the quality of this bill. I only hope that the ministry will be new that we will probably have to pass the Law on the formation of the Government, that there will be no problem as the future minister announced with visible or invisible property. I hope that all that will be necessary for the realization in the practice of this law will be visible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2119	The reply to the replica, the esteemed colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2120	Dear fellow Batinic, I thank you for your replica and further underline the importance of the system networking with the relevant ministries of the present and future. You gave me a chance to say that there's a kind of real estate data bank in the Department of Construction, and let's just say that could be the next step of networking the system. But you also gave me the opportunity to respond to your replica in the sense that I underline once again the importance of leading certain policies, which is demographic policy, social policy, state property management policy and the one that lacks housing policy in the Republic of Croatia. It's important how many of them we don't have to set up and start dealing with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2121	Thank you. The sixth replica, dear colleague Ivan Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2122	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I am pleased to hear that the executive law is passed in this Croatian Assembly I would say such a good morning we woke up and started working after 20 years when we allowed these banks and all kinds of credit cooperatives to extricate our citizens. But there it means in that time 20 years both HDZ and SDP had their hands where they should have prevented it long ago and probably not so many people would be on the street today. If the Supreme Court has found that banks have illegally and unilaterally raised interest, I am now asking a question here, and have carried out the mass of our already citizens who are out of their homes, I am asking a question if it is proven for these interests that I believe they are, that our citizens could not pay their salaries to raise their scales and interest that will happen to these banks, what will these people who have been expelled from their houses get for comfort? Whether it will retroactively return to any law enforcement and sue the bank to settle because our citizens who came to the Parliament and I had the opportunity to listen would return the loan with some normal interest, and abnormal interest simply couldn't cover their salaries. So I'd like to know if this law will put something in place that those people who have already been expelled and who are no longer in their homes and who are helping them if they prove that the banks have done the same thing to everyone else when they're guilty of something they shouldn't have done in this country. I think we need to be tough and tell the banks a lot. Of course it's the People's Bank who let them interest our citizens who might be ignorant and didn't know how everything was going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2123	Thank you. The answer to the replica, my colleague Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2124	Thank you. Dear fellow Music is your seventh replica as well as seven guarantees but it is very difficult to achieve as all seven guarantees of MOST is. I am already here for the thirteenth year, and we always have problems with the adoption of every law with retroactive application and with the mitigation or revaluation of damage that has already been done because there are no certain provisions of the law and it really goes to all of us, did we react quickly enough when we have seen a certain anomaly in society because the laws are passed for a certain time and in certain circumstances. But our true wealth and our real effectiveness of the Croatian Parliament would also be in that area if we saw errors in the system or injustices in the system and then responded to quality laws and regardless and did not always have to come from the Government but could come from the initiative of MPs. Look, I'm okay with this let's say, the legislative outsides that forced us to do MOST, maybe some new conditions are being created because we're thinking about writing some laws in the club of HNS and HSU, and then we'll see our solidarity between us MPs and how ready we are to solve our citizens' problems. Anyway, I'm experiencing your replica exclusively well-intentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2125	Now that there was that tile correction of an incorrect quote, it wasn't the seventh, it was the sixth replica. Now goes the seventh replica and the last one, it's a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2126	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I hope you will take my line well on purpose. Namely, any law intensities as well as the one that would go towards improving the system so far in terms of efficiency on the one hand, so that all those who believers can collect their claims more easily, but on the other hand certainly more humanely. What led me to the replica? You said at one point it wouldn't be good to introduce a Slovenian model, so I wondered why? What you have well said is the necessity for the effectiveness of each law is the information system with which institutions must be linked to obtain the greatest efficiency of the administration and ultimately of the administration, whether it is local administration whether it is public undertakings or some other companies participating in such a system in the executive procedure. The government actually proposed here, adopted in the Parliament of the Central State Office for Digital Society. The biggest problems of digital society are poverty, and in this sense I think that the Slovenian model, which only one court has authorized to carry out the performance and with this specialization, I think that has been achieved much more effectively, and in the end and then easier access to both citizens and information in that court, and then easier availability of this information. Today's solutions to the performance, I saw a solution like that yesterday, not quite clear. I think an ordinary citizen thinks they're causing a lot of trouble. If he doesn't have legal help, he can hardly understand it. And of course when we talk about housing policy, and I can't mention Slavonia again, watch out in Slavonia every time we take some 100 monetary units and you invest in the real estate of those 100 currency units at interest is no longer worth 50. So these are problems. It is fortunate that banks also want to lend loans, but in Slavonia it is especially a sensitive area because no one will be able to charge from such a property especially in those rural areas where from day to day there are fewer inhabitants and more and more empty living space.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2127	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2128	I thank my colleague, Žagar, and I thank you, Vice President, for correcting the seventh, sixth, although the correction of the incorrect quote was not bad, it was very attractive, I must admit, but we do not have it in the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Žagar, you have noticed well and I see that you have looked at the Slovenian model, but if we decided to now move on to the Slovenian model 10 years of practice of carrying out the performance that has been checked by the public notebooks we would have to throw in the wind and start all over again. I think we have one system that works, which solves 95% of the execution and only 5% of the executions have an objection to themselves. I think it's more effective to upgrade the system than to leave the system and go to the application of a new model because we didn't exactly have positive experience when we implemented into our legal system, nor German experiences, nor Austrian experiences, nor do we know whose, always twist it in our own way. I think it's better to go through our own experience, our own knowledge of our system's shortcomings and build on it. And as for the price of real estate in Slavonia, I understand but I can't help but really tell you one truth, and in a way I thank you for having enriched this debate and that finding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2129	Thank you. We continue to discuss clubs. The next is the Live Wall Representatives' Club, two representatives Sinčić and Bunjac, with Ivan Vilibor Sincic on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2130	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I stress again, I'm glad this complex theme goes into two readings. I'd like to start by saying what is the purpose of amending this law and similar laws that talk about forced collection. So first of all, we have to remove inhumanity from the top. It must no longer happen that thousands and thousands of kunas are expenses on several hundred debts, it must not happen that people end up on the road to throw them like dogs, as they say, and then manage themselves. It's the main intensity of this law and it's good to discuss it here right now. It could have been discussed a long time ago, and the case that's talking about it here, I'm going to remind you that it's not just actions because of the debt I'm going to concentrate most on this item of amendments to the law, I'm going to remind myself of the problem of protected tenants or the problem of housing law. 20 and a few years one four thousand families, so somewhere tens of thousands of people run disputes, owners against the owners. Where is it that the owner can't get his property? Here we have it in Croatia. How many occupancys were there because of the tenant's rights and people don't have a single kuna debt? So I want to make this subject clear, and I want to give you all a vision of the Living Wall that should be solved. Maybe you won't accept it right away, but it's a state of civilization standard, and we certainly have to go in that direction. Here I am going to open up a simple story from 2007 when a tenant complained to the Constitutional Court after the decision of the communists from Opatija when the water was shut down because of the debt. The Constitutional Court then ruled, you know I don't appreciate the Constitutional Court much, but in this case, he did a good job, the court ruled that water should not be excluded that it was the right of those tenants. So debt exists, no one erased debt, debt remains, but you can't, as clearly as it says in the decision to charge that debt by shutting down the water. The connection stays, you use still water, and we'll be long, we'll already find the model in which we'll do it. The same property thing, the civilization reach, the human right, the human right to ban the only home, must go in that same direction. As for the situation and the real situation, I can't agree that it's just 90 families a year. Here are several of the most exposed cases of mirage Cvetkovic, Vukić etc.. As I recall, back in the '90s, those disputes were back in the '90s, who knows when those properties were sold, a lot, long before the electronic auctions. How many of these disputes with tenant rights where property has been established long ago and only now come these conjectures, only now come these executions and they become current. So we have this whole history of electronic auctions, which is reflected in the future because of the slowness of the system. So the problem is a lot harder. And besides, I want the right condition to be determined. I see you haven't asked the Ministry of the Interior, the MUP, how many times did the police have to assist in... Real estate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those data should also be relevant. Here in this law that I don't like because it takes a measure of performance over real estate, of the only home on social grounds that it isn't for us. We can go in that direction, it can be a step forward, but it should be a measure at human rights level like this with a water case. No one can take your water, you can't without water, like you can't without food, like you can't without shelter. That way we should go. Therefore, I fear that if this measure is implemented that will happen and I have seen it many times before that the Republic of Croatia will have to delegate these citizens because they will not and will not be able to get out of these apartments, not because they are evil or I don't know what, but simply have no place to go. And alternatively, if the state is going to put people in apartments, I'm afraid that spending over a few years, especially if a real estate tax is introduced, and many people are already on edge today, and where they get a few thousand kunas a year to pay more of that tax property that, therefore, will increase that burden multiplely and that it may already be even at a level of one billion kuna for the state budget over a short period of time. Therefore, the state should not look to plant its back here if it is not necessary, the burden should be transferred to the banks. The burden should be transferred to the banks. And enough of those fat bank lies about how they're going to collapse the market one way or another. We listened to those lies. We heard them say that if a conversion was made that they would collapse banks, they weren't, that if the currency clause was abolished that they would collapse banks, they wouldn't. There's not much to say that the topic is extensive, so I'm going to explain things through the debate and I'm glad it's another reading. I say we have to look that way. The financial system is so set up that not everyone can repay the loans. Remember the report of the Croatian National Bank 17.2% of loans are bad loans and will never be charged and let that be our main point of leadership. Here's my word, my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2132	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of the debate on behalf of the Living Wall, I would like to look at some of the general features of the executive law so that we can compromise the proposed changes and may later offer appropriate solutions. This slightly longer introduction is needed for reasons because today there is one of the most criminal laws that the Croatian Parliament has ever brought against its own people. It's a law passed by the HDZ government, soullessly implemented by the SDPs, followed by the HDZ and MOST government, and today we hear an incredible claim from the opposition orders that the people in charge are guilty. Namely, the basis of the Executive Act, which has been implemented for 5 years in Croatia, has created an executive mafia, one of the prodigal courts, public notaries, lawyers, bankruptcy managers, debt enforcement agencies, politicians and classical criminals who have thrown on the knees of Croatian citizens, especially poverty and middle class. In Croatia, more than 7 million executions have been carried out in the last 5 years with the basis that various intermediaries mostly took 7.5 billion kunas and billions of euros respectively. Based on this, these fees, this wealth I repeat they took from the poor, they bought expensive cars, yachts, private planes, they ate champagne, caviar, they flew to the Maldives, in the Caribbean while honest Croatian citizens continue to work hard trying to save themselves from a debt that has no end. The executive law protects only and only the believers, it does not protect debtors, it is a one-way road which, therefore, clearly represents one injustice and violence. That's what the Croatian public is all about. We have heard that the number of citizens who have been executed and blocked will actually be increased by a European executive order. There is nothing to say here about the protection of protected tenants, there is not a ban on secret activities, there is no protection of the home of the family, there is no change in the provision that someone's property can be sold, someone's home for 3/5 values, or that it can start a performance over the property by very small amounts, no maximum amount of costs and interest on the principal of the debt is determined, and no other intermediaries are eliminated, let's say that the open interest rate that rarely increases the principal debt by more than 20 times. You don't believe me? Here I went today to the Croatian Bar of Law to calculate the cost of the commission. I wrote that I owe two kunas. Here's a program you can try at the stop. So I owe 2 kuna and I have to pay for the composition of the proposal 75 kuna and VAT, the public record award 60 kuna and VAT, the actual expenditure of 30 kuna and VAT, the public record cost of 30 kuna and VAT, the certificate of power and the exercise of 30 kuna and VAT, the acquisition of the certificate of power and the execution of 250 kuna + VAT, the composition of the proposal for the delivery of the solution to the implementation of 37 kuna and VAT and the subsequent removal of the solution 30 kuna and VAT. The cost of the procedure for my 2 kunas is 678.12 kuna. Well, this isn't about interest, it's about loaning Bible proportions. The debt of 2 kuna was increased 330 times. And you're all looking at it calmly, and you're still introducing the European Executive Act. Why didn't you talk about it while there was a referendum on the EU, why you didn't tell the citizens what was waiting for them, but you said they had jobs waiting for them and allegedly a pay increase. In this Implementing Law, human law of proportionality is not respected. So this is where it's mentioned that the house can be sold for a debt of 20 thousand kuna, so that it can begin the commission over the property. So can I because someone owes me this glass of water to sell your car? So it's simple, it's a European Court of Human Rights convention, so that's not fiction. Why not study European practice when you are already implementing European laws? You can't sell something worth 1,000 kuna for a 2 kuna debt. Why 20 grand, why is this provision now introduced so that for 20 thousand kuna can be sold real estate? Well, because it's been determined by American card houses, Diners, they have consumer loans for 20 thousand kunas, and it allows them that if they don't pay back, let's say someone bought the kitchen furniture to sell him the whole house, the garden, whatever it has. Is that fair? Will the number of executions be reduced by your amendments to the law or increased? Also the demand agency, what did you do to ban them? Does any of the MPs know what the ownership structure of these agencies is? None of them are Croats, they're Germans, Greeks, Hungarians. Check it out. What are their methods of working? Threatening, day-to-night harassment by phone calls. Everything that's not forbidden is allowed by them. How is it possible that a bank or a card office or someone else doesn't want to cut the debtor's single kuna costs for some deal to sell to the Debt Insurance Agency by 30% of the principal. Why aren't these issues settled? Who will forbid... B2 capital and such companies? So these are all issues that are not resolved here, and there is also no question of how it is possible not to perform a regression, a Christmas card, a jubilee reward, a fee for a separate life but at the same time not to be paid into a protected account. And then you had this summer a bizarre situation so that the regression shouldn't be completed but it had to be deposited on liquids where it was done again. Why aren't they protected from doing at least this election board fee, the election commissions that went last week? Why didn't the government do something about it and these people made it possible for you to be here. So a lot of things in the amendments to this Implementing Law are not, a lot of questions aren't open, and these changes that are offered are therefore completely insufficient. No single account will be decommissioned by them, and none of them will be stopped. Citizens don't have time to wait for Mr. Hrelja on your guard and slowly and patiently so in 10 years there will be some improvement. Citizens need solutions right now, they're crazy about it, they're sick of them. If you want to help them, then help them by passing this law by an urgent procedure but with important changes and modifications compared to what you have suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2133	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Synchie Varge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It would like to add to the opening statement, or to the presentation of a colleague, Sinčić in the section in Article 18, that is, amendments and additions to Article 131a of the Law. Namely, this is about the right to accommodation, and now there's a small gap between the set and what's written here in this regulation. So I'm just going to give it through an analogy of an example. Ms. Neda Šijan Jelovac has had a solution for a year and a half from the competent authority to have the right to stay in a state apartment. The state administration's office keeps her on the priority list and keeps saying she'll get the right to an apartment the moment she becomes available. She's not personally in the process of execution. Therefore, it is as a social case, like all our other protégés who are in such a situation have the right to accommodation, cannot realize it. However, now we will have executives who will suddenly not only have the right to an apartment, but a cash fee of nine average salaries if the apartment is not available and there is a discrimination in our society in that class of society. Here I am also proposing to the legislator to consider this, that this discrimination must not occur because either this part must be denied or it must then be made possible for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2135	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2136	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Varg, you have well warned the problem that many of our citizens, for whatever reason, can't reach social housing or this hour, that there are great rows of waiting. I know from my own experience and what the situation is in the city of Zagreb because many people have spoken to us for help. At the same time, there's a precedent that when the mayor shares apartments then it's recorded, and when he deposes people from the apartments, then there's no cameras other than ours, I guess. The problem of the Republic of Croatia and its management of real estate is known. And it is questionable, in fact, that exactly what real estate is and within what period of waiting someone will be able to settle, so I would like to have answers in this debate or at least for another reading of such questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2137	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2138	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. I wanted to relate to Sincic's exposure and say that the problem is not just the work, i.e. The problem is the creation of these performances themselves. We have today and an extremely strong debt doctrine in force, enormous debts. 350,000 people are in a blockade, the state is in charge, companies are in charge. We need to find economic models to reduce these debts. And I think we need to make it a united force. Therefore, I commend the MOST's initiative to address this problem, there are some holes. However, I appeal to them and to HDZ as they are now in power, to consider in the future new economic models that will really reduce these huge debts. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2139	Thank you. The honourable representative Sincic will answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2140	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a fellow Scybol, you've given a good warning of new economic models. The world has never evolved faster, and we have to look to the future, which will be 10 years from now, in 20 years, in 30 years. However, we see that we have not yet been able to solve, say, the issue of housing law that has been going on for 20 years. These people are scared every day if someone's going to decommission them or not to disintegrate them. And instead of a country that has cooked up the whole problem, which has therefore created the whole problem, which has baffled the owners and owners themselves throughout that period, and this problem has been solved in numerous neighbouring countries of the former state. Here's just one example. I'll also point out if I'm not mistaken that this is who was here listening to the State Audit report in the last term of 31 and a half billion kuna has the RH value of real estate, so it's owned. Not all apartments, of course. At the same time, some 800 million kunas, if I'm not mistaken, go for some rents a year, so space, business spaces for the needs of ministries, agencies and others, so the bodies of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2141	Thank you. Now, the distinguished representative Sincic will be replicating the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2142	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I wanted to relate to the debate of my colleagues, Bunjca, when it comes to accessing information. In our work for many years, we have sent letters to the institutions of the state, so from some ministries, that is, at local levels, cities, municipalities, which are bodies within cities and municipalities. However, often you can't get information or you can't get it on time. And that's what needs to be changed. So how can we discuss the right situation and the right solutions when we don't know the zero state, we don't know the current state, because institutions don't give us that information. Here, I've sent a lot of parliamentary questions in my last session, and I've never gotten an answer that I'm really sorry about. Here I call on the ruling majority to correct such practice, and I call on them because they now have the power to get the right information, to get all the information, to know the zero state and that we can discuss it better and that we can come up with a solution. Because if we don't know it, we won't do it right. Here, use your power for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2143	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2144	Dear colleagues Sinčić and Bunjac, I would like to thank you on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists for a very constructive discussion, especially by respecting your experience and knowledge in the procedures of the performance that are numerous and your activation in such cases. You yourself have found in your discussions that this is one of the worst and most harmful laws that has been passed in the Croatian Parliament at the expense of those most vulnerable groups of our citizens and therefore we, in the Most Independent Lists, agree. Therefore, it is not your finding that we, with past governments, have participated in the implementation of such a law. We were just when we came into a position so that we could change this law and start preparing its changes and additions. You could see that from our proposal, old ministries and old names remained. So, you can see that we've been working on this proposal since the last government. Of course, there is plenty of room for improvement in this proposal. That is why there is also a public debate ahead of us involving all relevant institutions and stakeholders. And if you feel that such a law cannot be improved I urge you to gather the parliamentary majority around a whole new bill, you will also get our support if it is suspended and if it solves more problems than this law. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2145	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Sincic will answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2146	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here I want to stress first of all that I filed in the last session, somewhere I think it was the 4th month, a proposal to amend the executive law, hoping that the ruling majority would then launch the initiative. You shouldn't have put my proposal on the agenda, it could have been rejected so you put yours on. It is important that things change and that the greater the number of our citizens, the easier and the better. I'd like to point out that this is a very complex problem. Here's only in this proposal, which of course isn't final, a dozen things are proposed to change as... the second stage of one-year delay, right to accommodation, increase in the amount of remuneration, delivery of the OIB, sanctions for double fees, etc., etc. [[You don't understand.]] The executive process is a complex process and a long-term process I have convinced myself of my practice. So we've had cases even 20 years went from beginning to self-injection. And I say all these cases like that, there's a lot more waiting for them, it's going to spill over to the future, and that's why the situation is much worse than it shows. Just look at the increase in real estate performance, from 2002 to 2010, I don't know. So 21 times the number of real estate executions has increased. I'm saying... But it's one trend that's growing and I say we need to know exactly what's going on. [[You don't understand.]] We didn't get any information here for '14. And '15. and we could have gotten them. Therefore, more information is a better starting state and a better solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2147	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2148	Dear counterpart Bunjac, you must be very careful in your expression and be careful what you say because you mentioned one category of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have really come one cross road but do not fall into this problem at all, and it is about protected tenants. They carry their cross path and their cross. These are the only citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have never received a tenant right over the apartments they live in and who have suffered all these years of harassing owners who want to sell real estate and the protected tenant is a burden on that property and its right. Therefore, you must be careful not to mix pears and apples. Secondly, I allow you to call me for the spoken word, I have no problem that's part of democracy. But I have to answer what you said about the citizens being crazy about it. I must tell you that a group of citizens before whom I am here in the Croatian Parliament who have done their life and working life fairly and who are receiving small pensions, who first settle their obligations towards the state, according to the municipality, according to the city, according to communal fees, etc. and only then do they have to eat with what remains are they crazy of this pulsism and ease of borrowing in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2149	Thank you. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2150	Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members, you speak on behalf of a socially endangered category of citizens, it is commendable in any case, but I cannot believe that from the position of opposition you praise HDZ law and MOST which essentially does not help that social category. So, you said this was a good law, you said it was the citizens who were in charge of the debts. It's not their fault, it's the system that was designed to trick citizens and protect only the one who gives credit, who owes the citizens. Citizens are not lawyers and do not need to know the ways in which they can be protected, but here we have different institutions like the CNB that should have done so. We have the Ministry and we have the Government. What have you done in the last four years, you've been a member of the government, say, to protect citizens from illegal RBA cooperatives? Here. And now, after all, instead of finally criticizing everything that's happened, you're actually in agreement with the authorities, and let them just keep doing what they've been doing because these changes to the law don't really change the whole thing. I expected more consistency from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2151	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2152	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'd like to tell my colleagues, Sincic and Bunjec, that they're going from the assumption that someone here in the Parliament is actually listening to what they're saying and that they're interested, and I see from everything we've been saying in these five years, that none of what we're proposing in the law is included. So neither is it included that the cost of the execution can be greater than the amount of the execution, which is the most enormous problem because you have a debt for water of 100 kunas can be paid to you by 800 kunas, and you have been suspended secret mirages, nothing. So it's clear from the plane that the proposal of this law is to make so-called. I would call it a slow euthanasia of citizens or executives who are trying to get out of their homes peacefully and then offer themselves to them, I don't know, 18 months that the state will pay for their accommodation, and when it's 18 months, they'll eventually be disbursed again. Nor does this law touch the question of tenants at all. What about tenants who don't have rent, who have families, who have children and who are simply forced, you just don't have money to fly out. What will this government do for these people? Ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens who must look at all this, listen and endure what they say to you one great nothing. So the tenant's gonna have to fly out of the family, have no right to any protection, no substitute property, zero, nothing. And it's also clear from the plane that's causing it, and it's causing the wrong CNB policy and the fact that money is being broadcast into circulation exclusively as a loan, and there's no money to pay interest. We are in a credit crisis, this crisis has no end and the agony in which our citizens are found will continue until the puppet government massacres them to the end, so until it takes away their last meadow, the last house, the last apartment until the state sells the last firm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2153	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond. Here you go. No, the replica was on a colleague of the Bunge. You can't contact your colleague Sincic because the replica was on a colleague of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2154	The chairman didn't answer for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2155	Then nothing. Okay. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2156	Thank you. Here I can say, I was very careful to listen to Mr. Sincic when he exhibited and set up a good subject, but he missed the target. He started the topic of water, water billing, but the target wasn't the executive law. What we must agree certainly here all together that these basic components of one standard of living make up one partner relationship that our country, our local self-government towards its citizens, and as such we need to and respect them, therefore it cannot be done if there is no partner relationship. Partnership relations in the case where here I'm going to give you two examples, one is when you're a small debtor, and then someone sends you a warning, and then they deliver you a warning before you're off, and then you turn off the water, they take off your watch. And a partner relationship occurs when you owe a few million kunas for water, and then you become a partner to talk to, so you look for a solution, so some write-offs are done, but it's not the same for all. But I would agree if we could agree here that for these basic needs of human living standards, if we're talking about water, we're talking about electricity, if we can talk about digital information infrastructure, if we live in a digital modern age, and not in a stone age, that it should become something that is excluded from the possibility of being shut down. And that's why I'm just about to become part of a constitutional category, which is why we're going to meet some modern standards of life and provide all of us with this minimum of decent life, or else we're not going to achieve the purpose of the executive law, which is to preserve the standard of life and allow people the normal life that we all want in the EU. So we make this one important difference, but I certainly support it if we, like this esteemed House, will contribute to the initiative that such basic life support needs that we have become part of a standard that no one can fulfill.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2157	Thank you. The honourable representative Sincic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2158	Thank you, Vice President. Your colleague Panenić may not have listened until the end, I made a clear distinction between the debt, between the exclusion from the water system or the fishing of the extraction of part of the system, etc., etc. Therefore, supply must not be disabled, and debt resolution as such needs to be found other models. A similar thing is true in many other elements with electricity, water, gas, and finally home. I don't know, they say that in Finland the Internet is either constitutional law or how they define it, and we need to pursue those values. So you don't have to kill anyone right away, beat up on the basis of bad laws because the time has come in his life when there's no money, there's been a crisis, etc. It is necessary to enable our citizens to have a decent life in the 21st century and, based on solidarity and humanity, to meet and find a different model for both the executive and the perpetrator and the believer and the debtor to be satisfied. And, of course, we should strive to protect as many of these categories as possible by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2159	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlik... It's a pumpkin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues from the Living Wall, your debate in order to help those who really need help, I will say in those social cases I agree, but I disagree with your views when you do not respect the first applicable law. The current law certainly has its shortcomings, so it is in the procedure of change. And I believe that exactly where this topic is for you, that parent with whom you have come to the Parliament will just give your contribution to making this law right and to satisfy what you say makes it possible for all citizens to live normal lives. But I would also ask you one question, in which way to make that life and that high standard possible without people paying for it. These formulas I don't think have yet but maybe you're like the Living Wall that you made your own, I'll say the election campaign on that subject and it looks like you're moving on without contributing exactly how to protect those perpetrators. Because the executions are not only carried out by banks but also by units of local self-government and what Mr Panenic said, municipal companies, states. I ask the question in which we will prevent those who manipulate the laws of the Republic of Croatia and you are also trying to disobey the law and call on citizens to disobey and not comply with their obligations to this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2161	Thank you. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, during today's debate and further discussion in the second reading, we will propose concrete legal solutions. For a solution to the debt crisis, it will certainly be a comprehensive solution that will primarily come from one model of the new economy but also from the amendments to the executive law itself. So we're not claiming at any point that the debt should not be paid. We simply claim to be set up means a different model of borrowing and generally needs to be prevented from being robbed. So this is primarily about robbery. So every citizen who owes one kuna will finally pay at least three. And we've seen that there are cases that a single kuna will pay 10, plus 20 kuna. For example, if in Slovenia it is based on a credible document by electronic means, it means that the person himself is either a natural or a legal person who submits an internet application for an enforcement without any mediator, no public notary, no FINA, it does not exist. So the entire application for an execution costs about 20 kuna. And we just saw that for 2 kunas we have to pay 678 kuna procedures that last a total of 10 minutes if and so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2163	Thank you. We'll move on to the next club of MPs and that's the SDSS on behalf of which the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2164	I thank you, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I will, on behalf of the SDSS Club, state our position on this proposal to amend the executive law. The executive law for those of us who have done little doing this profession is a very important segment of the legal system, especially the modern legal system, in the way it operates today in these areas. And he has a very complex role, so how to balance the needs of quick and efficient collection of someone's claims that are real someone's property and the need to preserve some social component today in society and to protect in some way the believer that we are trying to create here today is a serious topic. And it's a very, very demanding job, almost impossible, especially today when you have about 300,000 blocked citizens and when you point to this need for some social sensitivity. That's why I think for a debate like this, it takes a certain broad debate to change the law. I agree with my previous colleagues who made a pretty good argument. And we think this thing doesn't have to break over its knees no matter how much there's a certain social need for some quick reaction. As a rule, there are two interests in this matter itself. Interested in an executive is that as soon as possible the interests of the perpetrators are charged, that the various means of legal remunerated the procedure so that it does not create a more favourable situation of its own to settle the debt because it always hopes that a situation in life will happen and that the money will come to pay the debt. And so the procedures in the performance average lasts over three years, which is not a small period. The data says that in the last five years, around 127 000 real estate executions have been launched in the Republic of Croatia, which is a large number. Out of that number of 5.5,000 debtors have been left without an apartment so far, other requirements have been settled by settlements, statutes, or procedures still persisting and have voluntarily emptied the apartment somewhere around 5.000 386 thousand debtors. It's not a small number, it's an army of people who are under direct attack from the very ends. And the truth is, I agree with a colleague who said that in this whole procedure many people are quite mixed up, using this other person's misfortune and making good money, and that should be the end of it anyway. It is a great truth, I repeat here, that in 2015, the previous Government, no matter what they think, had one good attempt at correcting the rules themselves, so they brought amendments and additions to the Executive Act in several key things. The first public auction was held, carried out since 2015 through FINA, with an electronic public auction, which is a very good thing. The other thing, it's being sold, so a very important thing, real estate is being sold in two circles. In the first round, offers must be, must not be below four-fifths of value, in the second round below three-fifths, there is no sale of real estate. So real estate is not sold, because real estate can't be auctioned twice and sold. And it remains in that property, the one who has not had the opportunity to settle in the area has to move out, remains for the next 12 months, and that decision makes a decision which makes sense. Because only a court can deprive one's rights by its decision and, in that case, enter into the right of authority of an enforcer who seeks execution. So it's all logical and it's an attempt by the previous government to improve this law. And I think that's what they did. Now we have a proposal in a few things, and I think it's a key thing, the topic is about real estate performance because it's also the hardest part of the performance. If you lose real estate, the roof over your head is practically questioned by the whole existence and purpose of life. So, the first change proposed by MOST here is that the postponement of a year should also be recognised by those categories of social cases that do not have income, which do not have their own regular income. So far, only those with incomes have been able to postpone their performance, assuming that in those years they will be able to settle their obligation. Now it's a very good initiative that we support. The fact that a category that does not have income is given the opportunity to delay from 12 months. And the other key thing that is proposed here is that people who have completed the procedure of the execution, so the procedure is over, they have to move out, and here it's said if they move out voluntarily, not in the way we watch it on TV, that the ZID is blocking the performance, and then the police intervenes, and as in the movies about Charles Dickens, when we see those people with black hats violently doing something about it. So in this case, the proposal is that if you give up your property peacefully into the social case category and then you are assigned priority property owned by the state through the social care centre or alternatively paid an 18-month lease directly through the social care centre. In principle, it's not such a bad idea if she's human and noble. We support it because our category of people felt very good about what it means when someone kicks you out of your apartment and kicks you out of the street in the '90s, so somewhere around 30, 40,000 people are violently expelled from their apartments. So that's a familiar fact, and that's why we support it as an idea to fix this thing, but as a legalist, we have a few questions. We think the weak link of this whole social care initiative is because we don't think they have enough capacity to follow the whole thing. We think there's an additional constriction with the existing items, and now that we give them the obligation to deal with these things, we're going to put extra weight on them. The lack of clear criteria is something that the welfare center will not be able to implement in quality. We said the principle of things, but we didn't say the criteria to do it. And we also have some experience with the social care centre, some centres that are right in that position where they decide who is who they use some way for themselves, and even in elections they abuse in a way that even certain pressures on people, especially those who host them, etc. etc. Therefore, we express the reserve that a welfare centre could be a quality transmission of this legal solution. The other thing that we're asking the proposer is if we've promised very broad arms and told you first you'll get state property. How we're going to solve cases and situations where 15 years of people are waiting for housing, we have about 300 cases we need to solve this year. How are we going to solve 2006 cases of former tenant rights holders that we have to solve this year? We haven't solved the renovation and in all somewhere around 3,000 demands of this kind of state must be resolved this year, and we say we will make the housing and real estate available to the state. I say it's an easy promise, and that's not how it's gonna work. The third question of ours is we question if we enter into this whole process how the banks will react, whether they will be provoked to introduce any additional restrictions and enhanced executions. I wish I was wrong. And I finally think that the explanation that this will make better use of free property and better maintain free property by the state completely unfounded, you don't expect that someone who is a social case and lives in a social apartment for 18 months and doesn't have the money to pay the loan war to invest in the maintenance of that state property? It's quite an incoherent explanation. And I don't think that thing stands. We agree that it's time to inform people who are on top that you don't come to the cash register at some mega market, so you don't know that your card's blocked because of the parking lot, you're surprised and you're embarrassing there. So that's what happens in life. The penalty for what you've charged twice for 400 kuna is a ridiculous punishment. So you're here saying that with 400 kuna you're going to punish someone who's received, who's charged past the application. It's usually called baseless acquisition, and it's completely different to regulation not in this way, and especially not with a fine of 400 kuna. And finally, Mr. Penar here asked what caused this condition and what happens after those 18 months are consumed and that poor guy, he'll be 18 months gone, he won't turn around, he'll be in the same position he was in 18 months ago. So, I'll tell you some data from FINA. Tax administration data say up to 1000 kuna in the country receives regular monthly incomes as a salary or as a pension somewhere around 260 thousand people up to 1000 kuna. Up to two-and-a-half thousand kunas receive 43% of the people of 2 million 700 received some fees. It's about a million kunas, or about a million people. So a million people receive an existential minimum of up to two and a half thousand kuna. That's what the statistics say, that's the IRS data. Up to five and a half thousand kunas considered an average salary receive only 104 thousand people. 16 thousand salaries receive 10 thousand, between 50 and 100 thousand salaries receive 550 persons, and over 100 thousand salaries receive 160 persons registered in the Tax Administration in the Republic of Croatia. So, these 43% who receive two and a half thousand kuna pay is the consummation of what we're doing right now and that's the cause of the whole story. The Swiss who ruined the credit rating of all people brought them into debt slavery and the fact that we did not create an economic environment to receive a decent salary of 5,000 kuna, but the average salary is somewhere around 2,000 kuna. And that's why it's happening with the law of conduct, the reason we didn't pay, the reason why there are 300,000 blocked people in this country. We can change this law in various ways, modify it in various ways, improve it in various ways in a nomotechnical sense. Until we solve the essence of this, we will still have this debt agony in our country. We think that this law should go to another reading and that it should, therefore, be further thorough and publicly discussed and from some other relevant factors in society, and finally from public notaries and from law groups should and banks say something about this and then bring one quality change so that it is not just a populist measure but that really those people who are targeted by this law have some benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2165	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused several replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Silvan Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2166	Dear fellow Horvat I am grateful that you have explained here certain social anchors and protection of debtors. Not only have we remained on the claim that this protection is exclusively a believer, i.e. those who give money and believe that we are in the same position to appreciate this increase in the protected share of wages and pensions if it is below average to three quarters from two-thirds to three-quarters, this precisely refers to these 43% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that you mentioned. But I'm also grateful for the part that you explained that there's not much in the executive procedure, although there's always speculation about real estate or mixing. Nicely explained how the first auction was going, the second auction. Of course, it precedes the real estate assessment to go to auction at all. What especially motivated me to report for the replica is the second part of your debate where you say there are many strangers in this social part of solving the right to an apartment in people who have lost their property, or their apartment. I think there should be another additional dimension that needs to be lit up, and that doesn't matter if someone stopped paying regular commitments because he lost his job or gambled his salary at the bookies. So we're entering a very delicate area of individual approach to resolution, and that's not how well you said the current composition of the Social Care Centre. They definitely can't do that and it is certain that there is still a need to change the mass of legal provisions with this law to implement it as imagined.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2167	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2168	Thank you, colleague Hrelja, for accepting these particular parts of my exposure. So, I definitely think the weak link in the whole process will be the Social Care Center. We have certain experiences and knowledge, etc. So, without the intention of telling you now, people don't want to or don't want to do well, but I just think that with this legal solution we're going to overcrowd ourselves with additional obligations for which they're not staffed. And it's going to be a very big problem for us and that whole then, the whole initiative that's basically a good one that we support is going to be just one good public declaration and a dead letter on paper, and in life it's going to be a big problem. Second thing, you said the sentence was out of a job. We keep avoiding the debate about key things, and these are the characteristics of working relationships. The fact is that in the last amendments to the Labour Act, in the Republic of Croatia, we have given the opportunity for the basic form of working relationship to be a working relationship for a certain period of time. Some statistics say that 78% of the working relationship, the form of working relationship, is a working relationship for a certain period of time. We who are, that's how we do it know what the difference between indefinite and certain means. When you're on time, so you're not creditworthy, you don't have the right to some kind of life vision if you're going to buy an apartment on loan, buy a car, move out, or so forth. And besides, your income doesn't come regularly. And that's why people are insolvent, which is why they fall into debt slavery. I have cases of people working 17 years indefinitely in a large private chain. He works so he breaks up for 17 years and people have already come to terms with the fact that they're working in a semi-slave relationship. And that's the thing that we keep avoiding public speaking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2169	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2170	Thank you. A respected colleague from the SDSS said the state should negotiate with banks. However, the State which is sovereign in it are legal entities subordinated to the State and are not equal to or superior to the State. We have a situation here that for every law we make, we have to go to the banker for negotiations, outwit them instead of telling them ladies and gentlemen if you don't like it here in the Republic go out, we don't need you. We have our own central bank, we have the power to broadcast our money, businesses will still stay there after them, people who need banking services are still there. Gentlemen dear, goodbye, aufwiedersen, goodbye. Secondly, I would like to say one thing because Mr. Representative of the Serbian National Minority has that song, Chavoglava, and it says, "Our hand will catch up," and we now have a situation where people who have fled from Croatia just because of the fact that they are now coming across the EU after these new changes of the law. So this will be so combined now that simply across the EU people will be able to perform. And this is when I call on all the young people who are looking at this to not allow this criminal system to massacre them, to return to our homeland, and to fight together the dictatorship of the elite, or that large capital that negates every democracy, every expression of will and every expression of opinion. And I call on all MPs here to stand by the people, not only to make some cosmetic changes but to really change the system. Because if the system doesn't change, we'll be fine, and the citizens will still be bad. So nothing's going to get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2171	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2172	Dear colleague Pernar, you have some of your thesis, some of which I agree with, of course, and some I disagree with. I did not say that banks are being negotiated but I said that this law should go through a wide debate and in this context I said that it is not bad to hear the opinion of the representatives of the banking sector on this matter, I said so and nothing else. I don't listen to them, and I have no intention of listening to them, and I don't know who's gonna catch up with them. The fact is that, within the EU market and financial common market and space, there are unique rules of conduct and I think it is an illusion to believe today, in addition to all the technologies, that someone who has remained in Croatia should flee to Hungary to avoid the debt. It's an illusion to believe. Don't send people this kind of unfounded message or any hope. If you owe the bank here and you'll go to another EU country, and now that debt will disappear, you won't have to pay for it. No, no, so you don't have to give people that kind of hope, but in any case, you need to get a big grip on all these processes that we're looking for here today to amend the executive law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2173	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2174	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, I have listened to your debate and you have made a series of interesting remarks, or you have opened a series of issues that are in principle going in the direction in which I am thinking about this law, which is that the applicant's intensity is not controversial but is a controversial way in which the motioner plans to achieve its intentions. You pulled an interesting parallel that involved getting kicked out of your apartment and said it made you feel a certain sensitivity to these measures. However, you're a lawyer like me, so you know that most of those people who were then kicked out of their homes were holders of housing rights, and that housing rights were not property. What am I saying that for? Because this law, for example, would not have protected these people from their dwellings by judicial means and not the way they are. Because this law only protects those persons who are subject to the commission for the collection of money demand, and not the commission against which some other requests are carried out, e.g. The search for a transfer to the property. So, if you're wanted for surrender in possession of a property where you were a tenant, there's no protection. And that's part of the problem intensities of the promoter that I think we should talk about. And that's why I totally agree when you say this is a proposal to conduct a broader debate. And you've seen the proposal for conclusions sent by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, and I hope you will join and support the idea that the government that is expert in law-making prepares a final bill and that the Government first consults all those you mentioned in your debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2175	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2176	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with you that the Government should make one whole proposal to amend this law, of course, by looking at all that we are saying today in this debate. Today, there will probably be a lot of suggestions and suggestions by the end of the day. The fact is that the amendments to this law only go in order to provide for about 100 people so far, 100 cases. Which, of course, is not to be underestimated, and one problem case and one life story and one life tragedy. But it is also a fact that the mass of other cases will not be able to consume this legal solution and that it does not apply to a much larger number of people who are also one life story very difficult and that this law will not cover and will not protect them and will not even give them any satisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2177	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2178	Thank you, Vice President. I wanted to look back on the two thesis you mentioned. One again is the issue of housing law. A quiet genocide was actually committed on these people. No government had the will to solve the problem, the problem that remained from the former state that it was. Simply these people and owners, the owners are left with time, since the tenant's right is not inherited, is simply waiting for these people to get older because some are there for seventy years, and then the owners to take their property. And it should be noted that a huge percentage is here after my consultations with an association that deals with household law somewhere over 90% of the owners of such properties are actually buyers, people who came to own these apartments for a small amount of money decades ago and who are now waiting to enter into the property. The second thing, these 43% of the citizens you mentioned were about a million with very low incomes up to 2,500 kuna and imagine now throwing them more real estate taxes. I ask where they're going to pay for it. He won't. And what I'm asking of all of you here, don't do it to people who haven't returned because they can't return because they can't give away new burdens that we all know they won't be able to do because it's literally going down the street. No one's saying you shouldn't pay back your debt, but you don't have to beat anyone because of these unreasonable accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2179	Thank you. The answer will be given by a distinguished representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2180	The esteemed colleague Sincic, therefore, is true that in one period very large injustice and human and formal justice have been done towards a large number of people who have been illegally evicted, this is what we say today, in fact they have been violently expelled from their apartments in which they lived for many years, and besides that they have built through some of their companies through investments in so-called. the funds and that was supposed to be their property and they shouldn't have been touched on that property. However, we have what we have, they are now offered housing, but the problem is that this country's housing procedure today 2016 has not ended. I just said today, and I asked the question, how are we going to take care of those hundreds of people who are here on a social case, because they've been decommissioned, and if the previous state hadn't solved, let's say I have information that 2,800 people were supposed to be taken care of in the 9th month of this year? Only this year, which, according to certain criteria, should have been taken care of by the state, was it not. And that's why I think it's easy to make this promise that we're going to take care of these hundreds of people who've been hit by this kind of executive law. I don't think it's going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2181	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2182	Dear fellow Horvat, in your speech, you said that I would quote you "The interior of the executive is to be charged as soon as possible and the interest of the perpetrators which they later pay", I guess it is of interest to both of them that what they have signed and the obligations they have made towards each other to realize them as they have committed themselves. But I didn't answer the line because of that sentence, but because of one at the end of your debate where you wondered what would happen when that poor man's 18 months are up. One part was touched by fellow Tulio when he mentioned cities and municipalities, when the light cameras went out, when those who carried the police because they were protecting themselves as someone's interests would be looked forward to the evening on television, the next or the next days after that, those same people would appear in a city or a municipality and ask for some help because we do it daily, on the ground in cities and municipalities. And there are countless such cases and not just those cases in this sense that took some loans so they didn't return them, so they stayed because of some real estate is much, much more difficult cases than these. So if we're discussing something then we need to discuss that I or any of you or any of our citizens have taken some kind of commitment knowingly, that we must respect that obligation if possible. If it's not possible, if he's in such a situation that he can't return it to the state and institutions in one part, but to make a commitment for someone who's consciously entered into something, I think he's a little too populist. In that sense, we all cities and municipalities have also done the same due to some non-payments of our citizens, but also after these performances we try to find a model for helping these same citizens through co-financing of the rent, through paying for a variety of fees. But everything has some kind of reasonable time limit if a man is healthy, not disabled, not in any kind of health problem. I think it's a reasonable deadline that can be determined by the 18 months in which a man himself would have to fight for some kind of existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2183	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2184	Thank you. Dear colleague, I have said that it is generally the interest of the perpetrators to take the procedure away and they use it, so they do it by means of various means of law because the fact that these procedures take more than three years means that some of them last for more than three years. It means that however, the interest of people who are under direct hit by the Executive Act and the executive procedure to make it all a little bit prolonging, hoping that they will improve their living situation and financial position in the meantime, and that is one human relationship to the whole problem. When you talked about what day after I think that topic will be very soon again on the agenda because we are not going to solve the essence of the problem. It could also ask the question whether this law is affecting certain categories of constitutionality of the proposal. For we ask what is the matter with those who have already been done, what of those who have been expelled from their dwellings. We're asking what about the ones who pay neatly, are they in the same position as the ones who don't pay, for various reasons? We have not answered the question of the treatment of craftsmen throughout this situation who guarantee their entire assets for their business obligations. And most often lose their homes, lose their property because of some wrong business moves. Does some kind of executive, whether the executive law at this point protects them in the same way as all those who said at one point maybe I can pay and I won't pay for that loan but I'll pay for something else as a priority. So there's a series of things that need to be solved in a serious debate. That's why I said that this law, this law, should not be rushed, was sent to take care of that category of people, but it doesn't need to be introduced over the knee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2185	And the last replica is the distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2186	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow MP Horvat, you asked what to do with these people after 18 months. I just want to draw attention to that precisely thanks to MOST, our initiative and the bill proposal we all get together here in this assembly right now and we have 18 months to think about and to bring a quality solution to what with these people after 18 months and that while we're discussing these people aren't on the street what they are, let's remind ourselves there's been a case in recent years. So I'm essentially asking you if it's possible for you not to bother with that question which, after 18 months, you're just starting to work on it today, if at all possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2187	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2188	I didn't quite understand this last question of yours or what it was my obligation to as a representative of the SDSS to think about what to do after 18 months with a category of people who went bad with banks. I think you've just now confirmed with this replica of yours the whole, so the whole politics of this topic. You said we have 18 months, and then in those 18 months, we'll find a solution to what happens after 18 months. That's what you said. 18 months, people will be in the apartment, according to this solution, and then in those 18 months, we'll find a solution to what's behind it. So maybe you didn't think so, but you definitely said so.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2189	Thank you. Now we will move to the next Club of Representatives and that is the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia in the name of which the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic will speak. Here you go. One perhaps small remark only related to the previous entire discussion. Let me remind you that this is, we'll extend the time, that this is the proposer of this law, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. It is therefore not logical to ask that the government is working after all the changes that are coming, but will do so after the whole discussion. Here you go, buddy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2190	Thank you, Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'd like us all to be constructive. I think it's very good that the issue of amending the executive law has been raised. And in that sense, I've already made a series of proposals through the Justice Committee, so I'm going to repeat them here and explain them a little bit better. It is not enough to amend only the Executive Act, it is necessary to amend other laws, the Consumer Credit Act, the Credit Institutions Act, the Mandatory Relations Act. So we should look at everything in the package and change some other laws to make it easier to position potential perpetrators. So I'd start from the beginning what needs to be done not by entering into what law but in any case all of this that I'm going to say is not just about the executive law but also about these other laws. First of all, it is necessary to achieve maximum transparency so that it does not happen that the perpetrator does not have enough information about what will happen to him. And secondly, all information delivered to the perpetrators must be as cheap as possible, close to 0 kuna. The next thing to do is to ban the sale of real estate below two thirds of the market value. This should therefore certainly be incorporated into the laws not to sell real estate below two-thirds of the market value. It certainly needs to be prescribed and this will be likely to be the content of the future Housing Consumer Credit Act that must be made possible except for classical loans and so on. walk away option, so to allow any debtor who wants to borrow in such a way that if the problem comes, he can simply hand over the keys to his apartment to the bank and then there is no longer any debt. Furthermore, debtors who come to the problem when they realize that they can no longer really pay their credit in any way it would be good to allow the bank to be legally ordered again to allow the debtor to sell his real estate for 80% of the market value in that case. If, on the basis of the sale of real estate for 80% of the market value, the bank's claim is deleted and the other 20% of the value is paid on the same terms that the loan was then paid off, it would greatly facilitate the position of all debtors and I think it is very feasible. Furthermore, we know that in a collective court trial, a verdict was passed which decidedly decided that 7 out of 8 defendants were illegally changing interest rates because they had agreed on an illegal way of changing interest rates in loans. This is not the only case in all other loans in which banks negotiated variable interest rates before 1 January 2013. Therefore, in all such loans with a variable interest rate, the bank did not agree on a proper way of changing interest rates and all debtors in such loans have the possibility to repay their overpayments to the claim. If the debtor takes the case against the bank, it is necessary to legally determine that the bank, or the believer, does not have to be the bank, that the believer must not carry out the action until the trial has been brought to an end. When repaying the debt, we know that, according to the Law on Mandatory Relations, interest first goes, and then the principal, it should be reversed to pay off a part of the principal first, then a part of the interest and only at the end of the cost of the operation. The interest shouldn't interfere with the height of the principal. Public institutions that have strong legal services should not be allowed to use external legal services. So we have already shown in some ways how this can be solved, but this is necessary for all public institutions so whoever has a strong legal service should be prohibited from using the external legal service in the executive procedure. This is of course related both to financial and financial services-providing companies, companies providing financial services because they also have a strong legal service especially for the financial part of the business. In general, the costs of the implementation should be reduced as much as possible for the performances of up to 5 thousand kunas, for example. The maximum cost should be 500 kuna. Thus, all possible costs should be taken into account in some catalogue and the maximum cost of the implementation should be determined. If an enforcement is carried out, the account blockade should be prevented if the debtor is insolvent. It should also allow for some minimum amount in an account that must remain for example. 1500 kuna. It is also necessary to enable a man who has a problem with the performance to raise from his account at least 50 kuna a day. Limit the costs of the FINA, carry out exclusively a positive balance, so neither the permitted nor the unauthorised minus should be carried out. It is also necessary by law not to allow banks to voluntarily determine the minuses. The minuses must be negotiated. Now I would move on to the part concerning only the executive law, I think it's very argumentative and that we can in a very simple way protect a large number of potential perpetrators. Therefore, if a potential contractor has a property that meets exclusively his residential needs and needs of his family members, then it is necessary to keep some kind of housing minimum, unless the property has established a right to claim such property should be prohibited. So the necessary living space, the only real estate without a mortgage ban. The second thing, if the property has a claim, then the execution should be prevented up to some amount of 50 thousand kuna and not 20 thousand kuna as proposed. I believe that 20 thousand kunas are too small to be completed with complete real estate. And finally one of my most important proposals is the situation where we have these loans that are negotiated with illegal contractual provisions. So, I repeat in almost all the loans agreed before 1 January 2013 was agreed on a way of changing interest rates in an illegal manner. It is agreed on in a way that the interest rate is changed by the bank's decision. No parameters were agreed to change interest rates, and later on, on 1 January 2014, banks voluntarily set those parameters and apply them, but this remains illegal. The Mandatory Relations Act is clear, contractual provisions in price-related loans must be agreed, it is also clear as regards the general terms of banks where banks are called on to agree that changes in the general conditions are accepted without discussion. According to the Mandatory Relations Act, it is also prescribed that the general conditions apply only if they were known at the time of the loan. Therefore, no changes to the general terms of the banks are valid after the credit is agreed. Therefore, in all such loans, there are over 100 000 in which there are illegal contractual provisions on changing interest rates, it is necessary to prohibit the implementation of real estate as long as there is such an illegal contractual provision. In that case, what evidence would the bank have to give in the executive procedure? So the evidence would be that either by contract or contract annex he contracted with the debtor of the interest rate change parameter. If it cannot provide such evidence, it must not be allowed. I think this proposal is justified, that it's legal and that it's very simple to accept. And thus We would certainly protect over a hundred thousand debtors and potential doers among them. I have to relate to all this set, and now there is a situation with an unscheduled way of determining the parameters so that at the beginning of the contractual relationship, a fixed part of the interest rate should finally be determined, in a way that is taken away from the initially agreed interest rate at the time of the loan and that is a fixed part of the interest rate, and not what the banks did in 2014 when they set fixed interest rates in the middle of the contractual relationship which are very high and variable parameters very low. That's the thing. And another thing that would be very important is to finally prevent the execution of such a property as I said. So, the executive law certainly requires that such property be banned until the parameters are resolved at these variable interest rates. Here's so much from me for now. Actually, there's something else I wanted to say. There's another situation. We have these RBA cooperatives. So, RBA cooperatives were, in all likelihood, illegally doing business in the Republic of Croatia, so I also appeal to this esteemed House that Chapter IVb. The Consumer Credit Act applies retroactively. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the Consumer Credit Act in a way that prescribes that Chapter IVb. The consumer credit law applies retroactively. Therefore, for all credits contracted with illegal credit institutions, credit institutions that did not have an authorisation to operate in the Republic of Croatia. Here's so much from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2191	Thank you. And on your exhibit, we have more replicas. It's the first of those distinguished representatives of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2192	Thank you very much, Mr. Alexic. Your debate was quite professional and it appears that in some way you lived with the problems of the citizens, especially those that were in the problem of living loans, Swiss francs and all that went with it. But here I must now react as a representative and warn both you and all other colleagues and the Croatian public that today's announcements by Energy Minister Dobrovic about the closure of the Refinery in Sisak will reflect in this way that we will lose hundreds of jobs and that is just the beginning. After Sisak falls Rijeka, after Rijeka, the Croatian company INA will become only a wholesaler of the Hungarian company Please don't interrupt me. I'm talking about six hundred Croatian citizens losing their jobs. [[Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Maras I ask you to stick to the topic.]] I'm sticking to the subject. [[Intruder Reiner: I will interrupt you because I ask you to stick to the topic.]] That's the darkness. These people will come to work tomorrow because both HDZ and MOST support the closure of the refinery in Sisak. We don't support it. We want to, and tomorrow we'll be with these people, if we have to be on the track, to prevent oil from being delivered to Rijeka. We do not want our jobs closed for Hungarian jobs to be opened and for the Hungarian company to benefit from it. In Croatia, we must protect and this is also a matter related to this law. We need to protect jobs so that more people don't get into a situation where the execution applies to them. MOST and HDZ have capitulated under MOL and all I care about now is whether it has something to do with the former HDZ government, formerly, or Deputy Prime Minister Karamarko, and a consultant who worked for the Most, while counterpart Perovic, who is still a member of the HDZ, is still working for the Most We can't let the Refinery shut down in Sisak. [[Intruder Reiner: Time.]] For HDZ, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2193	My colleague Maras and you and I know very well that you have now abused this time and talked about something that is not about the subject. Don't do this! Don't do this! Of course, we all agree that we need to keep our jobs busy, though we need a lot more jobs than there is. But don’t abuse this stage for your political speeches in order to send messages to some who have nothing to do with today’s topic that is very important and that is very important for many people. So, colleague Alexic. Please don't argue with me. ... Don't answer me again, I'm warning you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You can't discuss or object to me. ... Read the Rules of Procedure. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I give you a warning. I'm giving you a warning because you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. ... Don't let me give you another warning. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'm giving you a restraining order today during today's session. ... Read your Rules of Procedure, and you'll see it does. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I said during today's review, today's session. Next up, mate. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2194	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have incorrectly applied Article 240. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament concerning Article 241 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because you were able to determine this measure relating to Article 241 throughout the day or during the debate, not the measure referred to in Article 240. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2195	That's exactly what I said. I don't think you got me right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2196	Mr. Vice President, if you don't know the measure referred to in Article 241 is a step away from the session. It's a measure that's pronounced for a dot or for a whole day. While subtracting a word refers to the current confiscation of the word that the MP makes. So if you want to take the word out, do it now, and if you want to get your colleague out of the session, then you can do it for the whole day of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2197	I think you've made a mistake, but good. Never mind. Let's keep going. I haven't told you a measure of distance from the session. Yeah, but when you get the word. Dear Representative Ivan Pernar has a word for replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2198	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like to say on this occasion that the matter of the refinery in Sisak is an important issue and that, although he has abused or violated the Rules of Procedure, I believe he has had at least 2 minutes to point out that. And as for the exposure of Mr. Alexic, what to say is otherwise than to be exposed to terror, the terror of banks that have lasted since '94. the year when the central bank is turned into a currency exchange, and the kuna is just a bonus for the euro. And in that model, there's simply no money to pay off interest. So the bank borrows 100,000 euros or francs and asks for 200. There's no such thing as 100 others. So, what's expected? Debtants are expected to pay back more money than is borrowed, and money is created exclusively by borrowing. So if we're all in debt, how are we as a society going to pay back more money than we have? It's paying back the debt in this model of Sisif's work. And finally, I asked Mr. Maric, former finance minister, and I asked him, Mr. Maric, the state has its own property and has its own debt, and now we see from year to year that this debt grows on one side, and on the other hand the assets are being sold out. What will happen when the debt reaches the ceiling and the country runs out of property? He told me he couldn't just explain to me what was going to happen. And I want this agony to be interrupted, to actually stop bankruptcy by a brief procedure that is being conducted over our country and our people and to suspend people's conduct over the only real estate. It's a minimum. If it were up to me, I'd suspend all the charges over all the funds the banks are carrying out because we're exposed to what the banks are doing is terrorism against the state where they're holding our citizens hostage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2199	Thank you. Here's Honorable Representative Goran Aleksic to answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2200	Well, I think I've made a series of constructive proposals and it would be good to discuss constructive proposals, not what happened and what happened because we're not going to get anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2201	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Vilibor Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2202	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague, Alexic, I'm always fascinated at first, not to say I'm shocked that at all, such loans that are de facto illegal are broadcast at all, that at all to the banks, 7 out of 8 banks as far as you've told them that they're going to be able to do it, that they get into these relationships that probably last for years, for decades, to get into them, and then they expect no one to notice, that no one will sanction them. That tells us exactly how little the regulator has done and how slow our judiciary is and how little our citizens have suffered. The question is how much longer will it take before this problem is solved, before some of the solutions that you've exposed here are applied, which, in principle, I support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2203	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Alexic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2204	Thank you, colleague Sincic. You're absolutely right, unfortunately the CNB did nothing to prevent loans with the Swiss franc currency clause as did the Austrian National Bank. The Croatian National Bank has done nothing to prevent banks from illegally changing interest rates. The Croatian National Bank doesn't do anything against illegally defined parameters at interest rates today. So the key to the whole problem is called the CNB, and a little less executive and legislative authority that still has a small loan because they have less expertise in that part. And too much executive and legislative authority has so far been subject to CNB's decisions and I hope that this will be changed in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2205	Thank you very much. The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2206	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic, I am very pleased that you have shown a fully justified and healthy methodological approach, unlike some colleagues who show a populist approach because you have pointed to a solution rather than just talking about the problem. What's good, I agree with all your exposure, but the taste of your exposure if you let me actually need to change the whole package of laws again, and not just this executive but that this intensity is very high quality and it's as well as I said methodologically access it because in every sense one law is related to another and if we start with the amendments of this law we've already opened up let's say Pandora's box and therefore automatically chain it will probably go to changing other laws whose amendment is absolutely necessary. I'm glad you showed this concise, clear approach and I agree with your debate, but I'm wondering if you've made any of the suggestions that you've made here now, are you planning to comply with the parent board, and as far as I understand you're sitting on that committee, then you're going to make a few amendments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2207	Thank you. The honourable representative Alexic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2208	I immediately make myself available to the MOST club for a working body, if any working group is needed, I am willing to cooperate in this task force and help with solutions. It is better to make solutions before the amendment is made than to make amendments. Here, that's my answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2209	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2210	Thank you, Vice President. Many Croatian citizens who have found themselves in an invisible situation in performances, in court proceedings, who used the services of banks of savings-credit cooperatives and others have many entered these contracts knowingly and thoughtfully with some last ultimate goal where they planned to achieve certain benefits. And that's why they found themselves in these situations. However, there is another group of people who, as a result of necessity and superstition, find themselves in such a situation, and in need because of the situation in our country and the loss of work, wages and others, so here I will read to you one Law on Mandatory Relations that could apply to this second group not to the first group but to the second group, meaning Article 329. The Law on Mandatory Relations “is a waste of a contract using an emergency or a difficult material condition of another’s lack of experience, greed or addiction contracts for himself or for someone of a third benefit which is obviously disproportionate to what he has given or done or committed to give or do. Such a contract is called a green contract, it is appropriately subject to the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, the consequences of integrity and the partial integrity of the contract," so our influence would be useful, if possible, to lower courts and to the Constitutional Court under this law to apply to these two groups of citizens without being excluded first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2211	Thank you. The honourable representative Goran Aleksic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2212	Unfortunately, what you're talking about, a colleague, can only be courted because it's hard to determine that some contract is greenish, very difficult, I know it from experience. We discussed it when we were trying to solve the problem "Franak". However, my proposals that I have made for the amendments to the Implementing Law are heading precisely towards the protection of all debtors who have contracted illegal contractual provisions. Therefore, if a large number of debtors were to be accepted, they would be protected until the contractual provisions were settled in a legitimate manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2213	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative Ivana Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2214	Here's my dear colleague Alexic, I've been listening very carefully to your discussion, she really has a concrete proposal in her. So you went into solving one of the causes and made a concrete proposal and it's good to see the desire to participate in solving these problems in collaboration with another club, other clubs. The system generates executions. So this is where we deal with the consequences right now, not the causes. I don't have time, but some predecessors have been saying what causes unemployment growth, so this refinery has ties tomorrow, it can generate a large number of unemployed. They'll start not being able to pay, there'll be executions, etc. It is therefore in positive correlation. Solve the causes, not the consequences. How does that look concrete? So in this case, which was referred to by MP Alexic, the bank will execute the debtor because it was illegally calculating interest, interest rates, and man cannot pay bigger wars, he goes on top. And if this bill stays only on what it is now, then he'll be kicked out of his apartment by social services for 18 months and there's no telling what's gonna happen next. So what's next? Therefore, here it is necessary to constructively help this law, or amendments to the executive law, make sense to solve the problem. So here I'm asking you, Agent Alexic, if the Supreme Court has ruled that banks are illegal, unilaterally changing interest rates why they're not being implemented because if you say there are about a hundred thousand such cases, now let's resolve it to prevent future potential thousands, to stop the preventive action so that thousands of new executions don't happen. So is it possible in your opinion to do that, why don't you respect the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2215	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2216	It is certainly possible to legally resolve the return of overpaid interest to the debtors, it was done by Hungary. Hungary returned the overpaid interest to the debtors and paid them back the exchange rate due to illegally charged exchange rates in their CHF loans. At present, however, we do not have any judgments other than a Zadar verdict against which no appeal is filed. It is known that in Zadar, a verdict is a powerful one where the lawyer received overpaid interest because the bank was illegally changing interest rates, but she was given the power of judgment only because no appeal was filed against her suit against the verdict. Unfortunately, our judiciary is very slow in solving this problem, and the situation is very obvious. The second thing, the CNB did not order banks to, on the basis of the Supreme Court ruling, which is very clear, which tells banks that they should no longer behave like this, so the CNB as a regulator did not prevent banks from acting like that. The banks continued to apply illegally increased interest rates and the banks again acted illegally when they set the variable parameters at the interest rate. Parameter variable and fixed portion of interest rate. So this body can certainly pass a law that would settle overpayments in all such loans, but in what way it solves it is now a little problematic because there are more possible solutions. One of the best solutions is one article of the Law by compulsory relations which says that if the contractual interest is not determined, when it is not contractually determined, then one quarter of the tight interest is charged. I think that would be the best possible solution for all debtors because there is a foothold in the Mandatory Relations Act. There is another way to apply the initial interest rate until the correct method of changing interest rates is legally determined. Therefore, one discussion would have to be held to determine how to resolve this, and it would be very good if there were a right to a rightful verdict before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2217	Thank you very much. We will now take a break up to three hours, and then, according to what the president of the Croatian Parliament announced, the prime minister will submit a report on the European Council meeting held on 20 and 21 October. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just for the sake of the Croatian public, please clarify. So we interrupt the debate on the executive law that is now under way to continue the debate on the second item of the agenda that we put in place this morning?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2219	That's exactly how the President of the Parliament announced it. Thank you very much. I'll see you at three o'clock. It's a 13.05 p.m. meeting. Now, as we have announced, we will continue to discuss the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Executive Act, first reading, p.z. No. Six. The next is the SDP club and the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2221	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'm going to start by saying that I'm extremely glad that Honorable Vice President Reiner is running this session right now at the moment I'm talking about something he said yesterday during the debate. And that's what I share. counterpart Reiner warned lawmakers not to call the government because of the content of this bill, not to call on the government to fix it because the government has nothing to do with this bill. This is a proposal from the Club of Representatives of the Most. Which is extremely unusual for the laws governing the process in the Republic of Croatia such as the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Criminal Procedure or, in this case, the Executive Act. And what Vice President Reiner pointed out yesterday was exactly one of the biggest problems of this law. What's this about? This law has a whole series of proposals that can be considered good by their intention in the direction in which the amendments to implementing legislation should go. However, none of these proposals are provided, neither of these proposals can function in practice nor satisfy the proportionality test established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia as one of the basic tests to determine the constitutionality or eligibility of a law. The first measure I'm going to talk about is the one that in this law has caused and the greatest attention not only to respected colleagues and colleagues but to the entire public in the Republic of Croatia, and this is a matter of enforcement over the only real estate. When we talk about the only real estate, we absolutely understand the intensity of this law and we absolutely support the intensity of this law. Well, it was during the SDP government that one of the first concrete measures was installed to protect the perpetrators whose only real estate is on the drum. We heard yesterday in a debate that unfortunately this measure did not take effect, unfortunately here we do not have a former and current justice minister that specifically the parliamentary deputies answered to us to the extent that the measure did not take place and that were its problematic points. However, we have a proposal from the Most Representatives' Club. and the proposal of the Most Representatives Club is very interesting because it makes the difference between a colleague and a colleague, makes the difference between the various perpetrators based on their level of property, so it honors those executives who had something to do with those perpetrators who had nothing. I fully understand that the problem of the person whose real estate is being sold and which will result in a loss of real estate is large, but dear gentlemen, you have installed the measure of protection of the perpetrators in the head of the executive law that regulates the payment of the money demand, and where it comes from non-money claims, so on. The usual moveouts because the person who lost her salary can no longer pay the rent there didn't do anything. Simply in the Christian spirit, you protected those who once had something, and those who never had anything, who cared about them. I am now looking here at this House several of my colleagues and colleagues who are the mayors of the places where they live. Why am I saying that? Because you give partial solutions, and yesterday, we heard from our esteemed colleague Kovac about the number of executive procedures carried out over real estate, because you only include those in e-scaths, not those whose real estate is sold before courts, and you have not taken into account what problems are already present in Croatian municipalities and cities that are obliged to provide accommodation to their socially endangered citizens. Yesterday, a colleague, Klaric, spoke about it, and I absolutely agree with what you said and the problem you pointed to. Ask your colleagues and colleagues about waiting lists for apartments in local self-government units. Ask if there is a single unit of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, and if it has every honour, which is for all social needs, all socially endangered, all homeless from its area managed to secure accommodation in apartments owned by that unit of local self-government. Before I became a parliamentary representative, I had the privilege of sitting in both the headship and the City Council of Pula, and I know what problems arise every year with the waiting list for the assignment of apartments. I know what problems arise every year when a local self-government unit has to draw some money from its small budgets to get new housing units in which to take care of the social needs. You don't take care of any of them, but with one partial solution of only 18 months, you take care of one and the only category of socially endangered. To paraphrase some colleagues who often come from your club, distinguished colleagues from MOST, you fire out a bucket of water. Yesterday, a colleague from the Living Wall asked you a nice question, and what after 18 months, then you're going to do again, throw out people who didn't manage in the meantime because they're not protecting those who have nothing, but you're only protecting those who had something and unfortunately lost it. However, this is just one of the problems of this law and only one of the problems why not all should be played by lawyers and not all should be played by the knowers in the field of one specific branch of procedural law such as executive law. For example, colleagues and colleagues, you have an amendment to Article 52. The law of law. I'm sorry there aren't any of my colleagues here from your ranks to explain to you the problem you've made by amending that legal provision. You have abolished paragraphs 8 and 9 of that article, which provide for the resolution of the appeal when a complaint against the solution to the case is made at the same time. Do you know anything about that, colleagues? I believe you don't know. Do you have any idea why such a solution has existed so far that at the same time a complaint must be addressed about referring to a lawsuit and a complaint against a decision on the matter? In order to ensure that the perpetrator against whom the exercise will eventually fall in a second-degree court would not have to file a case in order to declare the case unlawful until the second-degree court has decided on his appeal. This is how you get all the perpetrators to go after the appeal against the solution of the execution, and the appeal against the solution of the execution does not delay its execution, that they immediately go into litigation. You create new procedures, you burden the additional work of courts and you force people into additional costs. If you had conducted a consultation with the interested public, I'm sure there would be people in Croatia who would have shown you this. But you didn't. Let's move on. Article 15 of this Act, ban on real estate enforcement if the amount charged is less than 20 thousand kuna. Very good intensity. But you didn't say either in the opening statement or when you presented this law that this prohibition does not apply to obligations secured by the property law, meaning mortgage. So you didn't make sure this measure didn't apply to bank loans. Because I don't know too many banks that will give you credit without being secured by mortgages. So who does this measure apply to? For example, this measure applies against a child who wants to collect alimony but does not apply against the Zagreb Bank. Well done. It's against the opportune. I believe that colleagues and colleagues who are not lawyers have not often in their lives come across the notion of counterwork, but those who have known that it is an instrument that protects the perpetrators that already in the executive procedure without having to conduct additional expensive procedures can return what he was charged with. One of the most common cases is when an executive doubles in charge of the same demand. The first time you went to the bank, you paid for it, and after that someone because they probably didn't register, I hope because they didn't sign up because they didn't want to cheat you and rob you again for the same request, they're running an executive procedure. Now I'm asking you, when do you go to the bank and pay some kind of debt you get? You get a receipt from the bank. However, in this bill, you colleagues from MOST have stated that the one from whom the search has been charged twice will be able to prove this only to a public or publicly certified correctness. I know there's an affinity with you to go to the public notebook and verify your signatures. However, I ask you, do you know what a public document is? You obviously don't know. The public document is an instrument issued by a public legal authority in its action. The banks are not a public body. And you won't be able to run the countertop when you get confirmation from the bank that you paid the debt, no, you'll have to go to trial. However, in order not to be so black, this law is likely to undermine but the truth exists, and a measure that is good and that needs to be welcomed, which is a measure that you redefine Article 39 of the Law and to some extent simplify the content of the proposal for a performance. And that would mostly be about this law, in short. There are reasons why the chief legislator of the law is in the parliamentary democracies of the government. There are. Because the government has certain instruments at its disposal. He's got professional services, he's got working groups. The draft law also includes experts who are not necessarily members of that Government. However, there has been an obligation to consult the public concerned recently. In this way we ensure that all these remarks that we make to you yesterday and today in a sometimes bile debate are made in a calm tone, past the public. Why not the public? Why not the public? So that such semi-products would not come before the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and disturb them at all. There is therefore a consultation with the interested public, and therefore there are working groups. In view of all of the above, the SDP Representatives Club has one concrete proposal. Let's try to fix this, let's apply the provisions that the Rules of Procedure made available to us. And in accordance with Article 188 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament so that we no longer have to come to these semi-products, let's make a decision that the final text of the bill is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I hope you trust the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at least we should, given that it is a resolution minister who should lead the preparation of this law from your political option. Let's hand over the government bat, and let's make a bill of law that will be good, which will put that intensities that are good and correct into text that can be implemented. Let's leave the bat to the government and go do the job right.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2222	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grbin, I must say that I am not sure that your claim is that in all parliaments as you said in Europe the Government is a legislator, however, I think that in many parliaments it is either individual representatives or a group of representatives or parties etc.. In some parliaments in the world of government, they are almost never legislators of the law but are almost exclusively members of parliaments. But well, of course it is, of course it's possible to interpret it that way. Let's go to the replicas. You've got a few, and here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms. What did I hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2223	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you have violated Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because you gave a replica to my speech without having asked the President to give you a word for the presentation of the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2224	Comrade Grbin, you may be an excellent lawyer, but now you know you're completely misreading the Rules of Procedure. But let's go to the replicas. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Grbin, I really appreciate your legal expertise. However, I call on you, instead of giving us a statement here, to advance this bill with your constructive proposals to make it fully effective at the end when it is adopted. I will remind you that in the four years of your term of office when you were under control and the DOJ changed the Implementing Law three times and failed to find a way to help people. Even certain provisions of this law and decisions of the Constitutional Court have been put out of your hands. It's also not just one law or part of the law that was put out of your hands during your term of office. You have been put out of your hands and a fat-paid Family Law, also part of the Law on Scientific Activity, Higher Education, Curiculum of Health Education, and part of the Law on Administrative Disputes. Well, I can't believe you're interpreting these laws like this. I also noticed through the debate yesterday that Mr. Maras asked that such a law should be passed in an emergency procedure, you are now calling for consultation with the interested public, so I ask you how many SDPs have at the moment? Given the high degree of democracy in your site, it seems to me that you have inherited this example of inflation of the establishment of new parties in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2226	The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2227	Dear colleague, if you had conducted a consultation with the interested public, and not then would I and many other teachers from my university, for example, have been able to make their remarks and suggestions to change this law. However, during the debate yesterday, some of my colleagues presented you with ways to amend this bill, and we brought them to the board and if you listened more carefully, you would understand that I strongly suggest that you extend the measure you have installed in order to collect the cash demand and to the Head of the Executive Act relating to the implementation of non-money claims. To translate into a language that you may understand, I have suggested that you include what you have put into question the sale of real estate in the executive procedure and into the head of the Executive Law relating to eviction from the dwellings of those who were not the owners of the property from which they moved. And as for the legislative procedure, I live in the belief that every MP has the right to his own opinion even when he's wrong in my court. In a specific case, the Executive Act is also too important to be adopted in an emergency procedure. That's what I told you at the very least before the law was sent to the procedure several times. You have partially respected the proposal, you have embarked on a regular procedure which should certainly be welcomed, but now give this legislative procedure to the end, leave it to the Government, which in most parliamentary democracies has a legislative initiative and we will complete this procedure properly because I hope that during this debate with the interested public, we will get concrete proposals that will improve this. I will be happy to participate in it and give you comments, suggestions and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2228	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2229	Dear Vice President, I would have suggested one thing, perhaps if you were filmed in the SDP and released in all of our bill proposals because you're repeating the same thing over and over again that the intensity is good but that this is not rightly done, that the profession did not participate in it. So this bill was prepared during the time we were part of the ruling majority, prepared at the Ministry of Justice and prepared with experts. But of course you don't want to admit that the intensity is good, that performance is more or less good, I agree maybe some things should change. There's only one thing I'd ask you to ask you, except for this video of yours, to forbid your colleagues from speaking to Maras because he always advocates something contrary to what you're saying. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2230	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2231	Dear comrade Grmoya, you're new to the Parliament, and you can see that in every step of yours. Because if you weren't new to the Parliament, you certainly wouldn't have allowed yourself to say something that is illegal in every parliamentary democracy, which is to think that any citizen, let alone a parliamentary representative, should be banned from speaking. This is Parliament, look for the root of that word, and it will understand what it refers to, about speech, about conversation, about different attitudes. That as far as I'm concerned, when we talk about your bill proposals, they repeat themselves. But they don't repeat themselves because that's how I don't have as smart as I can say, they only repeat themselves, and because you keep making the mistakes of your colleagues. I am sure that for once in your life you have heard the saying "That the road to hell is paved by good intentions." That is what you have afforded the citizens of the Republic of Croatia hell that came from your good intentions. You're telling me that this bill of law has been prepared by a task force in the ministry, or experts headed by your minister, I'm now concerned. I was hoping that in the government of the Republic of Croatia there were people who would write a document better than this, obviously I was wrong because this is a semi-product. Read a few months ago about this bill you mention, Michaelo Dick, I don't know if you've heard of the gentleman concerned that you'd probably know who he is in the legal profession, wrote a serious text on more than 40 pages, which cuts the bill that was going on from the ministries and lists all the remarks that make him dangerous in the Croatian legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2232	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepana Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2233	Thank you, Vice President. I volunteered for the replica because I was encouraged by this debate of a distinguished colleague of the Grbin, I must say that I fully agree with him as Mayor of the town of Čakovec I can say that the town of Čakovec has 104 apartments that we give to the socialists of that we currently have 20 more people on the list to wait for. Because all the apartments are filled. The town of Čakovec has a coefficient of development of 104. I wonder what will happen to those cities that aren't so developed and that don't have apartments? I have an example of where one person from the municipality transferred residence to the town of Čakovec because I believe they will get there before the accommodation. So what's gonna happen to these people? For example, I also warned yesterday that at 2432 public auctions are held annually. Where will these people end up? How will the state provide them with apartments? Will that transfer as a commitment to local self-government units? Well, we don't have anything. I'd like to know, so if the person who owns it is the first real estate after this waiting list I have in the town of Čakovec, then it's a clear example that you can see where the state in Čakovec will provide him with an apartment. He's gonna rent? He's gonna buy? Are we going to build POS apartments? These are things we should, things we don't know how they're gonna get rid of, and nobody's talking about them. And there will be a problem in all cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2234	Thank you. They will respond to the replica of the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2235	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, we heard during a debate yesterday from a representative from the MOST club that we're going to have 18 months to solve this problem. 18 months for improvisation. But what you said is the core of the problem and the way it should be solved. It should be dealt with not through the executive law, because the executive law is something else entirely. The law of law is procedural law. We should deal with it through those laws that regulate the issue of RS relations to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are in a difficult social situation. And then it should come up with a solution that will not last 18 months but will be more long-term and a solution that will not only apply to those citizens of the Republic of Croatia to whom their only real estate is sold will also apply to those of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are moving out of a property that has never been owned. And to all those other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, according to your words in Čakovec, belong to more developed parts of the Republic of Croatia, there are many. And in Pula I come from, which also belongs to more developed parts of the Republic of Croatia today I saw the risk of poverty behind the city of Zagreb. The Istrian County is second in terms of how low the risk of poverty is in it. But there are people in Istria who need to be taken care of and cared about by local self-government. This way we won't achieve anything at all. I'll repeat what I said. This is about a big fire that someone's trying to put out with a bucket of water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2236	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2237	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Grbin, I'm sure you've said very well that it's a good intensity and that you welcome the intensity. I also welcome the intensities, but through a replica of you because you spoke about the obligations of local administration and the situation in local administration regarding the adoption, or the rental of social housing needed from the local administrations to contribute to this, and not as you critically address yourself in a way that, unfortunately, I will tell you both your and my and all local administrations from Croatia are still working under the law of '96. the year on the award of apartments socially endangered in the local community. This is unfortunately, and the law also needs to be changed and complemented urgently. I must also say, you said in your statement that much of the local communities can't meet that obligation. I don't think so, because I know that a good part of the local community has truly fulfilled that obligation. Unfortunately, that's just one thing in all that I'm building on that '96 law. a series of local communities have not adopted the rules on which they will do so at all, nor have they opened competitions in which they will receive social threats from the areas of those local communities of their apartments. That's the problem, and that's why we need to change that '96 law urgently. the years where the obligations to the local community with criteria would also be incorporated, not to be left to the local community to establish a criterion by the basis of the rules and to question competitions by the basis of the regulations, and many of them do not adopt those regulations. So please excuse the little education in that area, from that segment of local administration. But I'm really only gonna say for the end of this. With this intensities, let us all contribute to this and to the accompanying laws, regulations and in some way cooperation with the local community that these other laws change urgently and that in some way the obligations of local communities are in some way uniformed for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2238	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2239	Dear colleague, I thank you for your replica. It shows that you spent many years in local self-government. And any such contribution to the debate is good. However, I must supplement you. I've been talking to my colleagues and colleagues for the past few days who come from those units of local self-government that don't even own a housing unit that they would assign to the social needs. So that's another problem. We will repeat some things here for 18 months, and after 18 months if you are not lucky to live in the city of Zagreb, Pula or Čakovec who, although having problems in the realisation of this document, have been talking about it as much as they realize it. If you're not lucky to live in such units of local self-government, but in some small town or small town that doesn't have any apartments in its possession at all, what then? You end up on the street. Once again, it is indeed a good intensity, it is indeed an intensities to be welcomed. But it is an intensities that are not in the Executive Law but in other regulations and it is an intrinsic which is incomplete, incomplete and does not offer a half solution to the serious problem that the Republic of Croatia has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2240	Thank you very much. We will now move to the National Minority Representatives' Club and time will be shared by the distinguished representative Lekaj Prlaskaj and fellow Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2241	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to look back at the amendment proposal and the addition of the executive law and I'd like to highlight a few points. The problem facing the perpetrators and the public notebooks, including the courts, is the problem of delivery. Delivery is done via Croatian Post Office, and additional complications occur as a result of the company's own rules but unfortunately we also have to say the lack of education of postmen. For example, the shipment is often delivered in the morning hours when part of the contractors are working and are not at home and the consequent shipment is returned, and the recipient cannot know or know what kind of submission was sent to him. In the meantime, the solution will become a powerful one, and the perpetrator is not even aware of it at all. The second problem and the ambiguity that arises is to create additional costs for the performer by sending the notice. I'd just say what it would look like in practice. For example, we have an executive utility company that ends up with a notebook of 50 clauses on its solutions, which, without delay, even delivers the same day in FINA. The notary shall send a notice to the performer which the informer may receive in a few days or if he does not receive for the first time then only for 30 days, and if not then by a notice board. There is, therefore, a high probability that this notice will be received after its final and final solution has already been implemented. I would especially point out the illogicality by which the craftsman corresponds to all of his assets for his obligations. And from the assumption that a craftsman as a natural person acquires all the rights created by such a business. And as we know, the case-law of so far has attached itself to the full responsibility of craftsmen. In addition to these difficulties, it is also necessary to mention the problem facing courts in carrying out the executive procedure as the ultimate form of realization of the responsibility of craftsmen. In view of the existing regulations of the Law on Trade, it would be necessary to establish which assets of the craftsman constitute the property of which the craftsman is responsible for his obligations. And I believe that the legislator should correct that illogicalness in the Law of Trade and predict that the craftsman is responsible for the obligations only by means of the property he has entered into the crafts. As regards the resolution of public notebooks on the subject of highlighted objections to a decision on enforcement on the basis of a credible document, it is possible that abuse of the work of public notaries and doubts about their impartiality. And it's all true that the courts in their work are impartial, and this is how the authority of the public notebooks that should be in the jurisdiction of the courts is derivated. The same cannot be decided on the subject of outstanding objections. Nowhere in the world is there that someone in the first degree, such as the public notary here, makes a solution for the payer of a particular demand to decide at the same time on the objection of the perpetrators, means the opposite party. Such a legal provision leads to the possibility of abuse of rights and creates legal uncertainty. I believe that public notebooks should not decide on the complaints of the perpetrators in the first degree precisely because this seriously disrupts the independence and impartiality of public notebooks in the process. In fact, since it is not possible in litigation in the case of authorised courts to choose voluntarily where a particular procedure is to be conducted, I believe it should also be the choice of public notebooks carrying out the tasks. The suspicion of impartiality and independence leads precisely to the fact that executives choose for themselves where the public notary will initiate the executive procedure. And it should also be done in the manner in which the executions should be assigned to the public notaries. So if the public notary is also authorised to decide on complaints to the performer in the first degree, I believe that in that case the method of distribution of the performance should be applied in the same way as the items of the leave. In this case, public notebooks could, impartially and independently, decide on the basis of the complaint of the perpetrators. This would improve the position of the perpetrators, as notaries would not protect their executives but some solutions would be rejected. No one argues that the executive procedure itself is necessary because of the interest of the credentials and the legal order itself but legislative solutions must meet the interests and needs of the citizens. Also, I'd especially like to point out the illogicalness, I'm giving the word to my colleague now, have I passed nine minutes? I did. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2242	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will support the proposal for this law because I think it is a small step when we talk about the area of housing and social security of citizens, even though it is not about solving the whole problem. The executive law is only one of the problems that currently threatens our citizens, and the problem is unfortunately much wider. It is also very current in view of the coming winter and the problems we have with living care. There are dozens of families who report to my office every day. The situation is particularly sad because it is clear that there are properties owned by the Republic of Croatia that stare empty and eventually fail. On the other hand, families end up on the street or live in constant fear of happening to them. I have witnessed the forced emigration of many families with children, and even worse are the problems of those citizens who have been living in houses and apartments for decades for which neither banks are interested. I want to say something about their position this time. The problem of Roma living in these inhumane conditions is chronic, and the general public is not interesting nor was it ever, that it would not have been long ago. There was a habit and acceptable for the Roma to live in unacceptable conditions until the state offices that manage state property do not know for themselves what is at their disposal. That's usually the information I got at a meeting from a high-ranking DUUDI employee. I have to say, for more than a year now, I've been trying to set up a meeting with the head of the office, but he's always too busy, unavailable or delayed. I hope that the new government will change the way one of the most important state offices works. It is very difficult to find solutions for people who will welcome winters in huts and forests, especially when I, as a parliamentary representative of the state office, are inaccessible, and local authorities and welfare centres are powerless or uninterested, depending on the case to the case. Those offices that are willing to do something like the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing do not have shelters for this in laws or means available to operate in that direction. There are professional, experienced people in these offices who understand the problem, who are willing to do something, but they can't do anything without a positive wind in the back in the form of political support of the new parliamentary majority, or 14. Government of the That's exactly what I want to put an accent on. In the negotiations I have conducted, I have stated that I want the housing issues of members of the Roma National Minority to be resolved in accordance with the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion, which we need to amend further, in a way that provides for more clear deadlines for the relevant ministries. The mechanism and the means to address the issue of people who have nothing to be executive to them must be found as soon as possible, and this must be one of the priorities in the coming period. The goal is clear and I am ready to support any solution that leads to its realization. It is not acceptable for the Constitution to say that we live in a social state, that children live in forests, that they are born in huts, that they live without electricity and water, without talking about the Internet and the rest of what is standard in the developed world. I expect from you colleagues, as well as the new prime minister, that as soon as possible we find a good model of solving the problems that nothing can be done because they have nothing. Most of the problems related to the legalisation of Roma settlements were solved in the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and in this 9th I expect to take a step towards improving the editing of these settlements. It's the interest of both the majority and the minority. No one is interested in having families living in Međimurje, Osijek-Baranja, Primorje-Gorski and other counties living as in the 18th century and not just there. There are cases like this in the city of Zagreb. Two days ago, for who knows which time I received a warning from a Roma representative about the situation of Roma in Delnica, who will meet with families another winter in the forest with no roof over his head. The problem is partially solved by delivering old police containers. But I wonder if the housing problems of minorities are solved by putting them in tin containers. A well-known example of Roma from Koprivnica and Križevci County is the village of Drnja, which looks more like the 16th century than the 18th century. This bill clearly states that it is necessary to provide between three and five million kunas for its implementation and I support it. I don't think any of our citizens, especially those with families, should end up on the road. But what about those who already have nothing. I have repeatedly repeated that the problem is cheaper to solve systematically from the position of burden on the social system, especially when we are talking about education that is directly related to the possibility of employment. Until Roma and other minorities from undeveloped areas are included in the system of work and education and until we provide them with minimum conditions for a decent life, we cannot talk at all about the country's comprehensive recovery and Roma settlements are part of Croatia and these are 700 years already. The question is whether or not we know that my compatriots in Primorje-goranska or Koprivnica-križevci County will not solve their problems on their own. The question is whether we're going to keep them on our own and social care centers. As I have already said, this is not a situation which is a new phenomenon, as is the case with performances and loans, but is a problem that has been present for 700 years in the territory of Croatia. It's a problem for people who never had a chance to work and take credit, it's a problem for people who live in real estate in such a bad state that neither banks would want to take them. It's our common shame. This way, I appeal to the state budget on which we will vote very quickly to find the funds that we will channel through the competent ministries towards solving the problems I have raised. These are the problems that we urgently need to solve, these are the problems that we need to start operationally working out before the coming winter begins, these are the problems that require a positive government regulation and amendments to the law, these are the problems that we can and must address with the experience of our people in institutions that are waiting for funds and normative frameworks to do something. This way, I ask all my fellow MPs to support me in this. I repeat, once again, that this bill that we are discussing is good, it is good to provide concrete resources and I will therefore support it but also warn that it is already visible that it solves nothing in the long term but the problems of those currently affected by a social disaster such as being thrown into the street from one real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2243	Thank you very much. At the presentation of my colleague, Lekaj Prlaskaj, we have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2244	Dear colleagues, Lecai, I welcome your debate, and I invite you also to present your proposals in this period of debate which will follow up on the second reading and adoption of the final draft of the law to advance it. You had two comments, one concerning the delivery of a solution, or the introduction of a special notification, it was introduced precisely for the reason that many perpetrators complained that they had not been informed that the decision to execute had become final and that they would, in the meantime, have found some way to prevent the execution or to at least suspend it temporarily. Or that they had some capacity not to delay that execution. And the second question is that you have found that this bill does not adequately regulate the question of responsibility when we talk about the performances of companies and crafts. Unfortunately, this is the subject of another regulation of the Law of Turning, since the Law of Turning is prescribed that craftsmen are responsible for the damage caused by all their property. As we have already spoken during the debate, this law touches a number of other laws and the final bill proposal and the final intensities of this law so that it will be applied in the best possible sense will be possible only when we change some other relevant laws. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2245	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Lekaj-Prlaskaj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2246	Dear colleague, I was trying to point out problems because before I became a parliamentary representative, I was running errands and I am familiar with the whole procedure and I hope that these remarks will be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2247	Thank you. We have a few replicas of the same at the presentation of our colleagues, Keatazi. She is the first to be the respected representative of Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2248	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague of Keatazi you mentioned the bad relationship of DUDI when it comes to managing real estate towards clients, towards citizens. I would also like to share one of my experiences. When I was investigating a case of enforcement then it wasn't DUDI, it was AUDI, the State Property Management Agency. I have to say, I was very unkindly admitted to the very building on the port, and of some, one of the officials wouldn't take me in at all. But whatever you're doing, there's your phone, call there's someone three feet away in the room, somebody's gonna call you there, or call you upstairs on the 3rd, 4th floor, but you don't get in, we can't take you in. As the property is managed in the cities of the municipalities, the county, here I will mention the case of the city of Zagreb. I know because I've often been to the City Hall in Stjepan Radić Square, I know because people are telling me who are asking to be placed somewhere, they are known to be long waiting lists. They're simply said there, look, find a city apartment, break in, be there for a while, maybe after we legalize it, maybe we'll defuse you, but you'll be a few months, a few years. That's what you do. It can't be done like that, but it's done. Why? Because the system doesn't function, because the system is extremely slow. And if the system were to wonder people would have died 100 times already, they'd have died on the road. And as far as this bill is concerned, it is mentioned here, so it is given to the use of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is not explicitly stated, whether it is thought of the central state, so what is owned by DUDI, the ministries, the Ministry of Defence, etc. Or that's what you think of the local state. It is not explicitly stated, but I assume from the debate that it applies to both the central state and the local self-government units. Well, here's what I'm asking the promoters to say when someone will be theirs, when they'll have a word to explain that problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2249	Thank you. Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2250	My dear colleague, you've just encouraged me to do something I'm not in the discussion, and I thank you for that. Among other things, I am taking the opportunity to thank you for those actions that are with the members of the Roma community and you are sometimes there. I mean, it's sad because it's all about the devotions in which, as I mentioned earlier to objects that may not have any living conditions, but still the members, and even the decline, and the members of the Roma community are in those facilities and ultimately without a solution they enter these facilities and afterwards are asked to charge for being inside. And I think we need to stop at that and we need to find a solution for sure and there is a solution, but we should also social care centres, and we should also take some of our responsibilities in solving it and not in any way be weak or in no way concerned about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2251	Thank you. The next replica is the same on counterpart Kajtazizija, a respected representative of the Domovary Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2252	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Kajtazi, that you have touched actually one very important topic, which is the availability of state property that you yourself have said was not the most effective one. If it's true and we have no reason to doubt that this isn't what my colleague Sincic was saying to people in the City Office, it's really sad. Property management is a problem, we have also heard that in the units of local self-government here and the ones from which I come there are waiting lists, so the units of local self-government do not have the capacity this problem is proposed by this law itself. The state may have but whether or not the state knows everything in its possession. But what might be a bright point in all of this so far we have had the State Office for State Property Management so-called. DUUDI, and now we'll have MUDI, Ministry of State Property Management, so I guess that'll improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2253	Thank you. The honourable representative Veljko Kajtazi will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2254	An esteemed colleague right in your county from which you come there are so many properties where DUUDI himself doesn't know that there are certain properties. That's exactly what I mean about the rooms... which I was, I had the opportunity to visit on the ground and see and are members of the Roma community despite such a bad object as I mentioned earlier, they are willing to enter and invest certain funds just to have some particular roof over their heads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although I note that neither are the objects that are found to be not. That's why in the debate, I mentioned that I had been trying to get to him for a year with the head of the office and we tried until last year, I sent e-mails, and then I stopped after that, and almost twice a month I sent letters to him that none of them answered me. At five months and six, I stopped sending him more because I saw that it made no sense. Just to point out the shortcomings and opportunities that can be solved or in your county there are a lot of such properties that are under DUDI, the State Office of State Property Management, and what I think in this particular case could be dealt with by a lot of members of the Roma community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2255	Thank you. The Republic also has a distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2256	Dear colleague Kajtazi, you have extended your debate a little bit, and I welcome that because you are a worthy representative of your national minority. And in any case one problem, and we talked about it more about us who were in the positions of unit leaders of local self-government is this state property. And the fact is that the state itself, or DUUDI, or the former AUDI don't know what they have on the ground, and these facilities are mostly in a catastrophic state. And when there's a need or demand, then procedures are terrible not only for individuals you've talked about but even for cities and municipalities. And the fact is that what's owned by the local self-government units is that they're very concerned about it and what AUDI or DUDI manages is in such a state that it just falls apart and local self-government units don't have the legal opportunities to train it. I hope that this new ministry will very much apply, and I don't see why units of local self-government, cities and municipalities couldn't manage this property when they've already proven that everything we've been given that we've turned practically into gold. And as for the Roma minority in our area, it occurred to me when you were saying that I have experience in contact with the Roma in my area, although there are very few only a few families, however much we help them and in that part of the accommodation of children in kindergarten, in financial and 18 months there is nothing at all. I think in that part, we should all think about it that way, don't give a man a fish to help him, but teach him how to hunt that fish. But from my experience, I can tell you as much as we've asked them for a job, we've made it difficult for them to accept it. And I think that's the role of all of us to gradually assimilate these people into our society to change their mentality, that they have to realize for themselves that they have to hunt that fish because of that fish that someone gives him won't benefit much, and in fact they're going to keep repeating the same problems. And I think that here as a society, as a community, as units of local self-government, we all need to agree together to help these people fit into the life of the environment in which they live. Because there'll always be problems like that. I know very well the problem in the stocks that appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2257	Thank you. The honourable representative, Veljko Kajtazi, will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2258	My dear colleague, I fully agree with you. But before that, I just wanted to turn to you that it also takes a certain set of gear to catch it. I think that members of the Roma community, there is a National Strategy for Roma that now includes housing, education, health and employment. If you could at least start to do something, I think the Roma community would feel it because that's exactly what I used to say on many occasions that in the seventh day, a little step was made. And that's why I expect the 9th calls out that we're going to take a bigger step in all of this. And I have to tell you something else, and that's that I'm personally very happy if I am, and I hope it's a special ministry that I expect it to be, too, so that it will do and do all these DUDI deficiencies that are not, and that it will be, in some way, accessible to us and that we won't have to wait a year for someone to respond to our memos than that we're sure to get the memos much faster and it'll work much more efficiently. I'm the only one who expects and invites all of you to do something together so far. And I think we can do a lot, one can't, but all together we can do and improve the Roma community that has been on our premises for over 700 years. And I agree completely with you when you say you shouldn't give them fish, but you should teach them how to fish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2259	Thank you. And the last replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2260	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Kajtazi, I'm glad you've expanded this subject. However, I would like to stress that it is not only a minority but in this case, which I will name a majority people. So, before that, let me just say here's the community of Mikleush that was in my county she had up to somewhere before 150 students now had 90. Why am I saying that? The Voćin municipality, which is unfortunately one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, was there in 1992, about 300 families from the area of the Year, about 1,300 people. Since 2001, they have been given consent to their housing, and somewhere in 2004, the rebuilding of houses where the state has given material and helped these people to gather inhabitably. However, today for the vast majority of them are not resolved, property legal relations have not been resolved, as even the Realty Agency has turned out to be not the owner of these properties. We have and here we have received and the Ministry of Demography we have and soon the Ministry of State Property will be formed, and these issues simply require cooperation from all competent authorities, all ministries, to address such issues as quickly as possible. Because without solving these issues, especially when we talk about the housing issue, it's hard for the Ministry of Demography to do something about it. Because the question of those families is how much more patience they'll have and when they'll come to the moment when they just say if we can't live in our own, then we'll move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2261	Thank you. The honourable representative of Kajtazi will answer. Here you go. Oh, no? Thank you. Then we move on to the next club of representatives, which is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives, on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Željko Lackovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2262	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like first to point out one circumstance that falls into my eyes, which is that the promoter of MOST independent lists as representatives who will participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies has appointed his representatives Hrvoje Runtic, Mira Bulj, Nikola Grumoj and Robert Podolnjak. Where are they? Is this the same MOST of independent lists that wants to punish parliamentary MPs if they do not come to the vote on Friday, and when they make such proposals that I will not say have no connection to the link, but show the indifference of the work of the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body at all, then at least they should be here to hear what their colleague Grbin told them correctly, exactly what they are now doing with this legislative proposal, or amendments to the law, the Executive Law, and what they will do. Because in this explanation you have two numbers. About how many squares the apartment is and what the average price of that apartment is, how much this is going to be a burden in those 18 months and no other figure. You don't have a view of this bill, but just outside of another context except how to help those who do the errand end up on the road, for monetary debt. So, are we aware of this legislative body that by reducing the share of wages that can be exposed, we will reduce by no less than 25% the credit capacity of all those employees of our citizens who receive less than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. And what number of employees is that? So it's over 60% of all employees. After the adoption of this law when they go to the bank and raise credit, they are simply 25% less creditworthy. I calculated, so the average salary is 5686 kuna. At one thousand kuna, the average salary of teachers, so people who are fortunate to work in the country today, will now be a free share, so that they will not be able to carry out 3750 kuna, or 417 kuna less at the monthly level. At the annual level, that's 5,000 kuna, on a 30-year loan, that's 150000 kuna. You must have two guarantees, 450,000 kuna if these are your colleagues. According to this legal solution, I would never buy an apartment. I've been a tenant since '85. until 2005. When I was buying an apartment, I had to take it for 30 years because the war was, for which I had two guarantees, a wife who worked at school, so also her colleague, and I was to be a war of 3,000 kuna, in Swiss for 30 years. Now I'm asking what are we doing with this bill? We're making it impossible for young families to go into business so they can borrow at all, so they can buy an apartment. And if I can't buy an apartment normally, he'll go out and live somewhere. Here goes one great delusion, leaving Croatia those who have been executed. On the contrary! Those who were unable to collect their claims in the procedure were later exposed to the massacre that takes place in the executive procedure of those others because those who did something had their property were disappointed to leave the Republic of Croatia. Then it's mentioned that I don't know a hundred cases, and it's not going from the assumption that the executive law, a law like a fellow coat of arms, which must be so harsh that the execution is effective. Because only an effective performance can protect the believers, and don't forget that a large number of the perpetrators have failed, failed to charge themselves in the executive procedure. It's like beating a knife with which you have to cut it because it's the executive law, that's the meaning of the executive law. The human side that must be satisfied is the subject of another legal solution, and that's exactly what's said. This must be the Social Act which will provide that those persons who remain without their last property have room and not stay on the road. I see a fellow Bull is here. I told one and my case about how I've been on credit for 30 years. I didn't say one more thing, and that's that my parents retired so they had together 2,000 kuna pensions, I was a young minister, but I didn't have anyone to lend me money. And I was at war, but I didn't get any apartment that I could sell later. So this is a direct blow to the ability of young people to be in charge. Now, if we as the Croatian Parliament have to pass laws before which we will all be equal, then what we are discussing now is a colleague of Kajtazi about the problem of Roma. Well, it's very simple! Don't pay your debts, drink, gamble your assets, don't move you out. So what's the difference, the state will provide you with 120 square feet of apartment. A lot of people don't even get close to that. After that, after 18 months, they'll ask you to step out of that apartment. Well, of course you're not stupid to get out of that apartment, because they don't have any mechanism to drive you out of that apartment. Among other things, the obligations of local self-government relating to social care and which should be taken over by such cases should also have a secure source of funding, which is therefore by balancing from the state budget. What is even more tragic in this whole situation is that this bill is proposed in the transitional and final provisions of Article 41 that this inexhaustible part of the salary will immediately take effect which will cause further repercusion. Well, that's it. Looking earlier, I wondered why and who was imposing certain topics, and now I just can't believe that we're discussing in a completely wrong context, that we have an elephant in glass that came to impress specifically in this case MOST by gift to the electorate body of the Living Wall and then doing so much damage to everyone else that he's not aware of it at all. But it won't get the effects either, I believe, nor do I trust the voters of the Living Wall because this is not a measure or a law to deal with. This law has to be effective, we have to be all equal in front of it, our judiciary has to work and then you won't even have an RBA side of the savings bank, you won't have a problem proving whether any of the contracts are interest-bearing or not. So aside from the intensities, this is a bill that's been imposed, which is not absolutely done in that minimum standard, and now we can do brainstorming here and we haven't asked the profession, but we said this would come into effect immediately. In the article there 300 and I don't know which one he says this won't apply to the proceedings before 2006. Imagine! We still have cases since 2006. So give solutions to ban on municipal debts, for the periodic achievement of claims even access to court. Tell me you can't handle this in court, and it'll be easier to get rid of it. In what way? So let the banks give or anyone else's third insurance for certain phones that they take on other people's cards, ID cards, and then later when these people move out, then the state will give them an apartment. Every democratic society, among other things, lies on equality before the law and stands on responsibility and we must distinguish those who are responsible, unlike those who will make use of this bill very easily. So, I think this is one of the worst legal proposals I could expect in the Croatian Parliament, and I will be very happy to respond to all the replicas I will get today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2263	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused quite a lot of replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2264	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Honored counterpart Lackovic remains one question. To whom is this law now proposed and what will the citizens have from it? We say when the perpetrator gets kicked out of the state's apartment he'll take care of him and give him an apartment for 18 months. So who's on the arm? Well, I guess it goes to the banks. That's what the citizens ask me yesterday, so they tell me who you're going after? So you go to the banks, they have comfort now. It will no longer be necessary for Sincic and anyone else to be seen in the media but will know the man is finished, the state stands behind him and solves the problem. And we see and we listen to these lawyers here, and I'm not a lawyer, so I can't talk about it enough, but I notice. We'll take over all these problems, the banks get comfort, the citizens will certainly be expelled, they've got nothing, they'll come out of their real estate. Well, 15 years ago, people took care of people who were done, so they tried to find them an apartment. We don't have enough of that in local self-government. The problems continue, we don't really solve anything. As a businessman, I see the only solution is to reduce the parafiscal burdens of companies, to watch how to raise wages to citizens that the poor in that part can thus pay their dues and certainly what happened in francs should somehow be sanctioned. But something's already been done. And as far as this law is concerned, I personally see it as pure populism, let something be done. What were we doing? Nothing. I'd say about that. Here's the lawyer when I listen, people who understand the law a little bit more, and they're themselves saying that we're not going to get anything special with this law, especially citizens who are done with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2265	Thank you. The honourable representative Željko Lackovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2266	So we can't know what we're going to get because we can't even get a line from the proposings who have committed to taking part in the debate. Well, here's a good opportunity, maybe in this code that we'll have on the conduct of parliamentary representatives those who are legislators will also be punished if they don't attend such discussions. So, except you're going to neutralize so Live Wall and help some banks but what's worst is you're going to create new models to get rid of the sociale. So that's how Marco's gonna raise his loan to Đura, it's gonna be a cash demand. They're two good friends, and together they're gonna spend that money, or they're gonna even put him down, or they're gonna go into business. Djuro's going to do a run on Mark's house, and Marco's going to get a 120-square apartment, and he's going to live there together. And so each other. And they'll charge the courts, they'll charge the welfare centers. And these legal solutions, the average salary, less than the average salary, it's in the executive procedure as if they were to delay each calculation for, say, a year. He collects, stalls, puts himself in a difficult position. So, the real intensity of this law aside from getting into the electoral body that is in a difficult situation and that covers the Living Wall I don't see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2267	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2268	I will really agree with you in the part where you said it, and we have witnessed it because this whole debate that is being held today and these days is essentially about the question of some other law, not this law. So here we're talking about someone who's come into such a situation that they have to think socially about him. That's one thing. And secondly, we need to honestly tell you in these two weeks how long this assembly's been going on, I've heard so much from both sides and on the other hand I don't know from NATO, America, Israel, the Palestinians, I don't know what not, that this cheap pulsism that spills more hats here and leads only once, to the stupidity of the people. Because thinking about how someone made a commitment as you did when you were buying your apartment that you'd get money to buy an apartment with, and that money you'd been paying back for 30 years, you came in consciously. I can understand that you found yourself in trouble so you couldn't and then you need to find a mechanism to help you, but not that whoever gave you money doesn't charge your money, but to help you a certain period of time to get through this crisis as much as you can, but you have to fulfill your obligation, you have to do it. All this other stuff that's been under discussion here all the time, it only goes once, a law on some kind of social care, the way the state helps that endangered part of our population. And not to mention that the local self-government unit can say this responsibly because I have been leading for 12 years far, far more care than the state has about these most vulnerable residents in its area. From food stamps, from heat money, from housing expenses, I don't know what not everything we already have in the field worked out, and that's what's done. So what we're talking about today is not the subject of this law because the whole debate comes down to what happens after those 18 months of giving someone an apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2269	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative He can't answer, let's learn. [[Intruder: Could answer.]] If we want a reply to the replica, then we have to indicate it. ... No, I was just looking at you the whole time, but okay. Answer me, but please, all colleagues, there are rules that we all have to follow. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We need to report for a reply to the replica if we want to. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2270	Well, you can see that we can make a deal. Thank you, Vice President. So you said exactly it was a social issue, but now you have two kinds of socialities. So that's what we here who raise our hands should be aware of. One society refers to the one where people in a difficult situation have a lot of children, can't cover themselves, occasionally stay out of work, and they can't come up in line to get through local self-government a social apartment or to provide them with other accommodation, but it will be enough to prescribe everything and then certainly get an apartment because it will allow them to imagine, Executive Law. So since we stopped cheating on the laws they sent us from the EU, we haven't passed a meaningful law that might reflect the consequences. So then we said there's going to pay the contractor rent and now we're putting it out because we see that it's not going to just not work. And now we're going to do a little experiment with this other side. So, among other things, all those who take responsibility, who have fallen into trouble, have just come for inefficient executive law and inefficient justice. And the judiciary ultimately doesn't have to be effective if they're going to deal annually with 100 thousand HRT fees that we put back here in a legal solution, instead of those who rule the state or have a majority and the government, there say the CEO stop using lawyers to do it the other way, organize, we don't do a legal solution. And it's populism and this is populism. Yesterday, Prime Minister Plenkovic said, I think he was apostrophe on a colleague of Pernar that it was a trend in Europe and that it would not be allowed here. I agree that this House does not allow it, but what we are doing right now is populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2271	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2272	Here's my esteemed colleague Lackovic, I fully support your debate, but what's most important is that I support your position. First, for the reasons that our youngsters today have two basic life problems. The first is business, and the second is solving the housing issue. So, as you yourself pointed out by this bill we penalize, we make it impossible for young people to solve one or one of the basic problems of their lives. And secondly, what you have specifically articulated is that politics and populism that has been present for many years, especially in this assembly, has generated that Croatian society in general today is also in a difficult economic, economic and social crisis. If we want a responsible policy, then we need to stop populism and politics, look for responsible, comprehensive and sustainable solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2273	Thank you. You will respond to the honourable representative Željko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2274	Thank you. So, fellow Sponza, another little detail of what you've replicated to me. So, earlier amendments to the Executive Act, we banned another institute, and that institute provided for the possibility that you, as a debtor, would agree to confiscate most of your salary than is allowed or prescribed by law. So you could say I don't know yet at home, I have incomes that don't register, I make my own food, I have a garden, I can save most of my salary, and I'm willing to and over two-thirds so over one-third, and now it's going to be one-quarter of my salary to be paid in the credit assessment, later on and on. Now we've banned it and prescribed that three-quarters of it is protected, so now I'm asking them, it's not worth it to us young assembly representatives who have an apartment or we've bought it either these older ones who were probably their own children's juvies, but these people who have the salary of five thousand kunas, explain to them what their credit rating is now. We will discuss the creditworthiness of the Republic of Croatia, what Fitch or Moody's says, and we ourselves are killing the credit ability of our citizens who should be a consumption generator based on which we will plan economic growth. Which is why we do it, because of the pamphlets, because of the pulsism, to collect political points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2275	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2276	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lackovic, not just you, but unfortunately all of us here, including ourselves, are mixing through this proposal for the law of pears and apples. One is the executive law and one is that we intertwine, I agree with you, because of the pulsism of the Social Care Act or that famous law that I just mentioned in the replica of Mr. Grbino back in '96. The law on renting social housing. Those two things we're absolutely mixing. I couldn't agree with you either, but I couldn't agree with my colleagues who say that at the local level he takes very good care of social welfare but unfortunately there are no laws other than certain regulations within the local community that regulated the situation that there after the adoption of this law in '97, '98. Some local communities have already shared certain social housing. It's been 20 years now, these people are no longer a social category, they're not a social case. While in the same local community you have a ranking list of people who are socially needed. You bring the rulebook and then the one who's in the apartment, who's given the local community her own apartment today goes to court with you and given the pending legal, legally gets it. And his son, perhaps, may live in his apartment today, an entrepreneur or anyone who knows who, in the town's apartment, a municipal, county apartment. But that's the problem, I repeat, not this one that made the proposal MOST, but that's the problem of the Law on Social Welfare and the Law that I once again need to change urgently and be somewhere in the package with this law, the Law on the Rent of Social Stans by local communities because it is really old and too old and does not give local communities the opportunity to get what they gave at a certain point of social need in their local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2277	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2278	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lackovic, I refer to the part where you spoke about the massacre, meaning executive procedures. I am also of the opinion that this massacre is preceded by other massacres before it does, so before the finals come to the very end because today I am unfortunately obliged to talk about a single mission that means or an act that happens in the municipality from which I come from, from the municipality of Lopar from the island of Rab which is not even poor, where people are quite wealthy, there are not many social cases but there has been a classic fraud. A family with three adults and two children today must go out because they long wanted to do what they wanted and it was an existing facility to restore it, raise it to a higher level, solve their housing issue, make one apartment, earn money and thereby repay the loan. However, there has been a classic fraud by an advance contractor, an advance does not invest in the facility, starts the works, leaves the works at the initial stage, disappears, ends in bankruptcy, and unfortunately this family has to get out today. The judicial system has punished one classic fraud in such a way that whoever had an honest intention must go out for the unfair purposes of some others. And that's true, I say that we talk about today, and there's always two ends. who was smart or who didn't know how to make a good move in time. This law that we are talking about has been changed many times and will change safely in the future and some other times. I think it's a good reason that we can start thinking about some of the measures that the state has to take to protect in some way these people who are going to say in one of the municipalities that is pretty much, which now has a few thousand apartments that are actually apartments in family homes but which are neither owned nor state-owned, and the question is, how do we say under this law meet such a need for a family to settle somewhere? Who will help, in the end, will the chief have to do something, will the state react, since the problem unfortunately exists? But I'll talk about it more than once during the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2279	Thank you, too. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2280	Thank you. So you mentioned one word of fraud. So fraud is a fraud, a criminal offence that needs to be sanctioned by the competent municipal state attorney's office. In order for them to function in a globally efficient way, they need to be relieved of the fine objects of execution and of petty non-essential things, and then the satisfaction of that family will be found within a reasonable time before there is any eviction or eviction. But I'm telling you again, the most common thing that happens is that they don't get hurt by people who just because of the bad executive law failed to collect their own, they're hundreds and hundreds of craftsmen, and they couldn't because they were working with companies, that d.o.o.s that were simply shut down, they couldn't collect their claim but they ran into a massacre. All of them were charged even for private property because as private ones they simply corresponded, or craftsmen completely with their entire assets. And these are also the problems that should be solved through the Executive Act, not that craftsmen expose themselves to these situations to fully fit their entire assets and their debtors flee, unsensured, not fulfilling their obligations under the contract because they founded J.D.O. or d.o.o. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2281	Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2282	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Lackovicu in many ways that I agree with you primarily in that this law was not done in a way to analyse the consequences it would bring because if the consequences were to be solved by only a hundred people who would be left without an apartment that they had some accommodation for a year and a half. It's a good thing, a noble thing, but a lot of negative things will bring. That's what you said in your debate. First of all, I don't think it's just going to reduce the credit potential, but it's going to collect the loans, because the risk of payment on these loans is going to be higher and the interest is also going to rise. On this side, we will ask ourselves in a year, two days, why in Croatia are housing loans 5.6% and in the EU or Austria 2%? Well, one of the reasons will be this reckless law-making. On the other hand, tell me, who's gonna rent these people an apartment? So this is where he says that the state is going to pay people a monthly rent for an apartment, so you tell me who's going to rent those 100 apartments on the market now, and what's it going to be? Probably those who can't be rented to anyone because none of the private owners will rent an apartment to a person who'll be in trouble again in a year and a half and then they'll have to discuss how to get out of the apartment, etc. Well, this is inconclusive. This isn't going to happen. No one who can rent an apartment on the market will rent these people an apartment. Why would you rent them, then another year have a problem with whether they'll get out, won't come out, etc. In the end, that rent will not even be enough to cover certain costs that it will eventually have to do with. So this isn't going to work. And it would be interesting if someone with one move of feathers with 3 million kunas solves the problem of the people who have been done. Well, that's impossible, I guess it's clear to everyone in Croatia that this is impossible and that this is pure populism, which unfortunately cannot be implemented. If only these 100 people could be spent, I'd be happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2283	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2284	Thank you. So, well-sighted consequences. It's true that none of the private owners will want to rent an apartment like this for 18 months, but you know who will? He wants those who have already taken someone's apartment in a similar way and have it on the side, and we will also be able to please the teams who have taken the apartments and have the extra ones, they don't need it, and they're fine with the state paying them rent during the 18 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2285	Thank you very much. The next replica is a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2286	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lackovic, I agree with you, of course, in this piece that you have already said. Every time we have a problem, we need to look for a solution. And what's dangerous is that with a solution we don't create new problems. Of course the role of the executive law is to be effective. That's actually the point of the whole story. What we're trying to alleviate is the consequences of somehow humanizing this process. And I agree with you that this way we're not gonna make it. And why is that? We're actually every one, you said you took out a loan and I took out a loan, we're buying time with a loan. Of course we're also at risk at that time. And I'm going to talk now from that aspect of people who don't belong in the area of the state's attorney's office that you mentioned, so someone takes a job at... prices and then cheats on the co-operatives, so it doesn't pay them off. I'm gonna talk about people who made apartments and then in those cases, they're out of work, so I can't meet my obligations anymore. Banks in these cases don't need real estate, what banks need is money. And they're actually taking this one real estate as collateral to have security, because people are mostly connected to what they're building and what they're building themselves. And what can the state do if that happens? The state must react as soon as possible. First of all, what I think are active employment measures because every entrepreneur probably has a logic to hire a highly motivated man who has to repay loans. If we look at the Scandinavian countries that have made the role of the union very high-level, we have the Employment Office. So even unions take that role, because unions are motivated to put man back on the labour market as soon as possible, so he can meet his obligations. And that's what the state has to do. So the sooner a man gets back so he can realize his existence and eventually get back what he owes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2287	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2288	Thank you. So, you mention banks too, so banks are intermediaries between those who build, so the construction sector and industry and someone are selling apartments. You organize it without banks, so you can't. The bank is finally looking for its money, and it's right, it's private property, it's being protected by the Constitution, we've been determined to be a market economy since we were 90, and how would we now forbid the bank from charging its own? So imagine that you're charging your own, if you're a construction contractor now, there's no bank anymore, the banks don't believe in this legal system, you have some money, by interest you're a builder, you decide on a business venture, you make a nice building, you sell people apartments, they say on a pay-off we'll pay you that, but suddenly here he wouldn't pay. So, you get into trouble, there's other obligations, and now you have understanding for a while, but you say look, I've paid my suppliers there, I bought iron, brick, everything you need and they're printing me. You have to pay me because you didn't pay me all of a sudden. And then do you have an understanding of the reasons why the perpetrator, or your debtor, does not pay you? No, you have the only solution to say please get out so I can sell it to someone who will buy it and pay me fair and square. But let's not make a deal with banks, the banks had El Dorado in Croatia because someone allowed them, the banks needed them, they know how to do very well and politely, and those if we get them a legal framework will do so. But without banks, it doesn't work, and people who are really in bad situations where they can't fulfil their obligations will solve these problems right through the social state, through the obligations of local self-government and through the balancing of funds from the state budget because local self-government cannot do it alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2289	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2290	Thank you, fellow Vice President of the Parliament. Here's my colleague Lackovic I wanted to replicate on your claim when you said that when people settled in apartments that who would move them out, that there would be a problem with the state moving them out. Here I can tell from my experience you have cases where people are running disputes with the state. Let's say work dispute, lose him. The dispute lasted 10 years, huge costs of lawyers, court costs, etc., tight interest, etc. They can't pay for it, of course. The executions came and lost their only real estate. There are also many cases where government taxes sell the only real estate at auction. And a very close case is one of our first cases, the Vukic family case. Therefore, I'm not sure the state is going to be able to move people who owe them. However, she always looks at herself first to collect, and then let's say he was a craftsman as he was with the Vukic family. When they'll collect their claims. It's when hard, but the state will certainly charge its money quickly and efficiently. Another example is that since fellow Simic did not give my question yesterday, he did not give too much of an answer, which will be after 18 months, and that is very important. People, if they're going to be placed in those rooms, it's very important. So we need to define it and know it. Imagine if we took one military station, there's a lot of military property owned by the MORH, the state, and there's 20 families. It expires for 18 months. We're going to have a mega-dejacation. So who's in the interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2291	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2292	Thank you. So we're full of examples of fellow Sincic in our practice, and they're actually showing that our judiciary isn't effective. So then I'll tell you from my practice one case. So, the gentleman's name is Shocker Young. He died working in German as an employee of Opig company in 1996. Since 1999, I've represented him, this year he canceled my power of attorney because I failed to charge him anything. I've invested my legal fees on maybe 500 thousand kuna. We've reached a verdict of power. Profectus bought Opig's company, they dragged the company into bankruptcy. The bankruptcy is conducted in front of the Trade Court. A man has a claim over a million kunas, a broken spine, a destroyed health. He received a partial payment at the beginning of the procedure by which he bought a house for which the difference was raised by a loan waiting to solve the problem with his family. It's where they defuse it. It's all over the place. Man doesn't believe in this legal system at all. I'm looking at situations like that, too. So the key problem is the efficiency of the judiciary. If he had charged what he needed if the state had been effective then, or the judiciary, he would have settled his debts and he would have been a happy man today, and today he is probably the voter of the Living Wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2293	Thank you. No more replicas. And then we move on to the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2294	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the second day we're discussing the bill on amendments and additions to the executive law, and what we can say is the implementing law is the law that every system knows. No, I mean a legal system that doesn't have a law like this, and the purpose of that law is an effective and quick collection of claims. Therefore, through the courts, through the public notaries, the FINA conducts a forced collection procedure, forced by saying that the execution of obligations defined by either the solemnized contracts, whether in judicial judgments, because in this way the state must function if a person is not bound by the obligation, it must open the executive procedure and thus come to what it belongs to. However, in the framework of these executive laws, or as they are already otherwise referred to by other legal systems, there is also a certain solution where it is in fact a way that protects the dignity of the perpetrators, where the exceptions are actually prescribed and that cannot go into effect. For example, these are economic buildings, for example, means to work, they're somewhere and the only real estate people live in. So he's trying to protect the perpetrator so he doesn't lose his existence. And when we look at actually our entire executive system and the law as we've been changing backwards for ten years, we've actually raised those standards and the SDP government in 2014 in the last amendments to the Implementing Law, and they've raised certain standards for the protection of the perpetrators. Of course, we are in a situation today that we have over 300 thousand people who are under arrest, which is why we cannot remain silent as the representative body of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We certainly won't solve these problems with this law. The only way these problems can be solved are economic activities, it's employment, it's greater social activity, and I want to believe. We're the Parliament that's only at the beginning that's been established. The government is only at the beginning that the policy we will be leading in our mandate this four years will lead to some better results and a better position for Croatia. These fragile numbers that still give hope, I want to believe in them that we as a locomotive will raise them up. Because as we can see and see, the public debt has been reduced and the social gross product has been increased. We see that this year, for all those who are against the EU, we have withdrawn almost 5 billion kuna in the last 9 or 10 months. So it's a very decent infusion into a system that someone is absolutely sure to feel. As those numbers grow, as it goes, we'll have less to do. People will be busy, we'll have fewer evictions. What I would say specifically in this law is I think the intensity and purpose of the law is good. We've all praised that more or less. We have, of course, certain technical remarks, we have nomotechnical remarks and therefore it is very good that the law goes into two readings, that everything that has been here and here in the Parliament has been great debates, there have been excellent proposals that the promoter and colleagues from the MOST Club need to make a good analysis of, that they should see for another reading a law that could sublime all that is there for this speaker and in this Assembly. There's a lot to implement. In any case, I would say the most significant thing is this accommodation, when a man means he stays on the road, when that only property is sold to him, then this law offers one solution that the state will, for a certain time, come on for a year and a half, that the state will take care of him for that time, provide him with accommodation, pay for accommodation or move him into an apartment owned by the Republic of Croatia. This is one measure, and it is not unknown because once upon a time, long ago, the law of execution was called that he had such a provision, but a little unfairly placed that obligation on the executive. Because that wasn't too meaningful. But that system is not unknown and that solution is not unknown. So I think this is a solution that's offered well here. The remarks that have been made who decides how many squares and all of these are relevant remarks that need to be considered but I would still point out here one measure that I like the same, which is that we can't sell the only real estate and put people on the road because of the lewd claims. This is where that line was put to be 20 thousand kuna. And that's to think if it should be more, is that it should be less. But I like that. Because the same thing was you know once real estate was sold for 1 kuna because there was no limit that at the second or third auction you couldn't sell it below a certain value. So they sold for one single kuna of real estate, and the debt to the executioner remained. It was actually a tragic solution that, at one point, the Supreme Court interrupted. That's why I like this provision. With that in mind, I would suggest that colleagues from the MOST Club think about another variant, which is that in those exceptions to the performance, it means both the economic building and all that, we put as an exception the only real estate. It means that it can't be the subject of the exercise at all except, because the law always has what it is, unless, too, we don't want to prevent and defend people that I can say with my own statement that I'm giving up this grace in a possible executive procedure, I, like myself, am aware of my situation, of my income, I want to mortgage it. In this way, we may partially resolve these problems that very relevant fellow Lackovic has warned here. Let us not, in fact, reduce the credit capacity of citizens because it will reflect such a provision safely if we ban it completely that individuals are mortgaged on the only real estate they will not naturally be able to obtain a loan but if they are already aware that they will be able to get away with it, then I would leave them the possibility that they, in their own separate statement, can give up this kind of grace. Here, think and see. I think it's in some kind of comparative system, and it does, and I think Italy works that way. I think that would be one decent solution. I know, people are gonna tell us what we got? The banks will force them to. They don't have to force them, they don't have to force them at all. There are other means of insurance that can be given. And what's important is I think I need to spread a business culture to our people because I have experience from my office, too, and I can tell you that I've been visited by people who have died as a guarantee. The guarantee was actually a question for our pals, which we would say. I don't know about two gemists, so I sign my name, I'm a bailiff, and I don't even think about what that could lead to. And a lot of people got hurt that way. It must be well thought out when to enter or enter into a loan or when to enter into a guarantee contract like this that can lead to it. As a colleague, I haven't dared to go into my life for 30 years. I've always been a maximum of five years, and my first thought was tomorrow after you signed the loan agreement, you could get hurt, it might not be. Your debt remains to those who come behind you and you must have a solution for that variant. Don't make banks, don't do anybody else's work, but you have to have for yourself and do your family securely how you're gonna get out of it. I think that we should simply gather around this law as a Parliament as a party because we cannot really remain silent about everything that is happening in society. These images have been shaken, and we see that 20% of the citizens live in poverty, in fact. It's hard stuff. As far as I'm concerned, I think there's room for the promotion of this protection of the perpetrators in the executive law. Of course, we must not violate the system because we must have a balanced system, in fact, in which both the archduke and the perpetrator exist. Let us not forget that by virtue of the Law of Law, many children have charged child support from unconscious parents who have not paid child support. And many small craftsmen, businessmen, companies paid off the unconscious business partners of the claims they had. And when they charged them, they could pay their employees their salaries. Thus, care should be taken to ensure that the law is not prone to performers or executives. I think these solutions that are installed here should technically be done quite safely. Let us also consider these new ideas that a colleague from the “Franak” Association said yesterday had a whole series of very constructive great remarks and proposals very concrete. For some, I think there's already an answer in the law itself, and for some I think I'm already the law that's in force, and some people need to be thought about. Here we will support this law in our first reading, and we urge you to consider all these proposals and remarks that we have made, and of course, because the law is in the regular procedure that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be included. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2295	Thank you, fellow Bosniak. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2296	Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, you had a soft debate compared to this bill and I like that approach and attitude. You said that both this composition of the government and this assembly of parliament is at the beginning, but given the economic and social crisis in which the Croatian society is located, I believe that we would agree that we must all give the maximum, that we must run faster. Mr. Bosnjakovic, okay? That the economic growth that Croatia has is not enough for us, that the relationship between pensioners and workers threatens the pension system, that our number of unemployed is too large, that our number of permanent employees is too small, that the laws are mutually non-compliant, thus inconclusive, that entrepreneurs are looking for clear, enforceable and sustainable rules and that is why, definitely, what I said in the previous replica, we must stop with pulsism and politics. And what you called at the very end and said that we are not destroying a system in which I fully agree with you because it is a responsible approach, that we are indeed through this law and through all others we are looking for complete, content and systematic solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2297	Thank you. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2298	Thank you very much. I'm aware of all the problems I've mentioned myself, but I want to believe that as a new synergy, we're going to raise these fragile numbers that still offer optimism, macroeconomic ones that are positive that we're going to raise them up in this term. And that's actually the best answer to the situation we're in. You definitely saw in my debate I stood up for a balanced system because this judicial government must not be prone to either side, nor to the other side, it must be balanced because this law must also benefit children when the executives are able to collect their claims for alimony from unconscious parents. But we must also find understanding for those citizens who have children and who must not end up on the road as was said in previous discussions, the Constitutional Court has taken a stand that man cannot be excluded from water. Then we really need to do some mechanisms so he can't lose some kind of home.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2299	Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bošnjaković, here I am shocked positively that you have just now said that the only real estate should be excluded from the exercise, you have made that proposal, we certainly support it and we propose to the promoter MOST that certainly in the context of this bill, put the amendment, put that supplement on that that the only real estate is exempt for a simple reason because it protects the Croatian Constitution as well. Namely, we have point 34. The constitution that says home is invulnerable, we have point 3. The constitution guaranteeing the integrity of ownership, we have point 1. The constitution that says that Croatia is a social state and we have point 35. A constitution guaranteeing everyone's respect and legal protection for his personal and family life, dignity, respect and honor. As MP Bosnjakovic said, the scene of the raids does not protect citizens' dignity, they are painful and humiliating, and this solution to accommodate citizens in some social housing only delays this humiliation because new action will take place, new trauma will occur. Some families will be moved, children will have to move to other schools, other kindergartens, people will have to travel to work, and they will simply be deposed twice, twice will pay the cost and twice will go through all this together. So we from the Living Wall as one of the solutions to the executive law certainly support the idea that the only real estate is excluded from the performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2301	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2302	To be clear, I propose this as a fundamental principle that enters the fundamental principles and exceptions, but with one addition, it indicates that an individual should be left with the possibility of leaving the individual with a separate statement to be denied and blessed in the event of a possible execution. This means that young people who want to come up with loans that want to buy an apartment, if they have security, if they have job guarantees, if they have a well-insured job that they can tell me I don't need it, I'm sure I'll do my duty. But I also said in my debate, we must work on a business consciousness of our citizens. They must not consider it a guarantee contract to be a statement of friendship to someone who is guaranteed by it, but rather a serious legal job in which they can get seriously hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2303	Thank you. Next replica, esteemed colleague Ivan Anusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2304	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's listening to the exposition of the predecessors I want to relate that I also come from local self-government and I've been there for 12 years and in the area of my local self-government there are at this point 190 objects owned by the Republic and of these 190 objects twenty of them are completely empty at this point. It's about family homes made for our returnees from former deserters in the process of rebuilding the victims in the Homeland War that were occupied. The problem that comes to light is very simple and it is called state property, state housing and DUDI agency. With the announcement of this new ministry that would deal with state property, I believe that it should be implemented precisely by this particular problem, which is that apartments, houses and facilities owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are currently completely unused, which are failing only because no one lives in them, that these facilities are exploited and that these objects are being used by all those who end up in this tragic situation, which is to remain without a roof over their heads. Their misfortunes and their tragedies are not only caused by theirs, by the withdrawal of potential credit and the inability to return, that responsibility is borne by all of us who deal with politics, this responsibility is borne by all of us who in some way brought Croatia and the society that lives in the situation that we do not have economic stability and that this is the kind of thing that comes about. With these new laws and new government, I hope and I'm sure, not only hope, but I'm sure there's a time coming and better economic situation and economic stability that's going to have less and less cases like this based on people with children and families ending up on the street. But here is one of the proposals, certainly, that apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia should be classified in solving these problems through the new ministry that has been announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2305	There is no reply to the replica, so then the word has a distinguished colleague Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2306	Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, you have said and mentioned all the governments so far and even the past SDP that we have been trying by law to enable and facilitate people who have found themselves in such a situation to cope with this crisis moment in their life. And you said in your speech a kind sentence that once there was a guarantee there was a question of a friend. Well, I'm convinced that 151 of us here as well as our neighbours that there is no man in Croatia who doesn't know any of these friends who have been bailing on someone, so he found himself in a situation where he got a recommended letter and he thought twice about whether he'd ever sign something like that again for someone. So the only benefit of all of these discussions and of all of our events, the sorrows that have taken place over the past years and these mirages is that and that old saying that every school costs. I am convinced that, among our citizens and here in our country, much more and much better will think about it and think about it when you take some kind of credit, when you move into some kind of debt whether you go into it or not and think about how I'm going to pay it back. The only real estate, or right to home, is mentioned here. Yes, and it should be supported and it must be a holy letter in all our heads but there must also be a holy letter in who owns that home when that home is going to invest in something that is not sure that it will be able to return. So the question of all of this from all of these discussions that we've heard here today is two. One is what I have to respect as a legal state and be aware of it, the exercise and what we have signed that we must respect because it is our obligation and we have taken it upon ourselves. And that other segment that's simple and it's easily resolved and it's called the social and how to help your neighbor and it has nothing to do with this law. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2307	Thank you very much. Next, is there an answer or no answer? There is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2308	Here's a quick one. I got it. It's true, so I don't think any of us who didn't, and even by this principle, the friend was a bailiff. I was, by the same principle, a guarantee, but I was lucky, so there were no consequences. I totally agree that people have to be careful when they get into credit and into these arrangements because the consequences sometimes know and can be actually catastrophic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2309	Thank you. The next is a distinguished colleague, Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2310	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a distinguished colleague of Bosnjakovic's. You've answered a lot, and then I'll cut it short. I was lucky, and I'm proud in the end that I was a guarantee because I think it's always good to help whoever needed it. And I wasn't in this situation fortunately that I was getting those letters, I wasn't even in a situation to raise some big loans in my life except for something small. But I wanted to share one thing with you, given that I'm receiving citizens, then I'll tell you that there are a lot of people in the city of Zagreb who are in this situation. And it's not easy to listen to that man. We can now think about why he got into it, for which reasons, obviously for some reason, he can't come back today because something happened to him. So it's not simple, but every law is better than no law. So I see this proposal as one step in solving this problem and all that we bring in terms of protecting someone, I believe this House should and should do. We said we'd go to complete and systematic solutions, which is absolutely right, you said we'd go to a balanced system and I support that. I also support that idea of yours about one real estate, but I'd like to ask you, perhaps, another sentence where you can explain it to us about one real estate. Because I have a fellow lawyer who told me if all of us could interpret the laws then my lawyers wouldn't have anything to do with it. So that we don't get some kind of empty space between two articles about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2311	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2312	As for guarantees, it's good to be a guarantee and people wouldn't get credit if they didn't have a guarantee. And I asked for someone to be my lender, but when I asked him to be my bail, that's when I went like this. People, when I take out a loan the next day they can get hurt and I'm gone, that's when that loan will be returned from it, from it, from it, from it, from it, from it and from it. I think that's the right approach. And when you get into that, you have to be absolutely sure of what you're getting into as my bailiff. As far as this idea is concerned about one real estate as an exception to the performance, the general principle of law would be that the only property a man has for the housing of himself and his family would be exempt from the commission, unless or unless you are aware of it and you wish to give up that privilege, and graces signed a statement for example by the notary and I said in case I did not pay the debt despite the legal well-being I accept that my property goes to the top. That would prevent those bans. It's not good for people to forbid. We heard, this is relevant what counterpart Lackovic said, let's not reduce the credit potential of our people either. This way I think we'd balance it out. Because now under the current law, the only real estate is not protected in this way. So even though you don't have the right to be a believer, you can go to the only real estate in the current situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2313	The sixth replica of the esteemed representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2314	Thank you very much. Comrade Bošnjakovic, I refer to that part of yours well thought out before we enter into credit. It is this example of a family that is being delegated today in the community from which I come that is similar to what you have said. They thought very well before entering such a loan, however, they did not know at the second degree that they would become the victim of the fraud of an irresponsible entrepreneur who takes their credit entirely for his job, does not solve what he had promised, so he leaves an unfinished facility, and as a second punishment follows them leaving the facility that was their property. I think that too must be part of the exception of the future Law on the Consummation that all that preceded the performance in the sense that it was committed as a crime in some form that such property should not be carried out because indeed these people were not guilty except that they had good faith that someone would do the job to him. They've been punished twice. So if we can't accept that whoever stole is set free and the one who was stolen, stolen to be punished again. Why am I saying that? Because we have a situation that this same family, maybe something that we need to think about again, wanted when she came up with a chance to buy back that property in the executive process, she made it impossible for them because whoever bought it for some little money no longer wanted to get into that relationship. People are emotionally bound to their properties where they live their entire lives, and I think we have to think that in some way they might be made possible because and when there's a chance that this happens then we come to the will of the individuals who make it impossible and people have to get out on the street even though they may have been able to get that house where they've been paying off. I think this law needs to be developed and we're going to say that together with our colleagues from the MOST until the second reading is fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2315	The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2316	Dear Vice President, I would like to thank my colleague Bosnjakovic for a constructive presentation. Of course, we have said this on many occasions that that's why we went into the regular procedure because we are ready to make all those constructive proposals, to apply criticism and to come up with the best solution. I thank you for recognising the good intensity of this law and stating all these things that go in favor of our citizens means as far as those who remain homeless over their heads where the state will either give replacement apartments or pay rent, and these three-quarters of protected income, means the most socially endangered. Also, as far as this demand is concerned, where we put a limit of 20 thousand kunas, it can be considered whether it can go towards a larger amount, and as far as this one property is concerned, we've been thinking about it and just so as not to make it impossible for young families to take credit for their apartment and to do damage to young families as well as construction and everything else. So we haven't decided on such a solution, but if this conditional provision were put in place then we have nothing against protecting it means home like, or that only real estate as some kind of right. So thank you for this presentation and, of course, we'll do yours, and there have been constructive proposals, you mentioned Mr. Alexic, I agree. So everything he suggested makes sense and should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2317	Thank you. And the last replica is Honorable colleague Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2318	Dear Vice President, here's a replica of my dear colleague. So I think this law that we've been discussing for two days is just an example that things in Croatia are not well prepared and are being passed over the knee. We've had a chance here to see the guarantees that have been sent into the procedure of which unfortunately we have to determine the fog. There is neither a reduced subscription for HRT nor a declared economic growth. And that's something that's obvious. So these guarantees clearly have nothing. This coming law is completely unprepared, and it is seen from everything that has not been covered by that law and which stems from this debate. The key problem I see is that citizens can hope for joint loans and the real estate market for uncertainty. Uncertainty because if this stays this way you will certainly have that many properties will have to be sold into invaluable property, on the other hand citizens will be exempt from the seized property which can definitely not be good in Croatia where one good part of the people combines the end with the end and on the third side as the part of the income is raised which simply cannot be taxed i.e.. You have a situation where credits will grow. He would also say something that I think is worrying, which is that this cost is transferred to the expense of social welfare and welfare centers. These welfare centres that have no income anyway will have to endure an additional 5 million kuna already in the coming years and because of the inability to withdraw European funds, they are actually the ones who took extra money with the current state budget minister. So the last government failed to withdraw European funds and took additional funds. And I'll tell you one last thing, if you'll allow the president, then the vice president is about the accommodations in the state flats. We don't know how much property we have now. This, I think, is a good thing that a ministry has been formed to better deal with state property. But the whole impression isn't good. Why? Because at the last minute after the government was formed into a new ministry, another important ministry And that's something that contributes to the fact that there are laws that come [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[/Intruder Jandroković: Thank you very much. We've been half a minute.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2319	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2320	I won't agree with you. I think the law is welcome. However, the law recognizes the problems that are in society. As he was made and as he was done, it was designed for first reading. So we have the space until the second reading to include both the professional public and all of us in this House. And as the Proposer said they're recording all this and they're actually ready for all those good proposals that are going to put them into the law. Here's the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2321	Thank you. We're going to the next club. It's a club of IDS representatives, on behalf of the club distinguished representative Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues, fellow representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here, on behalf of the club of the Istrian Democratic Assembly, the Primorje-Gorskina Alliance and the List of Rijeka, I would certainly like to welcome this initiative or the adoption of a law to help citizens who have found themselves in an uninvited situation that, because of the economic situation in the country or the loss of work, they have lost their income and are no longer able to fulfil their obligations or have come into a situation for some other reason that they cannot settle their debts and obligations. However, as a club we would also like to refer, I will say a well-intentioned criticism or a proposal to the legislators of this law in order to get to a better quality law, because we believe that this amendment to this Executive Act, but as well as other laws that come from the promoters in this case MOST, are not sufficiently prepared and come to the assembly benches without detailed analysis. In fact, in the last months of this conference, but also in that short last session, we have been able to hear countless times from the promoter of MOST that we will be preparing and making laws taking into account expert opinions as well as including maximum professions and all relevant cases and data involved in the drafting of these laws. However, this law, which has now come to the bench, has been built exclusively by the Ministry of Justice, which is otherwise led by a representative of the Most and has been left behind by inclusion of all other professional institutions such as the Croatian Bar of Law, Public Recording Chamber and the Association of Judges. Unfortunately, we are now witnessing that you did not take advantage of or achieve what you promised in the election campaigns, but I believe that through the possibility that you have given not to go into an emergency procedure, but that through two readings and after all these proposals that have come from the opposition and from the ranks of the ruling that both the Ministry of Justice will come up with quality solutions through public debate and through the involvement of the interested public. Surely what I had in mind, and I want to encourage that this proposal did not take care of one target group, and a large group of citizens are now mentioned by Mr. Bosnjakovic, and these are just the guarantees. Even though guarantees are being used less and less today as a loan payment instrument, there are still many of our citizens who are in a situation where they have to provide themselves and their families with the existence to pay for other people's credit. As I have pointed out, it is certainly commendable that we wish to facilitate the process and provide them with the basic means necessary for life during that period, but the same situation also guarantees on loans that debtors themselves cannot or I will say often do not want to pay. So, they use those opportunities that unquality laws allow us to manipulate and that others take over obligations and pay for them, and that's right through solving court proceedings, and it's been confirmed through discussions that our trials are too long and that our judiciary is ineffective. It would be fine, therefore, if we are already in favour of social justice to protect all citizens affected by this problem through comprehensive and complete amendments to the law. I will tell my colleague Grbino and the others I am not a lawyer and it is certainly not my topic, but I have experience as mayor leading one city through four full mandates and daily in contact with my fellow citizens who have these problems I will set an example from my community and perhaps this example, because I am ready to deliver all the documentation to facilitate the preparation of this law and the adoption of a quality solution. The following is the case that one person has raised more loans in the period from 2003 to 2006 with no less than 30 guarantees. Credits were raised at a time when the market was not yet sufficiently arranged. Namely, the Croatian Credit Liabilities Register was not yet established. Although this person has also been prosecuted and malfeasanced, with the money he received they have built real estate, I will not say real estate but real estates that are rented even for tourist purposes in Istria and earning profits. Our legal system, our executive law, our banks sat down on the accounts of all the bailiffs while the owner of the property and debtor simply enjoys, earns and has no opportunity, so the guarantees do not have their means of protection. That is why we must surely see through this law how we handle cases like this. The fact is that banks want to settle their cash flow first, and they execute those guarantees, rather than settle for the sale of real estates that have been built. We often said in the debates that guarantees i.e. one third of the salary is suspended and the amount higher than those 3794 kuna, which is two thirds of the average net salary paid in the Republic of Croatia. The guarantee may receive the maximum amount referred to, but also a smaller amount to be paid to that protected worker account. However, through this law we propose to make up for the same fees as Christmas, all kinds of severances, the regress for vacations, employers' rewards, stimulations, so everything that is above that amount of 3794 kuna is paid to a protected employee account, not like today on a normal current account where practically these coins are immediately executed. But not to go into details now, but in this brief statement of the above case, it is evident that there is an indetermination of the law and the possibility of manipulation. Our goal is that just when we're passing laws to avoid it. I am aware that in order to regulate the right of this group of citizens, other related laws, such as the Law on Mandatory Relations and Others, should be amended. And I find that approach right. It means that we are not going to the ad hoc system, but to consider all other laws that are closely connected and that we are not coming into a situation where we come into conflict with the law. As a group of citizens on their case, I have to say that here for this speaker, have detailed knowledge and informed the Minister of Justice, the President of the Republic, the then Vice-President of the Government of Mr. President-in-Office of the current Parliament Mr. Bozo Petrov and today's vice president and former President of the Parliament Mr. Zeljko Reiner. As the state administration is working on us from no institution, this group of citizens has received no response to this day. And then we expected that at least they would be mentioned in this law as guarantees to be somehow protected. If it already means we can't ensure that first the loans are settled by selling real estate again and that only after that it reaches for payment through guarantees can we allow these amendments to the laws to allow the guarantees not to be ambushed by due severances, regresses for vacations and other fees. For the purposes of drawing up a final draft of the law, we are willing to submit the full documentation as regards this case since it is certainly not isolated to protect all categories of citizens affected by the process of enforcement if we are already going to change the law. Finally, I would like to say that I understand the proposal that the law does not put into practice immediately after the constitution of the Parliament because it was also part of your pre-election promotion but I cannot understand why if you consider these topics so important for the functioning of the state, you have not decided to speak again professionally and thoroughly and thus ensure their smooth implementation and after winning, considering all the consequences that this law can cause. I don't want to repeat that other group because Mr. Lackovic talked about it, but the fact is that by this law we will certainly question new credits or opportunities for young people to be in debt through loans to achieve their life goals. We must consider this detail to be done. I note, this law is not a social solution, it's an executive law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2323	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. First replica, esteemed colleague Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2324	First of all, what you've noticed, Mr. Agent, is actually one experiment, but we can't experiment on humans. This must not happen in Croatia. We must prepare laws so that they respond to the challenges of time and so that people do not suffer with them. This law comes completely unprepared. No government opinion. Well, you're in the government, you've just formed a government. We expect you to install these things in the final bill. What are we talking about here? We have a situation that the citizens will be staying in state housing. We don't even know how many of these state-owned apartments he has. We don't know what function state property is in. We have now received a ministry that should deal with state property, I said immediately after the formation of the government that there would be some disagreements. At the time, it was the Ministry without a portfolio. But today it was formed yesterday after the government was formed. So, we formed a week after the government formed a new ministry i.e. The announcement is the formation of a new ministry. Well, that only speaks of one unserious approach. Well, if something's going well, then it can't happen that you're going out with one proposal, so in three days, you're fixing the same proposal. You're the government now. On the third hand, what I'm trying to say is that my people can't be experimented on people and on the other hand expect this problem to solve things. Well, she can't work things out if she hasn't given that opinion to the government herself. So, I'm trying to tell you that when it comes to exposure, we experiment with the cost of credit to citizens and experiment with the real estate market. So we have to do everything to prevent these potential problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2325	Thank you very much. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Nikola Grmoy's.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2326	Article 232 of the Rules of Procedure means that my colleague Bernardić, obviously in the campaign, is away from the topic, and here I would ask him to stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2327	Okay. I appreciate your objection, but I think it was borderline on the subject, so I don't think it hurt the Rules of Procedure. Meanwhile, a colleague, Bernardic, also reported with the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2328	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. First of all, what you took to protect the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I will refer to Article 238, because it is not possible to intervene and abuse space with the instrument of violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2329	Thank you very much. There was no abuse, and so was his counsel's understanding that you hurt the Rules of Procedure. You didn't hurt him, so we're moving on. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you, Mr Bernardic, that this is even said to be a semi-product, but our obligation as parliamentary representatives is to contribute to our discussions, to the debates, because we understand the wish of the Most, they promised it in the election campaign, and they aim at making it as soon as possible, even if not prepared, insufficiently quality, without seeing the consequences they will cause. But that's why we're here to correct them a little because it's our obligation. However, you mentioned state-owned apartments in the replica, and today there was a lot of talk about these state-owned apartments. I believe the register that DUDI made that all these apartments were registered. But from my own experience, I know that there are many apartments and empty ones, that they don't even know today that their apartments are empty and that we at local level simply want these apartments to function to solve our social problems. And that's why what Mr. Tomislav said about that stuff should be transferred to local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2331	Thank you very much. Next in line with the replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2332	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Demetlika, so your exposure was partly constructive because you listed concrete things that should be included in this Implementing Law and I thank you for that. We didn't go into emergency procedures just to listen to all the constructive proposals and put them in this bill. I don't agree with your part of the presentation where you said MOST promised something, didn't do it, so it's just the fact that we're starting to amend the executive law. I think it's a unique position here in this assembly that this proposal is better than the current executive law, and all those remarks that stand and make sense we're willing to respect and I thank you for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2333	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2334	I see Mr. Grmoya's colleague understands me well. My intention was simply that in the process of preparing this proposal of yours, you could have included institutions that certainly do not have enough experience for us to be present in this sector, we are not lawyers to prepare the material as best as possible, in order to bring about a law as quickly and efficiently as possible that will help all those you have stated and need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2335	Third replica, dear colleague Marko Vezligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Demetlik, we've heard here today a lot of things that should be complemented through this law, otherwise we wouldn't probably be discussing it the second day, under-concretioned. We've heard it's a small step, and actually, like most of these Most guarantees, we're getting very unprepared. What I would look at is a little right to accommodation. So apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia problem their existence actually, I come local units from the town of Pregrada and almost don't own them. It was put here as a compensation to pay cash fees for those expenses. But what I'd like to say is, I think it's all going towards the direction that it's going to get through again and it's going to fall back on the local self-government that just doesn't have the means to do it anymore. Socials, we know how much we have to set aside for the social welfare of the housing costs themselves, from the very purchase of apartments that we have to allocate, there's no easy means for that, and I believe that still these changes that we're hearing tax changes that are currently going on just so that local self-government can be reduced, that we'll finally hear some compensatory measures for it, so that we can also be involved in helping our citizens who will be executed. We don't mind it, though, we do, and we can do it, but give us the means to do it through changes in the development index, through tax reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2337	Thank you very much. There's no response to the replica, so let's go to the next one. Dear colleague Marin Škibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2338	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Here I was listening to Mr. Tulio's presentations, while I was listening to the show, people from Rab come in and say that there's a little mirage going on there now, with underage children. Therefore, it is a Croatian reality and reality, while we are discussing here in the Council on the Executive Law, the current eviction is being carried out. I want to bring the HDZ and MOST gentlemen's problem closer to the need to move towards an expeditional solution to these problems. Because if it doesn't move into an expeditional solution, there will be an explosion of execution, and the result will be social unrest and political instability. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2339	We're moving on to the fifth line. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2340	Dear counterpart Tulio, I agree with you that the government's opinion is important here and that in some ways I support the position, or the SDP's proposal to conclude, given that this is, not a matter involving one ministry but at least 3.4 ministries. And this matter is touched by 3.4 policies that are more weak or more powerful in Croatia. And I said yesterday in my statement that there is neither a real estate policy owned by the Republic of Croatia nor a housing policy as such because we spend a lot of energy and time over the performances over the living space which is really a problem. But every mirage someone has to tell me what the mirage is about. They're not all dissuasions because of the performance. What I still want to say and what we do not have is that such serious laws should have their valorisation in 6 months, over a year here in the Croatian Parliament to be seen, to get a report on how they are implemented and what effects they have on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We don't have that practice, but I think it would be necessary to introduce it. And the third thing I wanted to tell you, I'm increasing this from two-thirds to three-quarters of the amount that can't be done I wouldn't be worried about banks because banks will, living off interest and they'll charge their loan instead of seven years at 10, 12 years because their interest is interest. Thus, they can share their money on many monthly meals, so we do not have to worry about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2341	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2342	Thank you, Mr. Hrelja, but the replica, I believe you've heard exactly what I've said. That is exactly what I insisted that this law cannot work exclusively by the Ministry of Justice and this is a criticism to the Most, that others should have been included, and that means we fully agree. So it's not that we're passing the law just to bring it in and boast that we can bring it in, but we must certainly look at the consequences and results. That's exactly what we agree on. And I don't know why you've replicated me about banks, I haven't protected banks, the banks will certainly come, I've only protected that with this law if that limit value of borrowing increases that simply young families who decide to buy an apartment or some need for their normal life that the conditions of credit will certainly be tightened because the bank certainly wants to secure themselves for the refund of borrowed money. And in that case, there will be a simple blocking, i.e. These young people will be unable to obtain favourable loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2343	Thank you, too. We've finished discussing the clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate. The first to answer for the debate is a distinguished colleague, Branimir Glavas. He's gone, and he's losing his right to debate. After fellow Glavas, MP Ivan Pernar. I can see he's gone, too, so he's losing his right to debate. But that's why Gordan Maras doesn't lose the right to debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2344	Thank you very much. And I'm happy that you're holding the presidency today because if Mr. Rainer were here, I might not have the right to debate, so thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak. And first of all, I will express my disdain that none of the promoters are in the assembly, so here are the four representatives of MOST, neither Mr Runtic nor Bulj, nor Grmoja, nor Robert Podolnjak are here. Mr. Robert Podolnjak is justified because he has health problems but these three are not here to listen, to comment, and I would say look and give their vision to what the MPs are saying. Otherwise, the practice is that the proposings always had to sit down and be before the government or anyone else, it would be correct so that they are also MPs. So I'm thinking that maybe in this next law that MOST is proposing, it's about punishing 500 kuna to include an amendment to punish the 500 kuna promoters if they're not present at the Parliament's session. Maybe it would be useful because then maybe Mr. Bull and Thunder would be here with us right now and not like this. Although Mr. Grumoja doesn't mind commenting that someone can say something and someone can't say something. And I'm still going to say what I think no matter what the other MPs say, even if he ever disagreed with the representatives of his club. And here I think it's about once again creating impressions and unprepared law that's going to have a lot of serious consequences not only on the accomplished but also on a whole series of people who, for example, are going to want to take credit, who are going to want to buy an apartment or go on their own in life. So this is about two things. First of all, either it's about someone being comfortable, which I don't believe. I honestly don't believe the Most wants to favour the banking sector because de facto this law solves only their problem. So he's going to make it easier for those citizens who came under the roof, the banks they want to take up their property, because they're going to move out and pay them rent on the market. Secondly, it is either complete ignorance and lack of consideration of the consequences which unfortunately failed to prevent the HDZ Representatives' Club, which is a coalition partner, and probably because of most of them it must also support laws that do not solve or create any new problems at all. It's, it's not news at MOST, it happened, and yesterday we could have followed the 11 o'clock statement by Minister Dobrovic to close the refinery in Sisak. Because what the general refineries mean to us, what the general processing of hydrocarbons for Croatia means, and then two, three hours later, the same Mr. Dobrović tells us that closing the refinery in Sisak is not a topic at all. Who said anything about that? These are things that, unfortunately, happen with MOST as a rule. I wish they were exceptions, but they usually happen. Total inconsistency and ignorance of certain actions resulting in what consequences. At a refinery in Sisak that 600 people will be out of work because MOST wants to close the refinery in Sisak in the morning, and in the afternoon it does not want and in the Law executive that thousands and thousands of young people will have a problem taking credit in the bank, that banks will move people out of those apartments more easily and that eventually the state will take over the problem that banks may have now. And that's something we need to talk about here that no law is sent to this Croatian Parliament without seeing its consequences. As for the protection of people, which is why ladies and gentlemen don't completely make it impossible for us to carry out those social cases in the way that the bank goes to the bank to take over the state's obligation to pay off that loan and take over the property without people moving out. But I'm saying it becomes a social apartment for social cases that don't have any money, neither rent an apartment tomorrow, nor 18 months after this period that generously offers them as if in a year and a half of a day these people will suddenly get the means to live, buy an apartment and somehow provide themselves and their families. Why wouldn't the state take over such an apartment, sign up for property, take payment and make such an apartment a social apartment? And that's how we solve the question. Why would someone with 20 thousand kunas of wages and the only real estate that would protect that person and why would that person be paid for the apartment? We must introduce a category of social cases, i.e. people who are really difficult, social categories, and who will be protected by the state in a way that cannot be executed and thrown out of that property. Let them become social property users as long as they are in that position let them have the right to that apartment they were in. And then that would be a quality solution not to throw something in for a year and a half. After all, I'm very skeptical of who's ever going to rent these apartments on the market to people who were decommissioned from their apartments yesterday. Which is why someone would do it for some average rent that will be 1500, 2000 kuna and then after a year and a half he would have a problem if people didn't have the means to pay the rent further. So we haven't solved anything, we've expanded the problem that's going to escalate and that's going to affect a lot more people who help banks. Look, this is a paradox, this proposal by MOST helps banks not to have any problems today, here's a colleague here from the Living Wall that's exactly what's happening here. Most very clearly here orders we'll transfer him to his apartment, the state will pay him and the bank will be calm. She can take a stop later to sell it and close the demand. So the greatest benefit from this law, unfortunately, will not be executed, will not have citizens, but will have banks. I'm not saying that the intensity of a fellow MOST was bad but rather write a law from the hills of the valley, mountain range, valley, and then you have a situation as we have here that the law has neither the resulting positive effects nor will it bring any good to anyone. And until the second reading, I ask you to consider not jumping into a way for the state to pay rent for an apartment that no one will likely want to rent and where the problem will again be for people, but for a category of social housing to be introduced, for the state to take over the payment of these loans and to stand behind those citizens. If this is a hundred citizens a year, this rent will be nothing higher and the amount will be nothing more than what would be to assume the obligation to pay the loan further. And let the state take over these apartments and let the people be in them as long as there are social cases and as long as they have social status so that they simply can't take care of themselves, that they can't pay rent and that they can't secure their family. This would be a quality solution because look at people so if someone is already, I think perhaps among the novices these four MPs are also some Nobel Prize winner for the economy, that someone with 5 million kunas can solve the problem hundreds and thousands of people a year. If it were that simple, wouldn't someone think of it already? Wouldn't someone for five million kunas a year solve the problem of execution in the Republic of Croatia? So it's just that the fact that five million kunas don't solve anything tells you that basically this law won't solve the problem. He'll escalate, he'll get bigger. And the only ones who will benefit from it in the short term are the banks again. And now I don't know and I hope that this is about ignorance and not about the intention of helping someone as it was yesterday also about not knowing and not finding Minister Dobrovic who probably didn't want to help MOL but said something that he obviously believed deeply, which is that in Croatia we don't need the production of hydrocarbons, or we don't need a refinery. So our energy minister, look out that paradox is a person who believes there should be no production of hydrocarbons in Croatia. It's something we could only get in this variant of MOST-HDZ. Someone who's directly interested in hiring people, in making our production as successful as possible, as stronger as possible. Tomorrow they'll be pushing for our refineries to be closed in Sisak and Rijeka. And I am glad that Prime Minister Plenkovic said at a cabinet session today exactly the opposite that we will not allow these refineries to be shut down and that the Croatian company will not be an exposition of MOL. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2345	Thank you, too. We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honorary colleague Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will first of all point to Article 236. A Rules of Procedure which says that a representative who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure gives the President the floor as soon as he asks. In fact, more than half of his exposure, half of the opening part of his presentation spoke about refineries, etc. Minister Dobrovic, who has absolutely nothing to do with this topic of the agenda, and injured Article 232. The Rules of Procedure, because he had moved away, did not go away, but was not at all in the subject of the agenda. So I'm going to think this time that you warned him, and I'm going to ask you next time he doesn't get hurt by the Rules of Procedure when he starts talking about what has nothing to do with the agenda, take away his word immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2347	Thank you very much, counsel. I followed closely what my colleague Maras was saying and he really got away from the topic, but quickly returned to the topic, so he almost, almost hurt the Rules of Procedure. But I don't think he's hurt him to the end, but a warning, and I'm asking everyone, really, not to go any further than the subject we're talking about. Thank you very much. The first replica of the distinguished counterpart Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2348	Thank you, Mr. Maras. Here's what I would have just gotten attached to exactly what was said. I can't believe you've been working on MOST one-third of your exposure. Looks like she's obsessed with MOST because yesterday I was listening to your exposure, today, so you haven't moved since the beginning. So, what we heard yesterday I heard again today. So I don't see people sitting here listening to twice the same thing. I would really invite you to take advantage of your right, so that the remarks you have on the proposal submitted by the Most Representatives' Club. Just put the amendment on, and we've made that clear, and that's exactly what this whole thing is about. This deviation in the direction around the INA Refinery. If I followed Mr. Dobrovic well yesterday, he gave an interpretation later. In fact, he made it clear which one is his, and I don't see why you should be his spokeswoman. I think he has a spokeswoman in the ministry, so I'd like to ask you to stick to the subject. But I'm saying, this is me welcoming your efforts to improve this proposal, and I'm really telling you to do it through the amendment because this is how you're actually drawing on all of us time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2349	Thank you, too. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2350	First of all, Mr. Panenich, I'm not here for you to take up your time. I'm here for my constituents and I ask you to respect them. So there are people who elected me to the Croatian Parliament and you won't tell them why I'm here and what I'm supposed to do. I'll say what I think and how I want to say it. On the other hand, I don't know you're a new agent, you probably don't know that there are no amendments in the first reading. You should have studied the Rules of Procedure. I'd write an amendment if it were that possibility. But in the second reading, you will receive amendments because I believe that there will be no law prepared, or that it will be in line with the Most for the last year unrealised promises and suggestions, and not only unrealized but also from the concreteisation of miles away. On the other hand, as far as Mr. Dobrovic is concerned, I am not his spokesman. I share the concerns of hundreds of thousands of our citizens who heard in the morning what we need refineries. What is hydrocarbon production anyway? That's what Mr. Dobrović was saying. You want me to take a look at your quote? Well, that's what I was saying. Which is why I wouldn't point that out here as a problem. That's not my problem. This is the problem of the citizens of Sisak, the citizens of Rijeka and ultimately the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And as long as you have ministers who don't get along, who are denigrating their ideas and desires because they think it's unpractical to say it. Mr. Dobrovic is against the production of hydrocarbons in Croatia. Try to figure it out. It's his intimate desire. But we can't let him do that. And I'm glad Prime Minister Plenkovic won't allow it. Here I support Prime Minister Plenkovic in not shutting down Rafineri in Sisak. You don't know if you support and Mr. Dobrović I'm absolutely sure he doesn't support. And I'm not obsessed with MOST except the bridge of sighs in Venice. It's a beautiful bridge. When I saw him, I was really impressed. With this MOST, not that I'm not bewitched, but I think you're doing catastrophic things.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2351	I'm sorry the time has elapsed to hear what else colleague Maras is bewitched by, who knows what we'd find out. But now it's my colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2352	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Maras, you mentioned in your debate that this law goes hand in hand to the banks. I can agree with that. The law is not meant to protect the perpetrators, but to protect the banks, and I'm afraid it's actually about hurting the pre-election promises. People actually do social cases here. Unfortunately, what happens is it's a common case of performance, and I'm talking about debt business here. The case is that people get into a residential loan and, say, 30 years back and I don't know 60, 70% credit. There's a black day in their life, they don't pay a few wars, they stop the loan, you can't go back completely, and then there's the execution, then the first auction, the second auction, and it's often that for a much smaller amount than the one for which the real estate was bought to sell now, and that kind of family is just waiting for a raid, waiting for the street. Therefore, and what is a key thing and what is actually an archetype of action because of a long example of this kind is not achieved by such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2353	Thank you, too. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2354	I absolutely support you in that finding. That's what I said. So let's introduce a social status category. If someone has satisfied that category, sometimes the state instead of giving rent money to the apartment to take over that apartment and make that apartment a social apartment and let no one move out. Because you're right, it's only here to solve the problem of the bank. And second, someone for small money to take an apartment, for small money. Because we know how these banks do business, do you have any real estate, when there's going to be some business, etc. to buy an apartment for 25, 30 or 50%. So, I'm going to expand, it's not just about banks, it's about an interesting lobby that later trades with those hundreds or some apartments that should be here to protect the citizens. So let's solve the problem systematically. If a person is socially threatened, if he needs help from a state behind him, he should take that apartment, pay for the loan, and after a man loses that status, let the state remain that apartment. So now we have the Ministry of Property, you can trade with... We'll have him. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's something that I think will be my job and the future ministry's job to be effective in that real estate market. This law does not solve the problem, this law only spreads the problem to others who are not affected, and these are those who are possibly in a desire and opportunity to take credit and buy a new apartment because this way will not be possible or will be more expensive for them because of the rise in interest price because of the fact that banks will protect themselves from risk. And that's unfortunately the consequence of the law. If the law was prepared, if the law looked at all the consequences that would arise, they would have no such problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2355	Thank you. Third replica, distinguished colleague Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2356	Dear colleague Maras, you had an objection to the presence of our representatives at the session, here is Mr Grmoja, so I will now refer to him as one of the representatives who, in these few days of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, was more present in the new term than most of your representatives in these two mandates that have passed. Here I wonder where your president of the Club of Representatives has probably forgotten where the Croatian Parliament building is. And as for your presentation, you have best shown how much you want to improve this law by the very fact that you, unlike your colleagues, said yesterday that this bill should be adopted in an emergency procedure. So that's why you think he's good enough. Or don't you want to improve it? I'll just remind you again that in the last term when you were representatives of the government and when you managed the justice department three times you changed this law and failed to help people. Here's a chance for you to go through a public debate that follows with your constructive proposals that you obviously have to advance this law. We'll be happy to accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2357	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2358	First, Mr. Kristic, in his previous term, I was not in power but was MOST. So when we were us. '90s. I didn't know anyone else when you were. So once in power, I'm gonna call myself in. Well, I don't know if you heard yesterday in your club's reply or Mr. Hrelje's discussion that you've changed the law in 2015 and your Minister of Sprlje, pardon 2016, and your Minister of Sprlje has changed it so nothing of it has changed. ... I'll fix it if the MOST knowers let me do it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If the MOST knowers won't let me do it, then I can't fix it. So, here I am appealing to the high moral advocates of the Most to support my changes and then I will fix it. Here's the deal. And on the other hand, you didn't listen to me very carefully yesterday. I said this law should go, this law but not this kind of content in the law, the executive law should go for urgency in two readings to be adopted as soon as possible to help people. But a law like this would be better if it never went the way you wrote it. So you have to listen when someone's talking to you to figure out what he's trying to say. Because the sufflage... And Mr. Grmoya would be fine if he were here when he suggested something. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It doesn't matter how many people are in the assembly if you're not when they need you. So someone can be a doctor and save people every day and then just when you need him, he's gone. Mr. Grmoya, we needed you now, and you weren't here. That's why I pointed it out, that you hear these suggestions, that the law in the second reading is better. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2359	Thank you, too. Next, he came forward with a replica of a distinguished colleague of Sinish Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues here, I would like to support a speech from my colleagues, Maras, and I would like to repeat some things since yesterday, especially in the segment when it comes to INA and the refinery in Sisak. We have 600 potential executions in Sisak. And that's the new 600 families that enter these in 2017. EUR 3,5 million, and in 2018 5.1 million kunas that are absolutely insufficient already in purely simple mathematics when speaking the number of average incomes times the number of people over the year that it takes to do this. The proposal from my colleague Maras is much more concrete and better, easier to implement in terms of taking over apartments from the government and I would absolutely support it. I would once again point out the problem of discrimination between the socially endangered who have not been completed in relation to the socially endangered who have been executed. So the socially endangered who are not executed have the right to an apartment that cannot be realised because these apartments do not exist, and those who are completed unless there are no apartments have the right to cash compensation. This is how people are discriminated against, and I believe that the State's Attorney's Office will have much to do with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2361	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2362	Thank you very much. Mr. Varga is absolutely a frightening statement by Mr. Dobrovic's Energy Minister that it is necessary to close the refinery in Sisak which then potentially creates new 600 people without a job that has credits, which will lose their incomes, which will not be taken care of and which will tomorrow become subject to this law, unfortunately still not enough good, and these proposals do not suggest that they will be much better, and because of whether those days of ignorance, inconsistencies, intimate desires to shut down refineries in Croatia or peek at MOL, I do not believe. I don't believe in conspiracy with MOL MOST, but Mr. Dobrovic's intimate wish certainly exists. Believe me, he wants the refineries shut down in the Republic of Croatia, so I'm worried about why such a person became a minister of energy. Environmental protection, yes, but no energy. And that's for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2363	Comrade Maras, I beg you now I am very tolerated but I am now asking you not to harm the Rules of Procedure because you are aware that you are doing so now. The topic is Executive Law, the topic is not Minister Dobrović and I really ask you to continue to discuss the subject that it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2364	But that's exactly what I was talking about, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2365	No, I let you go, you had a little bit of a parabolic, so I thought you'd be back on the subject, but now you're going completely in this direction, so I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2366	The city of Sisak is about 600 people and their families who will start thinking about the Executive Law tomorrow because of their loss of income. Is that not enough reason for me to talk here in front of the Croatian public about not finding Minister Dobrović? It's absolutely fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2367	Yeah, but not his intimate thoughts. You don't even know maybe he has some topics he's fascinated by, and you don't know much about it. I'm asking you to talk about executive law.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2368	I felt honesty in his statement yesterday morning, and dishonesty in that afternoon. And that's a concern I don't share. I'm called the citizens of Sisak and they're telling me about it, you have to say it, and you can't let the refinery in Sisak close. And we're not gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2369	Thank you very much. And I call once again on the MPs to stick to the subject because this really was a breach of the Rules of Procedure so I agree with the colleagues who raised the board, so you are in accordance with Article 239. The Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. Dear colleague Davor Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2370	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, you said that you had the impression that this bill would only give one party a positive pass and that banks in this case would pass positively while the perpetrators would remain in trouble. We share a similar opinion between the HSS and myself personally, and I think this law should not be passed fire-fighting but through a public debate with all interested groups. And here I am not a lawyer, we have consulted our legal profession, our expert council, which in contact with the courts said in Article 1 by abolishing decisions by appeal from first-degrees to second-degree courts will lead to further delays because we already have court practice that individual cases last for two, three, five years and are practically not in line with the courts and we will burden the second-degree work of the judicial authorities, and the perpetrator remains interest and difficulties in repaying the loan. Also in part of Article 18 where it is mentioned about the accommodation of a completed citizen in a residential unit to 18 months and this transfer to a social care centre and there is an unspecified location where social care centres will place them. Whether it is located in the local competent centre for social care or it can be part of the entire Republic of Croatia which will continue to create legal uncertainty and increase costs and executioners, as well as the Republic of Croatia itself. Unfortunately, banks will also find it difficult to charge especially in Slavonia and Baranja and other underdeveloped areas where you can buy real estate for five to ten thousand euros with a complete estate today. Why? Because people don't have jobs. And I therefore agree with you that we must keep our jobs in Croatia and also the refinery. If a refinery needs to be closed, then let us help shut down the Rafineria in the Bosnian ship so as not to poison the citizens of Slavonski Brod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2371	Thank you, too. The answer to the replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2372	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vlaovic, you can see how difficult it is when there are many problems when they bond with each other, not to mention them in their debate. I respect the chairman who warned me, but everyone must be aware in Croatia that inaction or actions on one issue is causing many of the problems that unfortunately arise when someone proposes the law. So you yourself said that this law will help the banks, I agree with you, just as we have heard several times in the debate today that the MPs in this House agree with the adoption of this law,... they think it's good. I, according to these discussions that I have heard today, hear a lot of regrets and objections and concerns, and I am convinced that, apart from HDZ and MOST, no one will vote for this law in the way he is now proposed. So it's absolutely now that forcing something that doesn't make sense, absolutely this law is something that only contributes to the creation of an impression as if something was done, and basically nothing is done and nothing is proposed. I hope that the government will be more concrete because obviously from the Club of Representatives of MOST here we haven't been very helpful for the last week, and on the other hand I'd like to see these proposals that we've said here today, and we're going to be here specifically and I'm going to write the amendments myself, and I'm going to ask that some things fit in because I think there's a much better quality solution than the ones that are here today. You won't find maybe in some small places any apartment for rent at all. What's going to happen to these people? Then why are you even driving them out of the house? Which is why I don't introduce the concept of social housing and that the state is taking over this apartment that people can't possibly pay off. It's a much simpler and cheaper solution for the state, not to mention all the problems that arise for that family, which is unfortunately in a position to be decommissioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2373	Thank you. And the last replica, dear colleague Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2374	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, therefore I fully agree with you, social issues, social measures should be proposed to social laws. Contracts are something that opens jobs, jobs and jobs, and economic growth will certainly put us in a position not to discuss this issue in this way. Because what young people need, they need credit on favourable interest and they need jobs they want to work on. However, my main replica is going in that direction, I hope I won't get a warning too, you're surprised now that the Minister of Environment and Energy has taken his own word or disagreed with his opinion. But it's not his fault, he's guilty of forming a government because this is something we can expect when we tell the fox to feed our chickens. Maybe this comparison isn't the best, or let's tell the vegetarian to make us a nice meat loaf. So the Minister of Environment and Energy must be contradictory to himself because these two things simply cannot go together.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2375	Thank you very much, counsel. But I'd also like to ask you to stick to the subject. Replication response. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. And look, it's very difficult in these situations, one sentence, is the fact, leaving the topic, but if in the second sentence, the MP comes back on the subject, then it's very difficult to give me a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I can appeal to be...... Yeah, yeah, yeah, they're serially connected, I agree, but let's let the argument go because here's counterpart Maras now also has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2376	Mr. Vice President, please don't support this guy's qualifications, serially linked. So she's the only one for herself, saying what she thinks, there's no serial or typical connection. That way, unwittingly, you have now offended a colleague of Jagar and me. So, fellow Panenic, I understand he's nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2377	You didn't tell me what article it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2378	232 to 238 more have been touched. ... There's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm asking you, Mr. Vice President, that qualifications and epithets of counsel are not allowed to be given. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2379	All right. I now invite you to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2380	Thank you very much. After these series of replicas, I must say that I am much easier, especially after yours, because everyone has agreed more or less with me. The HDZ hasn't heard from anyone, obviously they don't mind either. Only colleagues from the Most are excited and react and sometimes in an inappropriate manner, as Mr Panenic has now said. But it's not my fault that the laws they propose are unprepared, the consequences that will be bad, what their ministers say in the way they speak, what confuses and alarms the public and in fact they create problems both with these laws and with the statements of their ministers. That's not my problem. I solve my problem here by saying what bothers me and I have a right to do so and I will say it. I will also talk about the Minister of Energy who does not want the production of hydrocarbons in Croatia, I will talk about the bad law of the Executive, I will talk about everything that is not the representatives of MOST or the Club of Representatives of the World of Cows that they cannot be objected to. Don't put yourself in that position. Anyone here in this House can object and tell what they think. Don't think you're protected from criticism. You are not the moral verticals of this society, and you are not the only ones invited to lead the Republic of Croatia morally. If it were such a fate, we would be very bad, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2381	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, first colleague Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2382	Well, here I'm asking you, since you've already given your colleagues a warning to take away his word since this is the 6th time he's hurt the Rules of Procedure, and in none of his presentations he hasn't held on to the subject. In particular, he did not touch the Executive Law at all in the last exhibition, but he constantly mentions Minister Dobrović and the refinery. I invite you, have a nice, have five minutes before the session each, ask for a break and talk about the subject, no problem at all. You have legitimate ways, you use them, but don't use law debates to talk about topics that have nothing to do with these laws. Obviously, then you have no connection or constructive proposals on this law, make your proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2383	Thank you very much. I can repeat once again, I gave my colleague Maras a warning when he hurt the Rules of Procedure, and he keeps going along the edge of his injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I'm still not gonna give him a warning to take away his word so I can appeal once more to stick to the subject. And we're moving on with the debate. The next person to answer the word is distinguished colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2384	Thank you, Vice President. Here's another MOST guarantee, by the way this law is prepared, in which form it comes here, how much effort has been put into it, it should not be called executive but superficial. My colleague, Peja Grbin, said this morning on behalf of the club, was scalpeled and tweezered with two fingers, surgically analyzed this bill. Therefore, there's no point in repeating that of his... Analysis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From a legal point of view, from a logical point of view, she was impeccable. There's a problem. No one's denying it. You can see differently, though... trouble. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I listened to a colleague of Glasnovic yesterday who claims that there was a problem that we had not yet come out of communism. So he blames Communism, blames communism for being 30,000 blocked, which is a million Croats on top, which is 1.4 works and 1 is a pensioner. There is no fellow Glasnovic now, and I am sorry to remind him that there was no such thing in communism. There were neither 30,000 blocked nor a million Croats under wraps. And there were four of them working and one of them was a pensioner. Lives the wall of a guilty bank, greedy banks. I think they're kind of missing out on the subject. We set ourselves up for the market economy, banks work with profits, banks borrow money, they want their money back, if the money can't come back, then they activate the mortgages. Banks aren't caritative institutions, and we can't ask them to do that. The culprit is the poor society as we have created and created by a system of privatisation and conversion, and by stealing public enterprises, and finally by the will of the electoral body who re-elected them in the hope that they would be improved. Some solutions have been offered. Col. Maras says that these apartments should be taken as state dwellings and turned into social dwellings, but his proposal does not come up with any comment from MOST, but since there are people who are harder to connect things, they need to understand that some things are connected, so when fellow Maras rightly warns, with the right to find themselves on the road by closing the refinery in Sisak 600 workers and that he will fall under one part of them and that therefore he will be guilty and Minister Dobrović if that happens, then his word is taken away from him yesterday and today you are asked by the vice president to take away his word again, and I guess you will take away all of his representation rights next time. Because people simply don't realize that losing 600 jobs in Sisak will lead to a problem of performance. And that would be the fault if Minister Dobrović came to that. And you, now, lift up your corrections, injure the Rules of Procedure all you want, Minister Dobrović. Maras warned you well. A fellow Bosniak suggests introducing one rule that there is no enforcement over the only real estate. Well, if there's no execution, then that property can't even be a loan guarantee. Then the young people won't come, they'll make it to the loan. He says Bosnjakovic unless the debtor, unless the one who raises the credit to the public notary, writes that he agrees to have the performance carried out over it. Well, that's the current situation. He knows as soon as he takes the loan that if he can't get it back he'll be over that property. What's new about that? Only to verify that with a public notary. But this loan must also be verified by a public notary. Well, the public notary will tell him that, look, man, if you can't get it back, then it'll be over that property, so he has to warn him about the consequences of what he's signing. This law helps one part of the citizens, helps and that's good. At least help someone because it would be a bad attitude to say if we can't help everyone she can't help anyone. That would be a bad attitude. It's good to help anyone, but why, what's going on with those who have already been decommissioned, who are now on the road? This law won't help them. What about the homeless? Here's a colleague, Maras, says that these apartments turn into social housing, but why doesn't the state make a plan to build social housing for the homeless, not just for those who lose their apartment because they can't repay loans, but also lose for a variety of reasons. If we want to be the state's socialist, suggest something like that. It would be a systematic solution, not sharing people with such a superficial ad hoc, at once declaring it a big guarantee. That's why I suggest we accept, that you accept what Peja Grbin suggested on behalf of the club. We give this proposal to your government, we send it there, so the conclusion is that all proposals and opinions are sent to the government to make a final bill, and that the government listens to all these well-intentioned remarks, well-intentioned and malicious, anyway, and that it tries to find a better and more solid solution than what you're offering us here. I think it would be a good constructive conclusion that would also help the proposings to get out of this relatively unpleasant situation but more importantly help the citizens. And some other conclusion may say that Minister Dobrović is in charge of trying to stop the cancellation of the Sisak refinery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2385	The first replica of the esteemed colleague Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2386	Thank you, Mr. President. I, Mr. Stazic, must support both you and Mr. Maras when you remembered General Glasnović who said it was all Communism and not guilty of everything, 99% is the one and 1% is not guilty, it is questionable. And he was also right about Mr. Maras when he said who would drive them out of those apartments after 18 months that we would put inside to protect them. And that's for sure, so we have in our country the same case that there's a lot of those who haven't taken any credit, who haven't been in debt to anyone but someone has come and forced them out of their apartments and there's no Living Wall, no one in this country to fight for their rights and to bring them back to their homes that they've been violently expelled from, like Mr. Mile Horvatt. Remembering some of your experiences in this House spoke. So I would ask if someone who will ever find themselves in this Croatian society who will return their property to the centre of Zagreb to the legal owners of the family houses and delegate those who have wrongly, violently emigrated to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2387	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2388	I didn't expect to fully agree with you, but here I have to fully go from the first word to the last word. And I stand up to at least get into social housing if there is no other way to get those who are unjustly expelled from them. Here was a representative of the SDSS club yesterday as many Serbs were expelled from their apartments in Zagreb in the 1990s. They came and march out, this is mine now, busy. They've never been returned. How many Croats were expelled in the Homeland War. So came the savages, let's go outside. It's an injustice that lasts. And in my speech, I stood up for it here. So let's solve it systematically as a state, let's make a fund of apartments by the POS system like Cacic built them if we can't do otherwise and correct that injustice. Because what does it mean these 18 months? And after 18 months, what are we going to do about them from these state dwellings? Because the law doesn't say anything about what happens after 18 months. Nothing, the cops will come back again and force them out because we won't have any legal basis for them to stay inside because MOST God has prepared such a legal proposal. And when we disagree with him, then we share reminders, then we break the Rules of Procedure, then we take away our word. It is now the new fashion of this parliamentary majority. I agree with you, Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2389	So you see that I have not given you any warning, nor taken away your word, even though you might want it, but I will not. Dear colleague Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2390	Thank you. My friend Stazic, you say the banks aren't guilty. Yes, they can agree that not only banks are guilty, but banks are largely guilty of impoverishing Croatian citizens because at this point, banks owe five billion overpaid interest to Croatian citizens, and therefore my proposal I made yesterday to prevent the execution of any property in every loan that is burdened with illegal contractual provisions, and such loans have over a hundred thousand. One way to help debtors stay out of trouble, and the problem can be found because they are poored precisely by this illegal rise in interest rates. I just got from Zadar's notice that's exclusive, the first power of judgment has been passed which returns to the debtor's overpaid interest. So far, there have been no judgments since the bank's appeal. The powerful verdict reached in Zadar before that was made because the bank did not complain. However, I have just received information that the first judicial verdict was passed after the bank's appeal. So, we can expect the tsunamis of such judgments, and that is a good sign that even in this House, it is possible to pass a law that could give any debtors whose bank illegally changed interest rates could be returned to overpaid interest. Because now we have a court case, a final verdict on which we can even legally solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2391	Thank you, too. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2392	The Pacta Sund Servanda contracts must be respected. If someone signed a contract with the bank, that contract must be respected. If he included a variable interest rate, then he knew that interest rate could go up. If, however, the bank did anything, not just any bank did something illegal and damaged someone else, so of course it must compensate him for the damage. If it is necessary to support it with another new legislative proposal, I agree with it and I call on MOST to include it, but in such a way that it goes through the government or at least to involve you, not to do it alone in the Neretva Valley.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2393	Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic, so the banks are responsible. She is, as we just heard from her colleague Alexic, acting illegally. So, they're negotiating illegal interest, they owe billions. However, they also act unethically and violently among other things. As we have seen in recent months, they are prone to threats, meaning that Croatia will sue in some international courts, blackmails, that it will no longer give credit, that it will leave Croatia. So, banks are set to actually be above the Croatian government, and as far as I can see, they can also staff in the Croatian government because here is the Deputy Prime Minister from the banking sector, from one bank administration to the government without any electoral legitimacy. It is also an unquestionable responsibility of the CNB, which is therefore neither Croatian nor national, and the question of how much is the bank. I'd like to once find out the exact information in which she's even owned, where the bank governor receives some 50,000 kunas pay more than the president of the state, and issue warnings like he's a meteorologist, so here's the citizens shouldn't do this, they shouldn't do that while he skis. And he should actually act, because it's not the duty of the citizens to know that loans in Swiss francs have destroyed Australian farmers in the 1980s, that it's actually an old scam, a trick that's long been exposed. The Croatian National Bank had to take timely steps against loans in Swiss francs, did not take them and is partly responsible for this crisis in the economy and society that has been evident for the past 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2395	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2396	Well, look, I don't think it's wise or smart or justifiably enough to devalue the banking sector. You say the banks didn't seem ethical. Well, the banks aren't here to act morally. Banks work with money that's their basic task. They borrow money and collect interest. We have a law-protected interest rate, interest can't be green, it can't be too big. If it's necessary to reduce it, we change that law if anyone thinks. They're threatening the banks to leave. So let's get them out of here. They won't go anywhere as long as they make money here. If they started losing, they'd be gone, of course. And there'd be others who'd make money. Therefore, some of their threats should not be taken seriously but I don’t think they should be Satanized. The relationship between the citizen and the bank is defined by some kind of contract. It is certainly better for citizens to go to the bank than to be in debt to the greeners because it has ruined many too. So these guys put up interest rates that were a hundred times bigger than bank interest. The relationship with the bank is one orderly relationship, and we need if there's anything else to fix there, so let's fix it by law if you have any reasonable and smart suggestions to fix it. And do citizens have to behave responsibly? Even citizens should be called to responsible behavior. Well, I can't raise a 500 million-euro loan and I can't repay it, I can't. And then when I can't come back, when I'm detached, then I call Sincic to save me. That's not how it works. Citizens must also be responsible. So if the governor calls for that responsibility to the citizen, then I think he's right, then I totally agree with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2397	Thank you very much. Fourth replica, distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2398	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Stazic, you have repeated your position several times, and that is the view of your club that the law should be prepared by the government. I'd ask what the government means? The laws are not taken safe and written by the Prime Minister but by the laws of preparation of the Resort Ministry, if you forgot the Resort Ministry was then the Ministry of Justice that prepared it and it is clear and the promoter stated that it was prepared in the ministry for all known problems did not enter into the debate. It's the same minister now. So his proposal is current today, and he's as presentable as that. So I don't see what we'd get since you're rushing all the time that here and on your part it's said you should go into emergency procedures at the end of a law like this, and you would now return it to the government once again. So let's play ball with the law itself. What I'd like to say is that you've been deliberately defending actually the fluids of communism, but you've forgotten maybe that at that time you couldn't have been completed because you couldn't finally own any real estate, someone was limiting you, there was no recognition of private property. There were banks at the time but how to take credit, how to get squeezed when there was such a system where they didn't admit at all that you had private property. I was younger then, too, child, but I remember well that we had to stand in line for the most basic provisions of life, for sugar and the like. I mean, it's worse than the tip, you can't compare it at all. It's hard for me to even try to hold back, but I just can't help but tell you your comparison about getting people out of the apartment is really inappropriate. That you were in my place, and unfortunately they didn't just drive anyone away, but they took his life. So he was expelled from one of his properties, and his only life was taken from him. So comparing what you just compared is really inappropriate. So you can't have that in this context at all. But apparently, your intention is here, too, only when you're going back and on my initiative yesterday that only the INA is in your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2399	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2400	First, why the government? Well, because the government has some instruments that Parliamentarians unfortunately don't have. In the government and the ministry there are assistants, there is a government's Office of Law, there are bodies that are more qualified than parliamentary deputies to draft laws. It would be good if the Parliament had such bodies and such professional services. But with us Parliamentarians, they don't even have an office, they don't have an office. They write their bill proposals and their debates on their knees. That's the situation. That's why the government. If you're saying that this law is prepared in government, then we have to ask ourselves what kind of assistants they were, are they still, who hired them there and with what qualifications? Because this, this is something an expert can't do. He must be ashamed if he does or loses his job. Because writing the law is a little more serious than you think. That's why the government. As for what I'm saying here in the House, so I can repeat to you what Maras said to someone, you won't tell me what I'm going to say here in the House and what comparisons I'm going to do. I'm sorry, I don't answer to you. You may have your opinions on anything, and I will not dispute your right to have an opinion. I think that the dejection of people no matter what nationality they were before the war and in the war and something shameless. Taking someone's life is a crime. Well, you don't think I'm the one who's justifying someone who took someone's life, that crime. If you tried to put that in my mouth. For all those who are not punished, I invite this government as well as any other I have called to find them and to judge them. For this must not remain unpunished in any society that wants to be righteous.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2401	Thank you very much. Here's how we have four more lines, and now we're going to do one last one, and that's our esteemed colleague, Nicole Grmoy, and after that, it's a break. The first one after the break will be a distinguished colleague of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2402	Your Honor, Vice President. Here I have given up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure because I see it makes no sense, so colleagues continue to break the Rules of Procedure, so I will use the replica. Here she wanted to impose the thesis that MOST wants to shut down the Sisak refinery, and if we're already discussing it so we're off topic, then I'm going to be answering off topic. So SDP colleagues are responsible together with all former governments because MOL behaves as it treats Croatia. The SDP government means your government sold the White Nights for 74 million dollars, and since 2002, when the White Nights were sold they had a profit of $5 billion. You're responsible for this, not the Most. So what's happening now with INA is the responsibility of the former governments, not the Most, and the ministers of the Most. Here is former Minister Panenic and Minister Dobrovic will do anything not to allow MOL to shut down the Sisak refinery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2403	First we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished colleague of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Grmoya broke Article 232. There's no need to specifically explain since he himself admitted that he would do it, so I'm asking you to remind me. I didn't do it or the chairman established it. But you yourself said with intent you entered to violate the Rules of Procedure and I only ask the President to establish it, and let Mr. Dobrović agree with himself before you explain to us what he thinks.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2405	Here's what I'm not going to say now because I didn't tell you at first, just a little bit, I won't. I didn't give you a warning at first, either, but only after you repeatedly violated the Rules of Procedure, so I gave you a warning. If he does it again, I will give him a reminder as well as my colleague Stazic, for moments, I have also set foot in areas beyond the topic. But we are in Parliament and I think we have to allow sometimes a debate that is somewhere on the edge of what is allowed and I don't think we should make a problem out of it. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2406	Well, first of all, I am infinitely glad that my colleague Grumoja finally understood what Parliament is and that he can speak on the edges, on the margins of the main topic, because this is why Parliament exists. I'm sorry that he had such a hard time getting to know him that he had to leave the assembly without waiting for an answer to his own replica, he also left as a promoter. Since a man's gone out of fear of answering his line, I'm a gentleman of that answer I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2407	Thank you all. We'll continue at three o'clock. It's 13:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.02 HOURS]] Our basis is the presentation of fellow MP Stazic. The next replica is a esteemed colleague of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2409	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President. In his discussion, Stazić mentioned something that I think is the taste of the whole issue of this law which de facto does not solve the problem but prolongs it and there is a great possibility that it is later intensified that people after 18 months who will again have no solution will be in an even bigger problem than before, and that is that we do not have a systematic and permanent solution. It is strange that a country like Croatia does not have a model of social building, or social housing, and that we are not able to produce or build or allow for the socially vulnerable citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be hundreds or two hundred or three hundred apartments, and then instead of these rents de facto, that money that colleagues from the Most predicted to spend on annual rentals of apartments to invest in the construction of these social apartments and allow people to have a permanent solution, or until they find a job, until they are allowed to pay rent or buy a new apartment with their work and income. I think that's the biggest drawback. So we're going through something, we're not solving anything, and eventually the problems are going to get bigger and bigger every day. Of course, people need to be able to solve their problems primarily through their work and profit and then think about how you will help someone for 18 months because they are really fire measures. And once again I protest here in front of the Croatian Parliament even though it is three hours, the second session of the debate has just begun, yet none of the legislators have. It is, in my opinion, the demeaning of our parliamentary representatives, the Croatian Assembly of the club MOST, none of the four legislators on behalf of the Most here are present to discuss with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2410	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2411	Well, colleague Maras, I have nothing for you to answer for this first part of the replica, you're absolutely right. But I picked up a reply plate for the replica just because, once again, I should repeat and establish. There are no representatives of Most here in front of the Croatian public. They are the ones who would punish MPs with 500 kuna for not coming to the Parliament. I suggest we start tomorrow with their punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2412	Well, then, there'd be a lot of MPs and MPs being punished and we'd still wait a little longer with that measure. The next replica is distinguished colleague Marin Škibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2413	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. By listening to Mr. Stazic's presentation, I heard a few nonsensees. One of these nonsense is that he turned the debate on the executive law into an ideological debate. That's the first thing. And the other nonsense is that he as a representative of the social democracy, at least that's what the party's name is, is that he stepped into the defense of banks instead of defending people. I think he's looking at the problem he's looking at, looking more through that micro-raise that people are blaming themselves for taking credit. However, the problem is greater in nature and it covers the macro aspect and I think Mr. Stazic should see the problem. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2414	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2415	You also have banks operating in societies where there are social-democrat governments. If you didn't know, ask around. Therefore, the functioning of banks with social democracy does not stand but does not stand in any way. So much for nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2416	Okay. And the last replica is Martha Luc-Polanc's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2417	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. I must say that I fully agree with the debate of Stazic, and as he wishes to state, i.e. I fully agree with his finding that the amendments to the Executive Law have now created a superficial law. Because executive law is procedural law. It's a law that's meant to collect claims. So we can't put a social component into it that way so that it loses its meaning. Therefore, in any amendment to the Implementing Act and the enforcement procedures, you know in the court there are very numerous proceedings and they are significantly stifling the work of the court so that every amendment to the Implementing Law should go not only in order to take care of the perpetrators and the executives, but also in order to be effective in the proceedings in order to finally discharge the courts. So these social components that are introduced and the activities of the social care centre that will significantly complicate procedures are unnecessary, they need to be regulated by other legal regulations and the implementing law is primarily the process of collecting claims that should be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2418	There's no response to the replica, so we move on to the next individual debate. It is a representative of Romana Jerkovic who also does not have a right to debate. After a colleague, Jerkovic, the following came from a respected representative, Rezimir Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2419	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not saying it's really worth talking to when there's no proposing. But at the end of the line, we've been having a debate about this law for almost two days, or amendments to this law, so I'm just going to repeat some of the details of what I think is important to say. How much of this will the Proposer take into account now is their business. When we have 330,000 blocked citizens and 32,000 private legal persons in the country, then it really presents the problem not only of those individuals, individuals but also of economics, both legal and human, and I would dare say the problem of national security. We've had about 352 amended provisions since the adoption of the original law, as far as I've managed to implement it. These amendments and additions to the Implementing Law have not led to a smaller number of citizens in the blockade. I have a historical table before me that I think the party or the association don't know the blocked "Unblock Croatia" from 2010 to 2016. This is the move in 12 months 2010 we had 25,606 citizens in the blockade at the end of 2011. 219 421 citizens in the blockade at the end of 2012. 212 317 I also have the information that the debt amounted to 13 billion kuna, in 2013 299,795 citizens' debt in the blockade amounted to 23 billion 82 million, at the end of 2014 322 500 citizens amounted to 31 billion 06 million kuna, in order to pay nearly 40 billion kuna in 2016 and of 328 788 citizens. I appreciate that in debt, there are loans and those who manipulated money, who bought yachts and planes, and I don't know what, but I think it's a very small number. And you wouldn't raise that whole problem to the level of such debtors. However, how can we resolve this debt? I don't believe that we can solve these amendments and additions to the law, and I don't believe that by introducing this social element into the Implementing Law, what my colleague said through the replicas would only cause new discrimination and to the detriment of the most vulnerable social categories. The danger was also warned by fellow representatives of municipalities and cities from that social category of housing, housing, etc. How can you get rid of that? Well, you know, in principle, we can say by economic war, employment, regular payouts, regular severance payments, disbursements from the bankruptcy of particularly workers who have lost their jobs and new employment. In particular, Alexic, a number of good proposals have been highlighted in the debate, especially the proposal concerning the sale of property at the bank's mortgage, without questioning the bank's position as a believer. We have to be very careful here, we can't nationalize the banks, and we can't question their claims. But what are the banks doing? Mr. Aleksic suggested that when making the law in the second reading take into account the proposal that the debtor himself does not go under, not above 80% of the value. However, banks have a different procedure. I have here a particular case that one entrepreneur reported to me and said the following, I raised 350 thousand euros in credit, I mortgaged on my own real estate, which was estimated by a court expert and from the bank's witches to 1 million and 500 thousand euros. He started paying off parts of the debt, got stuck in difficulty, and then the bank re-sends its appraisal expert and estimates the property at 870,000 euros. There's a possible bank malfeasance. What's the real estate assessment changing? If I've concluded a deal with the bank on the x amount, and the bank accepts that my property is worth 5 times that. Why does a bank change the value of real estate when it goes to work? It's malfeasance, it's actually a robbery. If Mr. Alexic's proposal were accepted by the promoter, then I think a debtor like this could sell his real estate and, say, sell it at half price, settle his debt to the bank, and he'll still have some money left. This is how it blocks him completely all the means. And in a specific case, a 70-year-old man, because all his accounts were blocked, remained on a minimum pension of 2200 kuna and with nothing. What I would recommend to the promoters is to make it short for me not to repeat the debate that is next. MOST has, you have the possibility as a proposer to accept all the proposals, remarks from this debate here, and you have the possibility in accordance with Rule 188 of the Rules of Procedure. And I think that, in that way, not only would the Government as a proposer with amongst the resolutions, with resources at its disposal have and take into account that part of the debate in this assembly concerning the other set of laws relating to the Executive Law. That way we could come up with a quality solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2420	Thank you, too. We have three replicas to present our esteemed colleague, Rechimer Varda. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2421	Dear colleague Varda, here's what's to be said by that virtual hit that message was sent. We are in a situation where you invite people that debt cannot be disputed and that it is undoubtedly due back. However, you know for a fact that our own country whose representative we are in the Assembly is unable to repay its debts, not just debts. There's no money for current expenses either. What is the fate of a state that cannot repay its loans? It is a privatisation in the HDZ way that we have already had the opportunity to see and actually further destroy our country and for this reason I think that we should understand as a representative that the debt is immoral, amoral, that the process of creating money is criminal and that our citizens are victims of conspiracy in the same way as the state itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2422	Replication response, colleague Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2423	Comrade Pernar, what can I say to you? Your debate on the subject is always the same. You've already got the answer. You volunteer to enter into a debt-religious relationship, you volunteer to do so. The truth God, you lose your job, you get paid, it's all right, but it's long, it's long. You can't solve it. You can solve it by social laws or eventually help the state, but you can't solve it by law. The executive law what my club president said was an axe. Watch what you get into, watch what you sign and watch out for what's in the fine print. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2424	Second replica, esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2425	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague of Varda you mentioned among other real estate estimates. It's just a big problem if we're talking about the auction itself, the real estate sale itself. So these are usually long-term loans. People at the time when the real estate market was so high, when real estate was more valuable they had one estimate. That's why they took the loan, then there was a breakdown. It dropped the value of real estate and now they're out of a job, for a number of reasons I can't repay the loan so I don't now list all the reasons I've witnessed and come to an auction and come back to the real estate assessment. But what's happening now? Now it's a second assessment. Meanwhile, the market has fallen and then we have those famous three auctions already according to which law is that half, a third, etc. And it's not a rare case that the entire estate, the entire grandfatherhood, is lost at auction and that the real estate is sold for change that isn't enough or that the remaining debt is charged. So you lose all the property and all the money you've paid for years, you've paid for nothing. It should be the main intensities of this law to disable and not only this law but the laws that are related. We can talk about the bankruptcy law, the billing of money, the personal bankruptcy of consumers, etc. So in this direction these changes should go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2426	Thank you, too. And the last replica, dear colleague Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2427	Thank you, fellow Vard, for your presentation. I'm, of course, out of the Franak Association, everybody knows that. The Franak Association is a legalist, the Franak Association thinks the debts must be paid back. The problem is excessive debt, and excessive debt is the debt caused by illegal business primarily by Croatian banks. And in the spirit of what you said to accept my proposals, we also know that this is going to be a public debate, so there will probably be a lot more suggestions. And I got oral messages from both MOST and HDZ yesterday that they will accept us, i.e. me and my colleagues who are experts in legal and economic spheres, to try to work this proposal together in the final proposal, so I expect that this will happen and that, with a quality public debate, the amendments and additions of the Implementing Law will be far more quality than this proposal and that they will really improve the situation with potential perpetrators. First of all, it is important to prohibit and prevent the execution of any property that is burdened with any illegal contractual relationship. Here's what I said today was the first judgment in Zadar, so it's open the way for all the needy debtors to return their overpaid interest, and I hope the state will do something about it. First of all, it is necessary to resolve the problem of limitations after the collective court process, as the problem of the statute of limitations is not solved. It's not known if the statute of limitations has been going back five years, or if the statute of limitations doesn't exist at all. We're gonna have to deal with it through this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2428	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2429	Comrade Alexic, I think we have fully agreed, but I still think it would be good to apply Article 188. Rules of Procedure. He also envisions a public debate of interested entities, but I think the government has better opportunities with its ministries to prepare a quality bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2430	Thank you. We've exhausted the replicas. We're going to the next individual debate, and that's distinguished colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2431	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, yes, there has now been debated whether debts are legal or not, whether they should be paid or not. In any case, debts should be paid, it's not disputed. But let's just say it's questionable how the debt came up and the Living Wall actually has a detailed program that we'll have a chance to discuss believe for the next four years. What I want to talk about here right now, based on what we said yesterday, is you, one problem is in the middleman's debt collection. So one of the intermediaries in debt is, for example, FINA, then these are public notebooks, lawyers who therefore often cost their own process, costs to pay more than the principal of the debt. And it happens, therefore, that for one kuna, three kunas of expenses or even twenty kunas or more. Let's say one example. FINA for one page of the debt print, charges 37 kuna. Otherwise, in a photocopier, one page costs 16 limes, and they charge them as if they were handwritten by a man with a beautiful writing means amazing 37 kuna. With many debtors actually having to print 10 to 15 pages. And the question arises if his account was blocked from where he got the money to pay for it, so that's all printing at such a price. Also, let's say FINA charges 175 kuna for carrying out the errand but it's not done by man, it's done by the system. So the execution of the execution is recorded in the system and a man doesn't have to do anything at all, this exercise can be done theoretically at 3 o'clock in the night with automation but it charges 175 kuna. And now if a man doesn't have to pay his debt at once, so every month it's going to be done for him for, say, 12 months, they're going to take $1,2100 a year for nothing, for no job. I don't know if you know it in Slovenia, the request for an enforcement is submitted by electronic means by the person himself, or by the legal person to whom someone is obliged to apply. The request costs about 3 euros. Only in the event that the debtor contests a credible correction is it then going to the end but again through the court. So, not through any public notary or any other institution. That's a big problem. This is what makes the claim system, among other things, more deeply unfair. That these executions and this kind of executive law are unfair witnesses between the other and the painful scene that we see on the dissidents. I don't know if you ever turned on the Live Wall program so you looked at at least one, scenes with at least one, and people get sick without the delicacies from the top. So, older people, say, have serious psychological problems because of their performance. I know many people personally who do not have a peaceful dream, who are on many pharmaceutical treatments or pharmacology and some are very, very seriously ill. Here's the case of Ignac Posavac, for example, from Ivanovac, he got a tumor due to the execution, and now that he's got a solution to the property assessment, his wife has had a stroke. Only because of deeds which are not just and just. If you know the case of Dejan Lesar from Pribislavac as much as he suffers from his family mentally from stress because of the performance he has had for years. Meet the case of Anna Juric yesterday who wrote that she would come before the Parliament to blow up the bomb when she listened to our debate. So people are simply sick of this kind of executive law, and some have also died and committed suicide on the basis of it. So this isn't about the billing issue. No one disputes the question of billing, chief of debt and interest, but it's about this executive law literally destroying health and killing our citizens. For this reason, we must take all measures to stop this situation as soon as possible and to make our society better as soon as possible. I must also point out that this country is social and according to our Constitution as I have already spoken and cannot understand that there is not enough living space in Croatia for all inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia to have a place to live together with their families. No living creature on the globe but a man is without a home. And now we're still letting the Home Deductions be carried out. So we didn't do anything to stop these delicacies, but we're going to depose them as social housing. Croatia has plenty of space not for four million people but for ten million if needed. In Croatia, tens of thousands of apartments are empty, and every day we increase the number of homeless people. Also, the executive law does not foresee, for example, the possibility of a debt breakthrough, not dealing with it. For example, we have the case of Željko Dujanović, whose employer "Ljevak" is in debt to 156 salaries and severances for 18 years of work, and he is deprived of the house due to a debt of 39,000 kuna and is therefore owed a million and more thousand kunas and no one takes care of it. His house will be taken away, but some protected tycoon will not be charged for a single kuna of debt. I suggest introducing counselling for debtors at the expense of the state, so when FINA already has four thousand employees, then let these employees do something instead of printing pages for 37 kuna. I would also point out that 43% of those blocked in this country have a debt of less than ten thousand kuna. It is minimum amounts, however, once the debt is created, when the blockade becomes a debtor, it can no longer be unblocked for years. 93% of those blocked have been blocked for over a year, which confirms these words of mine. I also note that last year only in 2015, six thousand real estate came to an end, and that this bill provides for the provision of some maximum of 200 families, which means one very, very small percentage of people for whom it is not quite certain how it will then be realized. Finally, I would like to look back on the fact that several times here is said that the Living Wall offers criticism, not solutions, so I would like to offer those legal solutions that the Living Wall stands for, which we will certainly do during the second reading and present in certain amendments. So first of all, banning intermediaries from collecting debts, especially debt-deposit agencies, should currently be banned. prohibit the occupations from the only real estate, cancel the entire operations of illegal RBA cooperatives and reduce the costs of the operation minimally. This would be a minimum that can be made to make this Executive Law, or its amendments, finally feel concrete in the lives of each of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2432	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. First replica of my colleague Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2433	Your Honor, I unreservedly support your position when you call for social awareness. I can't talk while Mr. Pernar's on the phone, he doesn't know you're going to give me time because he's going to stop talking. Thank you. I would like to continue to say that a policy that does not express social sensitivity does not protect the weakest, does not protect the most vulnerable group of citizens in fact loses the fundamental essence of its action and I believe that we agree 100%. [[Intruder: Justified criticism.]] But I have been asked by the citizens to ask you, this time, a representative of the Living Wall, and I will ask you a few specific questions, and I will also ask you for concrete answers. First of all, when you are going to prevent the occupation, do you go on call without any checking or, first of all, inform yourself whether a person who is being delegated to a Croatian citizen or a foreign citizen and is that the only real estate person? And the second question, from a moral point of view, before you go to prevent the occupation of citizens, are you informing yourself whether a person has been convicted of crimes, has she sustained a prison sentence and has she sinned for some of the positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2434	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2435	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor. The living wall only goes on call. So we're not forcing anyone to come here to defend him from dejection, and we're trying to figure out what the property is like for a person who's looking for a defense, and we've developed a very high seriousness about it. It may have happened once, twice that the person was not honest with us, but in most cases people are really looking for help when they have no place to go anymore and they're basically victims. We strive to examine among other things the circumstances that have led to dejection. As far as your second question is concerned, we do not check whether anyone is convicted or not because there are competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, and I also note that often the person who delegates himself is not alone in the house, often lives both the wife and the mother and the children who are completely innocent, but no matter how many people live, he has the right to a home. Everyone has a right to a home. So the right to a home and the poor and the rich and the right to a home has both justice and injustice, at least the one who served the sentence. So home should not be taken away from any living creature, including animals, let alone humans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2436	Thank you very much. The second reported for the replica, distinguished counterpart Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2437	Everything the esteemed counterpart Bunjac said was in principle correct and precisely in this direction I proposed yesterday amendments to prevent the execution of the necessary residential space that is not mortgaged, to prevent the execution of the necessary living space due to a debt of less than 50,000 kuna and to prevent the execution of any property that is burdened by illegal credit obligations. Secondly, I propose to my colleagues from the Living Wall who are with me in the coalition to write their proposals in detail, and we will all, hopefully, analyze it. And I expect the MOST to accept these proposals because there's nothing wrong with them, they're justified, they'll be for the improvement of all future potential contractors. And there is no reason not to accept these suggestions. I think everyone sitting here agrees with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2438	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2439	Well, dear fellow Alexic, thank you for your replica. So we really support these words that we should work in the interest of citizens. So we will definitely submit our amendments and give our opinions. Contrary to what some are accusing us of, we didn't come here for ourselves, at least we came for some kind of pulsism. We want to help the citizens, and if the ruling majority agrees to stop throwing people out of their homes and that people protect themselves from excessive costs of doing this, we will support it anyway and there will be no dispute about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2440	And the third replica of the distinguished colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2441	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac, in your entire debate and ultimately in the conclusions, the question arises whether you are aware that one part of it would be disabled, especially in the event of a loan charge over the property even if it was the only one that would make it impossible for many people to come to credit at all. So that's the problem. I'm more inclined to make sure people don't get kicked out of their only real estate in case they're social cases, when the state defines them by certain standards. Let the state take over that property, get paid off if it's possible to find some model and let people stay as social cases, as status cases, I would say that the state defines what that person falls under that criterion. Because there could be a person in one real estate with 20 grand in it. Why would we protect her from having her rent on the market tomorrow some other real estate and living the most normal life without any further problems of her life? So you have to keep an eye on it in case you send a message like this so thousands and thousands of people can't get a loan. So young people who now want to buy an apartment, if they brought in such a provision, they couldn't get a loan. I'm in favour of protecting people. I think it's horrible for anyone in their life to get out of their apartment with their family. I'm aware of how difficult it is for people not only to be desperate and get sick and that we just need to sort it out in some way but we need to do a thing so we don't make three more problems with it. So you need to find something that will allow people who don't have the money to live in their real estate, not to get them kicked out. But on the other hand, why would someone with 20 thousand kuna get such protection? I'm not up for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2442	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2443	Mr. Maras, so I personally have to admit I don't know if I know five people in Croatia who have paid 20 thousand kuna, I don't know if there's a Parliament president that many. And the least I've heard is that one of the 20,000 kunas would be deposed. As far as I noticed during the raids, this is mainly about difficult social cases that have received less than 2 thousand kuna per household member. What you have well noted is that the state should be involved in the protection of the only real estate. We had the opportunity for young families who bought the first real estate to have tax relief, to pay interest. And it wasn't a small sum, it paid, you could pay two wars a year with those subsidies. However, these subsidies and then the young families there started buying real estate in 2005, as soon as they bought the property after a year, the subsidy was abolished. Plus then of course exchange rates, plus interest rate changes, all illegal and then suddenly families who had a very good perspective are brought into a state that they can't pay their loans. The state, for example, freely played it the same way. The state needs to be involved and the state needs to help every family to gain a home and help to preserve their home and not leave everything in the hands of banks, meaning mercy and mercy. The banks are doing their job. Well, there's a cop, too, so he doesn't hit people on the street with him every day, but he uses it as an emergency. So they're using it in the end. Thus, banks should also actually be forced to be ethical and to refrain from decommissioning and execution, as long as there is any possibility of resolving the dispute peacefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2444	Thank you. And another replica of colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2445	Dear Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to speak. Well, here's a colleague of the Bunjac says it's not disputed that the debt should be paid back. And indeed there was a time in these places when debt could come back, when people without a problem were returning loans but now we see that we are in trouble that neither the state nor the citizens can repay them. And the question is, should we then insist on returning something if it can't be returned? I mean, if they're going to insist on paying back debt and there's no money for it, how it's going to end. It is evident that there is a social disaster ahead of us, it is evident that this government which is unfortunately managed outside and the previous has no intention of doing anything about it and I appeal to all of you MPs, especially to my own colleagues that they do not enter into the trap of the burden to pay back and are aware that the debt cannot return. Then it should be said this way, if the system is such that loans at the macro-level or total sum can be returned so if this is theoretically possible then it should be returned, but if it is theoretically impossible to repay those debts then it is necessary to say, or we will not repay these debts, or we will reform the monetary system, and then we will return them when possible. Because returning credit to this system was my grandfather's late call to Sizif's job. So our country has been repaying loans for 25 years and the debt of the state is only growing. In the same way, citizens have been repaying loans for years, so they owe more than they were. It's clear from the plane that such a model pays off debt or insisting on its payment doesn't actually lead anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2446	There's no response to the replica. Then let's move on to the next individual debate, that's distinguished colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2447	Thank you, fellow Vice President of the Parliament. Here, at the beginning of this debate, I would like to deny and remind my colleagues who were here in the last session who spoke mostly from the ruling majority yesterday that our party had not offered any solution. Please make a nice proposal for law number 52 was handed over on April 29th at the service, there are some of our solutions in there. Maybe he's not as engrossed as this proposal of yours, which I still find insufficiently quality, but he was supposed to encourage a public debate, and that's ultimately the first reading. It was too late then and now it's too late for many. However, much fewer people would have had much less problems if we had started the discussion in time. And the question is, in general, how long will it take to pass a new and more quality law, will it be by the end of the year, or will it last much longer? The other thing is, since my colleague Maras was speaking just before my talk on the thesis that if we would ban the performance of one real estate to make it impossible for young people to get credit, to get their home, I guess that's what he meant, I call on him to think again about it. Why? I remind you of the information that let's say 85% of the credit so this hour it can be paid off, it can be returned, it's back to the CNB data and 15% can't be returned. Therefore, the banks will not lend loans due to such a provision, why? Because if we have 100 people 85% of people will successfully repay the loan, they will successfully return the principal, successfully repay the interest, etc. etc. From these 15 to 10, maybe the bank will be charged I don't know the real estate the other way around. And maybe these five, maybe these five of them won't get anything, or they'll get very little, as long as they were able to pay. Therefore, because of these 5 or 15 banks, they will not leave the country or stop doing business. As far as this particular bill of law is concerned, I believe that the promise of the Most was broken, which was said to protect the only home, or property that served as the only place to live, why? Because this law doesn't protect her. I'm afraid that the promoters who aren't here didn't have the courage to stand up to the banks and transfer the burden of this financial system to them, but on the contrary, but to the state, the state should take care of the unfortunate, our fellow citizens, it should accommodate them. This law actually puts the state in a position to tell the executives about banks doing a job of peaceful eviction in some of the 18 months there might not be any way, the question is when will people come to those apartments, that's what I was talking about yesterday, if you remember, again with an uncertain outcome. So this actually makes it easier for the banks to come into the possession of these properties and from that experience I know my people once they enter the property don't have to be done, it can be what I said yesterday's household law, it can be a work dispute, once they enter the property it's a done thing, dear God won't bring you back that I don't know what kind of annulment, etc. etc. Especially with the slowness of our judiciary. So, the law forces the state to put people in some sort of shelter, so this isn't the protection of one home, this is the provision of shelter for 18 months. Cases of which I mentioned when people take a housing loan for years, I don't know any mortgages, they pay it back for decades, they pay back a huge piece of 70, 80% get into a situation in life when they can't serve it anymore, it gets done, loses all that money and loses and that real estate. In such cases, this law will not protect their property. And that's what I say again, the archetype, they're the worst, they're the worst cases. The other thing is the problem, selling for much less value. So I explained earlier in a replica, taking a loan twenty years ago at a time of credit expansion, real estate was worth more, then there was an evaluation, time went away, we got into today's situation, there was an execution, there was a second assessment, before the auctions were done electronically it was some closed business, it was known maybe a couple of people in court and who read those advertisements etc. And that would be played until the third auction where the rule is to give what you give, and for a very small amount, it would actually be sold for invaluable. Even many such people will not be helped by such a bill. So let's remember all the illegalities in the work of banks in Croatia. So how many times has it been said how many illegal loans have been made? So why the Franak Association? What is the point of the "Watch out who you're banking with" Association because banks went into business, mostly entrepreneurs with people, and then retreated from it and then re-executed and re-selled everything, etc. etc. It's a crime. We want to talk about the Hypo affair. We want to talk about the bank recovery. How much of what 70 billion has been thrown. I found out that when the banks were recovered, there was a provision that whoever bought it had to return what had been recovered, but that it had been removed from the bill at the last minute. I can ask a representative's question, if I'm going to get an answer. I probably won't like all the questions before. So this is about colleagues and colleagues, what I always want to emphasize not on social standards, but on the civilization standard. The people we talk about here most often, of course, the proposal is much wider. A dozen things change. This is where we mentioned hundreds of things that have been extended to other laws, and I think that should be done in the set, reformed as soon as possible. So, I'm talking here about people who are victims of the system, a system that's been loaning our citizens long enough, robbing our citizens long enough, and I'm not going to agree to the thesis that the state has to take over the burden, all the burden of what's happening in our society and that the judiciary doesn't mention anyone, and that no one mentions the banks without knowing the cooperatives. No, I don't. At worst, why didn't someone suggest let's start a fund, tax the banks, set up a fund to pay for that fund, and then we'll get out of it if we really have to move people out, then put them somewhere. We'll pay out of that, then, if we're going to go to that solution. No, the cost must be borne by the state. And what's the alternative for people to stay permanently in our real estate? Thank God we have a real estate of thirty and a few billion worth, of course not all apartments. I think there's 15 thousand of them somewhere. We're going to see the cost of over time so much that it's going to be a huge burden on the state budget. So that's certainly not the answer. So, the problem is at system level, and so I'm asking that a civilization step be made and that we go towards the ultimate and final solution that you can't have that grandfather, that house of yours, your property. So we're limited to not know the 90 squares we are. No one should leave the palaces, but in your hometown where you have that property, you stay there, we'll help you, make it easier, and it should be a concept that we should stick to, and that's what we stand for. There's a lot to mention. Here I am at the end of time. Among other things, our fellow citizens who work and who are unable to have a protected account, I do not know the free interest of artists etc. They take everything. They don't have any protection. Die on the road, who's asking you. I find this bill simply insufficient, bad and living wall certainly won't support it in this reading. I call because now it's an opportunity to make the right law, to boldly step out and solve problems on the burden of those who made them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2448	Five is a replica. He is the first of his distinguished colleagues, Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2449	Thank you. My colleague Sincic, I think that is exactly how I propose to protect the necessary residential space that has no mortgage, then the necessary living space to some length of 50,000 kuna, and any living space that is burdened with illegal loans solves 99% of cases in the Republic of Croatia as regards the performance of real estate. Then the 1% now I speak from my stomach, it doesn't have to be true, then the 1% can really solve the state with some kind of social measure. As far as the value of real estate and sales is concerned, I said when I proposed that it should not be sold below the value of two-thirds of the property. So it can increase even to some larger amount, it doesn't have to be two-thirds can be like 70%. Then I had this proposal that a debtor who came into trouble would be allowed to pay back 80% of the debt by selling real estate, and the other 20% to pay back the same way he paid off the real estate. So there are solutions. If the MOST colleagues accept them, I think it'll be better for all of us, and the proposal goes to a public hearing. In the meantime, before the second reading, before the final proposal is made, we still have time for not amendments but concrete proposals to change the proposal and we may even reach a consensus that the final proposal is in line with the proposals of most MPs here in the Parliament. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2450	Answer to the replica of my colleague Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2451	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Alexic, you have covered a lot of things with your own solutions. But the problem is here in the protocol. So we got bill proposals here while the paper was still hot. We didn't know what we were going to get, the ruling majority probably knew what it was about, what the proposal was. I was even afraid there would be an emergency procedure, that there would be no two readings, that there would be a few measures that we would say something like this, that we might have a few hours to prepare, and then we'd be forced to vote on. We need a public debate, we need to consult as many parties as possible, and we will certainly take this opportunity and this public debate to provide information that many do not know about and that there are and how important their importance is to the consequences of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2452	Second replica, colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2453	Thank you very much. Mr. Sincic, since you mentioned me in the debate, I'd just like to point out a few facts. So I didn't say no one would get a loan but the loan would be much less. It's just mathematical like that. Because in case the banks cannot be charged on real estate, only those clients who are 100% sure will be able to repay credit and amounts that are not greater than what is their acceptable risk. So they won't be affected by those who have money and have good jobs and good receipts, they'll be affected by people with average incomes of 5, 6 thousand kunas, 4 thousand kunas because they won't be able to provide insurance for their loan and the bank won't give them money. It doesn't matter if they pay it off neatly in the future, but it'll simply be an unacceptable risk to the bank. So me and my government, where I was a member, surely we can't fall under those that the banks pet, means we're afraid to touch them, etc. Considering that the government where I was transferred the cost of conversion of Swiss exclusively to banks. That's 6.7 billion kuna. So we didn't have that fear. On the other hand, believe me, no one is indifferent to people who are left without a roof over their heads and no one thinks these people should be helped. It just needs to be real. So you shouldn't make a move with a bigger problem than it is now. So now we're going to save 500 or 1,000 people who will be protected in this way and potentially tens of thousands of people will no longer be able to get credit to buy that house in their place and apartment where they could live. The problem could be solved as I said, let the state take over for socially endangered people and take over the property and let them be in real estate while they have that status. When they stand alone and have money, then let them lose their status. So some solution I think would be acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2454	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2455	Thank you, Vice President. It is true that banks did not so rarely lend loans knowing that the one they gave it to would not be able to repay. So they went there often conscious of taking something, doing something. I had a chance to talk to people who work in banks, mostly young people who were encouraged by their bosses to put credits all over the place, to owe people they knew they couldn't get back in advance. Therefore, people should not always be blamed for why you took it. The question needs to be asked why is it a credit day? So it's not a unilateral contract, it's a two-way contract. I think it's generally a sad fact that the bank is going into a relationship where she knows she won't be able to charge the loan. So it goes with a conscious intention to destroy someone, to take someone's property and not just that real estate, but everything that they're connected to through the OIB.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2456	Third replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2457	Thank you, Chairman. I see my colleague Sincic is basically telling the truth and everything he says I agree with it. It's actually impossible to find a normal man who doesn't agree with him by my healthy judgment. But the problem here is deeper nature, which is that we keep dealing with the consequences. So none of us wants to discuss whether loans in total are invaluable, whether the state can return them and whether the citizens can return them. Because if we come to the conclusion that they are not then we can go to a solution, and we refuse to accept, throughout this debate, the fact that there is a solution or a problem called credit default. As long as that problem isn't perceived, we can't solve it. And the debate on the resolution of the consequences of how we will protect real estate I don't know how to slow down the occupancy, find replacement accommodation, reduce the cost of execution etc. It's all one I'd call it verbal ping-pong that can't solve the problem. Because remember, ladies and gentlemen, the problem cannot be solved unless its cause is solved. And as you can see for yourself, we're not talking about the cause at all. I can't believe they say it in Serbian. I can't believe nobody can see it. How is it that in our country, such an obvious thing everyone ignores and only deals with the method of disputing the perpetrators? We come down to the debate all the time about how we're going to depose people and no one's asking why these people are even in this situation to disintegrate them. So this is like a broken phone. I don't know what to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2458	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2459	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's fellow Pernar, of course, to start with the cause. I just want to warn one amazing fact that just as those who defend such a financial system almost never feel the fat side of it, do not feel the burden of execution, do not feel the burden of occupation, but rather the opposite are given ministerial places, places in colleges, high-ranking places in the judiciary, so respectable social places to defend this system, to defend the policy of borrowing and sales never feeling its consequences and expecting citizens of irony who have often voted for them to feel the full burden of such a policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2460	Fourth replica, esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2461	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this law really only provides minimal protection does not go, it deals with the consequence does not go into the essence of the problem, and the point of the problem is that in Croatia there is far and far too much of the division, and with the trend of growth, and no one wonders how it comes at all. So if RBA cooperatives have completed one-third of their credit users, and that's not the final number, then obviously something is wrong with RBA cooperatives, not with debtors. Also destroyed families with Swiss francs. Here I would like to know where the banks are and at what price and when they were buying those Swiss francs? I'm also interested in these huge loans that are being issued to citizens where they have coverage? So banks must have coverage of 11 out of 12% of their assets they have in the bank. So is it possible with 12 kuna to pay the table? Well, so does the kid in the second grade of elementary school that it's impossible. You can pay... kuna with a hundred kunas or possibly if you have a hundred and five kunas again you can pay the table, but you can't pay the table with 12 kunas. So banks issue some kind of virtual money that's made out of nothing, and then they trade it for real values, so what is the property of people, their wages, their savings, etc. And that's where we need to go to upgrade this law that is some kind of emergency fire strike to solve the problem that's caused all of these raids and all of these painful scenes that we've been witnessing for a decade.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2462	And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2463	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague of Bunjac you mentioned the problem of Swiss, perhaps the most exposed and institutionalized problem of all the problems that the National Bank has cooked as a bad regulator. In the end, it turns out that out of so many Swiss people that were sold as sold and in the form of loans there were very few actually Swiss, that there was a lot of goods sold in the Swiss package. So when the governor gets here, we'll ask him one more time what's been going on. This time it'll be different.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2464	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2465	Dear colleague Sincic, today I appreciate your debate because it is much more moderate and related to the subject than yesterday's debate. I'm listening very carefully. I'm just afraid that since we're talking about the Official Law on Amendments and Supplements, we wouldn't forget the tree discussion about the forest, because the exercise isn't just about real estate and living space. I just want to ask you if you've ever taken a loan, if you've had a mortgage loan and if you've paid for a mortgage loan? If you didn't, then we could have a nice cup of coffee, so I'll tell you that ten years after I got paid first thing I did, I solved the loan war. Living with a mortgage isn't easy for anyone, so I have personal experience. But there's only one thing I have to tell you, the bank didn't come to me and offer a loan, but I went to the bank to ask for a loan to settle my housing issue and the quality of my living space. So let's not change the thesis. That's what this is about. It is undeniable that the MOST proposal is better than the existing Implementing Law because for certain social categories in cases of enforcement, I do not know what account, it protects most of the pension and salary. It is indisputable that we can discuss how we are going to do a real estate assessment, but the legislator said it only you have to read it, it can be changed. My time is running out, and I apologize for yesterday when I said that the protected tenants had no tenant right in response to your replica. They had a tenant right, but they never exercised the right to purchase, in violation of constitutional provisions today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2466	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2467	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja, thank you for the replica. When I was 26 years old or 24 years old, almost when I entered the presidential campaign, I had no opportunity to have a mortgage loan. You have clearly distinguished your example here as an example of a person who is able to service that loan. So absolutely anyone who can service it with their receipts needs to service it. We're talking about those who found themselves unable to serve it, not because they don't want it, they have a pay something so they don't want it, they're victims of the system, so they're 17% and they just can't do it. They are subject to one rule, and other laws apply to them in the event of payment, and to those of us who belong yesterday, if I remember fellow Horvat how many people pay over tens of thousands of kuna, for that small percentage of us here in the financial sense are worth the happiness or, unfortunately, other rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2468	Thank you. The next individual debate should be the debate of counterpart Zeljko Glasnovic, however, he is not and he is losing his right to debate. So now we're going to the final debates of the clubs. We have three clubs. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Honored counterpart Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2469	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of this presentation, I would like to thank you for your contribution to the debate in the first reading of this proposal of the law and to invite you, of course, to submit your proposals in the context of the public debate until the second reading and the final draft of the law to make this law the best possible law under the jurisdiction covered by this law. So in these two days, the assembly discussed most of the reasons for the poor economic status of citizens, the policy of the functioning of banks and other important topics, but at least there was a draft implementing law to be adopted in the end. A whole series of proposals to represent the matter of some other regulations were presented in the debate. The implementing law deals with the tool of public assistance in implementing executive decisions while a whole series of issues related to the additional protection of socially endangered persons and with the illegal activities of certain legal entities should be discussed in the context of amendments to the rules relating to social protection and to regulations relating to the operation of credit or other institutions. In this direction, criticism related to the problem of the fate of the perpetrators is also welcomed after the end of the possibility of using a 18-month substitute property. The issue will certainly need to be regulated in more detail, but it will be the subject of a debate within the framework of the rules on the social protection of citizens and on civil legal relations between the state and citizens, not the subject of a debate on the rules governing the forced collection of claims. It is also necessary to discuss all ideas related to the restriction of the rights of banks to play the country's positive regulations and must be discussed under the rules of civil border material law, consumer rights, credit finance and criminal and criminal provisions, not within the framework of regulations dealing with the exercise of the right of creditors to collect claims arising from executive documents. Any constructive proposal to amend these other regulations will support this club but, in the context of the debate on the protection of the home of executives in the executive procedures, we believe that there is a limit beyond which no question of the constitutionality of new solutions could be raised. In all of this, it should be borne in mind that it is not possible to differentiate the norms of the executive law from different types, i.e. in the particular case of the bank. This is the most eloquent decision of the Constitutional Court of June of this year which abolished Article 39(3). Official law for putting individual executives in an unbalanced and unequal position. Nor is it possible that one SDP representative was well noticed by this law to solve all cases of the necessary people. In doing so, we think of abandoned, homeless, wasteful, migrants, asylum seekers, and others. These solutions therefore come in a high-quality, highly authorised and only possible way in the framework of the executive procedures to meet socially endangered perpetrators who remain without real estate. And a whole range of measures should be left to discuss other legal proposals that we hope will come to an end very quickly. It should also be mentioned that no country in the neighbourhood and no EU country has the required protection of the property of the perpetrators in the executive proceedings except for partially Italy but on a much lighter basis, which is another evidence in favour of the fact that these proposals have already gone very far in the ability of the enforcement process and that any further solutions should be sought in the context of some other regulations. Certainly, we would like to consider and accept the proposals on the protection of the single property, but we should be careful not to cross the border of constitutional acceptability and acceptability of the solution under the regulations of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, so as not to unlawfully violate the right of enforcement and of customers. new real estate owners. Our proposal comes to meet the perpetrators but in no way violates the rights of customers until the rights of the executives are particularly threatened with the possibility of delaying the implementation before the sale of real estate for a year because, during that time, he continues to have a tight interest. We therefore consider that this is a well-balanced approach that has reached the limits possible in the context of the debate on the Implementing Law. Someone mentioned that we don't protect the perpetrator in the performance for the collection of non-money claims. All the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights and elemental legal logic so far states that the protection of the right to a home in eviction cases, therefore beyond the eviction resulting from the sale of money debt, is achieved in the context of a litigation procedure. That is to say, under the pre-trial procedure. It is only possible to discuss the principle of proportionality before a court of litigation, i.e. to answer questions as to whether or not to go to the emigration of debtors at all. Therefore, in these cases, the right of the perpetrators, or more debtors, can only be debated before a court of litigation and it is inadmissible in any way to standardise the law of the bodies leading the executive proceedings to derrogation of the judicial judgments. That would be the end of the legal system as we know it and the introduction to complete anarchy. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Damir Kontrec, also declared this in his presentation at the preliminary consultation on currentities Thank you. [[/Intruder Jandroković: I warn you in time, it is over. You can finish the sentence.]] I'd also like to say that there have been some remarks. It was constructively and quite in place to note that it was more precise to indicate the reason for the entry into force of certain provisions of the law. It was also appropriate to note that, in the text of the bill's proposal, we are missing the correct names of individual state, administrative bodies on the assessment point and resources needed to implement the law. This will also be corrected as well as some possible minor language errors that have lagging behind in the text of the bill. So I'd just like to say [[Intruder Jandrokovic: Thank you, I just thought you'd finish.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2470	Thank you. The second club is the final club of representatives of the Living Wall and distinguished colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2471	Thank you, Chairman, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We've seen all sorts of things, we've heard all sorts of things, but the basic thought that bothers the citizens is whether they're still going to pay the great costs of the executive procedure, means whether they're still going to be able to take 600 kuna or for 60 kuna I don't know 700 or 800, but we didn't get an answer to that question. We didn't get an answer, or we got a negative answer whether the only real estate would be protected from the performance, which means that the raids are moving on? The measure the government is offering is that 18 months of paid accommodation is actually a quasi measure, and I say quasi measure because after 18 months. Because the bill explicitly states that it can't, that it's maximum, and when it comes to a certain figure, that's it. So this measure is temporary and this measure is selective. I say selective because those who live as tenants won't get any protection. So even though they're both waiting for a replacement accommodation, they're only going to get the one who used to own it, the one who didn't go straight to the street, and it doesn't matter, either, or in the same status, they're finally both. However, this law discriminates against those two types of perpetrators. Of course, MOST colleagues do not see the problem as they do not see the problem in secret. Although the Constitution says that all are equal before the law, and this law allows only one party to be informed about the term of the procedure, which violates the basic legal principle since Roman law called party equality in the process. It's just some of the details, there's a million of them, and I often say that this is all we're saying is just actually a consequence and not a cause and that simply not after this debate and after this law, it's basically ladies and gentlemen that nothing will be solved. The only one who will be satisfied with these proposals, that is, these changes are us who represent the elite, we Parliamentarians, we will be fine, none of us hangs in the neck, or colleagues from the HDZ or colleagues from the SDP. My colleague Bunjac is in trouble with the loan, I guess he'll somehow get away with it now that he's an MP, but the question is, what about those who aren't parliamentary representatives of ministers, assistant ministers, secretaries or people employed with high wages? Such is in Croatia you would dare say 95% or 90%. So nine-tenths of the population will still be in trouble. Nobody cares. I encourage debate whether or not the loans can be returned, the replica is gone, the pain. I say the state can't repay the loans, so nobody cares. I ask where the citizens will come from if the state itself is not able to answer it. All everyone agrees with is that the loans should be paid back. And from that point of view, the loans should be returned and it's clear that it's impossible for us to find ourselves in this situation to think of how to delegate the perpetrator with as little resistance as possible. Then it is offered to you as an executioner as some kind of shabby measure, as a transitional measure, and basically all with the goal of him leaving his real estate peacefully and actually making it possible to act by quick procedure. However, what will happen? You'll find yourself in a situation where your executives in these replacement apartments or houses where you put them won't want to come out of them. So when they find themselves in a situation to pass those 18 months you'll knock on the door, you have to get out, and they won't want to, and we'll end up back to the dissection. It means as long as you're running away from dejection again at the end of the raids coming. I remember when I read a book called Vladka Pokos, it's called Life in Paradise. Now I see the title of Life in Paradise and I've been thinking, let's get something to worry about and get my eyes off the cleavage and this horror that I see every day. First chapter I open, I write inside Vlatka Pokos says Dickan says he grabbed me, threw me out of the apartment, and then we finally got to the dissection. And it's just that this dissection is imposed as one light motive through this law that we obviously won't be able to solve until we deal with the cause. And that's why I'm asking you to think about it one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2472	We have three replicas. He's his first colleague, Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2473	My colleague Pernar, so those proposals I made if they were adopted, will indeed be reduced to a minimum and this minimum will then be able to be addressed by social measures. So that's how I expect MOST and HDZ colleagues to accept these proposals and then solve it that way. Because it's really hard to prescribe to prevent any real estate from being carried out except for those I suggested because if the bank gave a loan and as a stock of real estate it's hard to prevent the bank from taking such a property unless the bank has contracted that loan in an illegal manner. And since most of the large majority of the loans are just as agreed, then we will, with one such measure, stop the banks from taking away almost all the real estate. The banks will simply be bound by their hands and they will not be able to carry out the debtors because most of the loans are negotiated in an illegal manner. Therefore, the executions will become a thing of the past. That's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2474	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2475	Well, Mr. Alexic, God forbid your proposal was adopted by God. God gave it to solve 90% of the problem, but experience teaches me that as long as we don't deal with the cause, we're going to stumble in the consequences. It's like someone's trying to solve a row problem in front of a soup kitchen. There is no measure to correct this if the system does not change. And all the time it's been avoided means the essential question, the question of theoretical debt payback. There's no discussion about theoretical debt payback. And I will repeat the question asked by former Finance Minister Maric, I have asked him with time the debt of the state is growing, and the property of the state is being reduced in parallel. What happens when the debt goes to the ceiling and the property of the state falls to the bottom? The answer to that question actually doesn't. Our country awaits bankruptcy and bankruptcy awaits our citizens. When it comes to that, there will be a place where my dears will be, but until it burns under our heels or chairs, we will sit here happily, report for individual debates and debates on behalf of the club or replicate. And we can outsmart ourselves here until the day of judgment and me with HDZ, they can pollomize with them 20 times, but that won't solve the problems. And unfortunately, this ruling majority has no intention, i.e. Not that he doesn't want to solve the problem, but he doesn't even want to recognize his cause and admit it because until that cause is recognised, there is no going out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2476	Second replica, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2477	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Pernar you said, so when that time is up and that money is spent if it is, I think it's 51,000 kuna, which is the question. Right? I think the good part of the citizens who have to move out of their only real estate will rather say look, I won't go 18 months into that space of yours, who knows what's going to happen after, can trap the government, the law changes, 100 things. You give me that 50, which thousand and I go I don't know in Germany, Ireland, I'll do much better with it, I'm sure it'll be a lot easier to start with that money than to stay here. Here's what you think about people who would find themselves in that situation even though this law would pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2478	Well, my colleague Sincic reminded me...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2479	I'm the only one who'd still give you a colleague of Pernar's, but it's kind of a turn if I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2480	We're back to the question from the beginning of the story. I remember the Belovar case, the 200 kuna debt occupancy. So a man's Veterinary Station is doing real estate due to a 200 kuna debt. With this money that the state will give, I don't know these 51,000 kunas for this accommodation could in many cases simply pay back and simply pay the debt that people have and that there is no dissuasion at all and that people don't have to remain without real estate and go to replacement accommodations at all. Well, you see, but no one's thought about it because everyone's thinking that there's some astronomical debt, but trust me, colleagues from all sides of the political spectrum of the roads to the dissection is a lot. It seems to be happening extremely only in certain cases, only to some people. However, when you live in this ordinary world and not in a world of high politics, it is something that can really happen to anyone and that experience has taught me that life experience. And that's why at first I thought no, and these are border cases, these are some extreme examples. But when I saw an example of the case, I just saw that what we thought of as an exception became a practice. And the biggest problem, Mr. Sincic, is that as the state privatises assets such as HEP, people will be out of work. Finally, loans will not be returned, jobs will be gone. What is the future of our country that only God knows. Please keep in mind these words of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2481	And the third replica of the esteemed colleague, Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2482	Dear colleague Pernar, I am sorry that you as the person who declares yourself the greatest fighter for the oppressed and socially endangered so pessimistically refer to this bill that is only in the first reading. Does that mean you're just a demagogue? I believe that you will deny all of us here through the process of public debate and that you will make quality proposals on how to improve this law, not only this law, but in the coming days, in the next meetings of the Croatian Parliament, I expect that you will propose a whole set of laws relating to the Executive Law in order to fully close these issues and so that there will be no more of those completed and decommissioned persons in Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2483	Mr. Kristic, you see, you're at the beginning there from the pay phone...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2484	Excuse me, colleague Pernar. First you didn't pick up the line, so we can ignore that well. But please just wait for some order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2485	Thank you, Chairman. I kept an eye on it, I looked at the contents, I didn't think about the shape. Here's colleague Kristic says, well Mr. Pernar, if you are not one demagogue, if you are a man who has concrete solutions why don't you propose a concrete proposal. However, my colleague Kristic forgets that only a few minutes before me he said that MOST would not agree to protect itself from the performance alone, while calling me, says counterpart Pernar, please suggest your proposal. That's what I've been saying all along, that proposal has been submitted by my colleague Sincic in the previous assembly. Never did this ruling team want to put him on the agenda, let alone vote. So, we're in a situation where we're called up as if we're doing something like it'd be more likely then that the Most and HDZ would agree to it. And now I'm supposed to be here, I don't know the duty clown and say yes, yes. Here I am now going to hand over this proposal to you, and I am going to believe that you will, and we know that you and I and everyone here sitting with me in the House, and even my colleagues, are going to refuse that proposal. So it's Sisif's job again. So, to a vain effort where the time of counsel is simply stolen as to God's suggestion, give them some concrete suggestions, and it is clear from the plane that these proposals will not be accepted. And then the question arises, which one of us is the demagogue me or you? It's in public to judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2486	We're done with the replicas. And the third club of representatives is the Club of Representatives "Let's Change Croatia" and SNAGE in the name of which the distinguished colleague Ivan Lovrinović will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2487	Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs here I would like to contribute to this debate, meaning one of the socially useful initiatives of the Most. We on the subject of the execution it's always the consequence of something. Someone said it was an execution. On the legal side, that's true. But today it's right that those who speak yesterday that these are not the causes but the consequences that are being solved. And that's where I agree. If we want to be constructive, it's good that this law doesn't go according to an emergency procedure, now it's a question of who started this law, so MOST... And here we will see how ready it is to form good suggestions, constructive or simply move away and not adopt them. [[You don't understand.]] Well, here, I'll try to make a quick suggestion. So the execution is always the result of something. Of what? The loss of a job, the inability to pay off interest rates, currency clauses, insecure life, life on a high foot, and that is, but let's say that this is the result of job losses, interest rates and currency clauses. How could we solve this problem? We see in this proposal it means it's a social moment that the perpetrator won't throw himself on the street to get a plastic toilet and tent but to put him in a social apartment for 18 months. And what about after 18 months? So here's the gentlemen from the Most, listen to this proposal, I'm ready to help you, I think everyone here is well-intentioned to try to do something. Here's an example, the man's in debt, he took the loan, the apartment costs 500 thousand kuna, he paid off 100 thousand kuna, and he can't pay anymore, so here comes the charge. It's all done. Under the current law, the initial price is four-fifths of value, that would be 400 thousand kuna. If the price is reached by a calm bank, the debtor goes out to the social housing. If she can't sell the bank for $400,000, she's selling another try for 300 grand. The bank loses 100 grand, the debtor goes out again. If it's not sold, then it's going to start another charge and the price is still going down. However, this does not match the bank, does not solve the state anything and does not correspond practically to the perpetrator. I propose to hire the Agency for Real estate that would buy apartments alongside the discount, I don't think there are more than a few hundred currently in Croatia, but in this way that it is involved in the process means auctions and when the price of course falls. And what does that solve? We're solving banks, banks are gonna lose one piece, I don't have much time to explain, so the banks are gonna lose one piece of their claim, but they're gonna settle down as much. It will fix its portfolio and reduce the cost of business, it will be healthier, it suits them. What will happen to the perpetrator? He'll stay in his apartment, not go for 18 months, we can settle it, stay and continue to pay the APN off credit rates but now at a significantly lower price because he won't pay more, he'll pay the state and APN as much as he bought the debt. So I'm willing to talk more about it because I don't have enough time for that. So, it's a request with a discount where a state, or its Real Estate Agency, is involved, which in this way saves, improves the state and banks, claims and saves a debtor who stays in his real estate, has no psychological problems, is not under pressure. Of course, this isn't a problem-solving thing, it's not a cause-solving thing. What Mr. Alexic was saying would solve a lot of problems in this situation. You've been illegally accounting for interest, you can't start the process of enforcement, and I think that should certainly be included in this law. However, in a month's time, credits will be negotiated at variable interest rates that are regulated legally and we will have problems like this. So this solution is long-term. It and one side looks and the other side looks. So, if this is an invitation to constructive dialogue to get rid of the law here, gentlemen, we'll give all our knowledge, I'm willing to help because it's in our best interest that citizens who have been killed not to throw themselves out, not to look at those disgusting scenes of devastation where the Living Wall really set up its bodies to save people. They wouldn't, they wouldn't, they'd do a lot of things and they'd save a lot of people. So, I think that from now on, housing lending policy needs to be devoted to an extremely important role and that it should be an extremely important segment of state policy in the process of demographic renewal, social sensitivity, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2488	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2489	Dear colleague Lovrinović, I only have one correction, you said an example that someone took 500 thousand kuna credits and paid off 100, then can't pay further, enters the process of enforcement but not four-fifths of 500 thousand but four-fifths of the new estimated value... But okay, mathematically, I agree, but I underline the fact that it's always before it's done for a new estimated value because it's a market story. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's it. However, something else is a fundamental motive for me to answer for the replica. You started this well with APN, with apartments. These are certain possibilities that are real. And I'm really worried that we don't have as a continuation of this executive law a quality housing policy in Croatia and that we don't do it at all. And the executive law can't resolve that, there's a whole series of laws about this executive law that should be very, very consistent. But I only want one thing to think about because I know you'll think about what and how to put into function empty apartments? There are at least a few thousand in Zagreb, in other cities the same. What about them? How do you motivate owners to function? Well, maybe this social function. Do we agree that there are many apartments that are empty? The Italians took care of it. They tax extra living space. I'm not saying it's the right and the right thing to do, but they have such a law and it's called... and it motivates owners to rent and for other functions release extra living space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2490	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2491	Dear Representative Hrelja, I was fenced when I said it was a highly simplified example and of course it is done in every next step a new assessment of the value that can go up and down towards the state of the market. But what I'm trying to say is that what I've been saying here isn't my novelty, so these are the things the world's been doing for a long time. But look it may have very good and positive consequences, I said we're not against banks but against this kind of work we are. So this solves problems in banks that are healthier, but we also need more ethical banks, and on the other hand it protects citizens above all. But this second part you set I think is extremely important, I think I read yesterday that when I was preparing for one performance, there are about 25 thousand apartments in its own possession, about 7.5 thousand business spaces and I'm not still counting, about 30 billion euros against the value of state property. So we see that this is one big barn. You're saying there's a significant number of empty apartments, so who lives in those apartments they're waiting for while on the other side of the young family and their children are being kicked out? There's no state policy, and we want to run a demographic policy. So what you're saying is really amazing in one country where we have empty apartments, where we have the ones that are used. So there is no cooperation between policies because if we want to run a new demographic policy then we need to unite what you're talking about and tax policy and the judiciary that we see is not doing its job. That only makes sense, otherwise this second one shows that this is really an unrelated system and that we still need to make a state of Croatia. This isn't the state yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2492	Second replica of the distinguished colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2493	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative, I would like to thank you for being one of the few who is trying to contribute to these discussions with your concrete proposals, not returning to 1941, and I would just like to ask if it is possible for you to deliver this proposal to us in more detail, or model of the functioning of the Real Estate Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2494	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2495	Here's a pleasure. I know the intention was good, but no one drank the mind of the whole world, we all have to learn to solve problems together. I'll be happy to help you. We're all here for that. But you would also suggest one thing, not just for you, but for any of us, let's not go out with proposals that are too missing. Let's do them, let's do the interviews first, okay? Now there's been an election, so everyone's been in a hurry to understand these things, political campaigns, the struggle on the political market, I understand everything, but we're not going to be me ever being maligned, no matter what I got out of MOST, I explained why we split up, but I'm willing to help. This isn't just knowledge for me as well as for you sitting here if we know anything to keep to ourselves. It's in the interest of hundreds of thousands of people, let's finally start solving problems. And my intention is not to tell fairy tales, stories, come back even though there are some things here that point to deeper disorders, and we're really like a country of economies in deep disorders. Here some younger colleagues of mine are really certain the thesis that are standing, of course we're not all the same here by profession, so many people don't understand, but when the system doesn't solve properly, then loans about the inability to pay end with mass bankruptcy, economic breakdown or write-off claims. That's why they're made up jubilee back in the day before Christ, etc. So let's be on the level, let's do something to protect a man from living decently in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2496	Thank you. So, I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item on the agenda is the draft law supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. Number 7. With this agenda point, we will continue the debate tomorrow as one significant number of our colleagues at the funeral of victims from the Huda Cave in the Republic of Slovenia, and since it is a very important item of the agenda that defines the rights of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, I think it is correct to discuss this issue when the assembly is full. Thank you again and I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30. Session interrupted at 16,40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2497	The next item is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, first reading, P.Z. No. Six. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion 1 shall be adopted by the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law. 2. any comments, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that with 87 votes for, 36 abstentions and 7 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The Justice Committee and the SDP Representatives' Club have proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which is required by the Proposer to carry out public consultation under the provisions of the Law on the right to access to information. Does the proposing representative want to show himself about the proposal for a conclusion? Yeah. Here is Representative Miroslav Šimić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2498	We agree, we accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2499	I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice and the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I conclude that it is unanimous with 130 MPs to draw conclusions in the text as proposed by the Committee on Justice and the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The SDP representative club has proposed another conclusion, which is in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to draw up a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines that, with the consent of the legislator, it can be determined that the final draft law shall be drawn up by the working body of the Parliament or the Government. And then they consider themselves the legislator of the law and the former proposer loses the position of the applicant. I would ask the applicant's representative to show himself on this proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2500	We disagree.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2501	Since the applicant does not agree with this proposal, the conclusion is without substance to vote on Article 188. Rules of Procedure. Representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2502	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not market a break on behalf of the club and thus harass the representatives, but I do not think this is the mistrust that MOST has pointed out towards its own government, according to its own minister of justice not recorded in the Croatian parliamentary history and practice so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2503	Representative Peja Grbin, since you have used the right of replica, then I will just answer that the Parliament is also the most legislative body and that it is really able to be the legislator, and all of you in this situation have the opportunity to make, that this law be equally quality and that it is not at all a challenge in any way by any minister or government but rather by giving it to you as a representative and all other MPs. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted a report in accordance with Article 11(3). Law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. You received the report at the session. I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. I'm asking him to submit an opening statement. Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2505	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I am really pleased to be back in the Croatian Parliament so quickly only a few days after the government gained confidence in the highest representative body of the Republic of Croatia. When I presented the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, I stressed that the Government will focus more on action and on policies within our membership in the European Union. Such a commitment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia stems from earlier decisions of the Croatian Parliament, which defines membership in the European Union as a strategic national goal but also clearly expressed by most Croatian voters in a referendum held in January 2012. I therefore believe that the decision-making process, including at European level, should be as transparent as possible and should include all institutions and actors, in particular the Croatian public, and in this context gain the strong interest of political parties, in particular parliamentary ones, to express their views on this. This is precisely the goal of deepening the dialogue between the Government and the Croatian Parliament, especially on those topics that are in the focus of the EU today, I would like to start with the practice of regular public reporting, as well as representatives on discussions and the conclusions of the meetings of the European Council. So it is my intention that after each meeting of the European Council I come to the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament and that dialogue on these topics become a regular part of the activities of this high house. The Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government in European Affairs determines that the Prime Minister at least once a year, so only once reports the Croatian Parliament on the meetings of the European Council. I think this new practice would contribute to the full informing of the Croatian public about the current political decisions taken at the level of the heads of state and government of the EU. So let me present the report on last week's meeting, so on October 20 and 21 in Brussels. The main topics of this meeting of the European Council were migration, external relations, above all EU-Russia relations, trade policy and other global and economic issues. These are all issues that are of great interest to Croatia, especially the topic discussed practically in continuity for the last 2 years, which is the issue of migration. Therefore, I am here today in the Croatian Parliament and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Mr Stier and Minister of Interior Mr Orepic, who each at their level as well as their predecessors discuss and present the views of the Republic of Croatia on these topics within the framework of the EU institutions. As priorities for the upcoming period, the Slovak Presidency stressed the operationalisation of the European Border and Coast Guard, the implementation of systematic checks at the external borders and the kind of return to the Schengen system. The European Border and Coast Guard was formally established about a month ago and the aim is to make maximum efforts to reach its capacity by the end of the year. So that is the intention of the European Council. It is also important to note that the European Border and Coast Guard guarantees equal treatment and Member States already within the Schengen system and those currently outside the Schengen system, which is particularly important for Croatia, which, as you know, is preparing to meet the criteria for inclusion in the Schengen system. And that is why I am particularly pleased to say that the European Border and Coast Guard will also participate in the work of the European Border and Coast Guard. In this regard, we are fully aware that, despite all our efforts to address the problem of migration risk at the EU's external borders, border police officers will make a contribution that is important in solving this problem, but cannot be the only one to address it in terms of protecting the external borders. The main part of the debate during the European Council meeting was the current strong migration pressure still present on the Mediterranean route and the main dialogue was conducted by directly affected countries, so first of all it is about Italy and other Mediterranean countries. An important aspect is the security dimension and, in this context, the necessary system of checks at the EU's external borders. When it comes to Croatia, we continuously contribute to Frontex operations and support countries on the so-called The Eastern-Mediterranean or Western Balkan route, therefore to those in the EU and those outside the EU, and we will continue to actively contribute to the work of the new agency both in terms of people and in terms of technology. We also agreed that preventing illegal migration and returning illegal migrants is crucial for establishing security in the EU, which is why a common return policy at EU level is necessary. The debate was also about understanding the concept of European solidarity. This is an extremely important question and you can see from the appearance of colleagues that it represents the essence of the current different views of individual leaders. While most of the leaders of the Union and most of the Member States are on track for real solidarity in implementing the move and move decisions, as well as implementing all parts of the content of a declaration between the EU and Turkey continue to advocate access on the basis of so-called. flexible solidarity. They believe that the EU can best contribute on a voluntary basis and on the basis of its own capacity to address the current refugee migration crisis compared to the concept set out to the greatest extent last year. Member States have agreed that there is major progress in identifying and registering irregular migrants at external borders. Nevertheless, those countries that are currently in control at the internal borders stressed that adequate control of the EU's external borders has not yet been achieved. And that is why internal border controls will remain in the next period of Austria, Germany, Denmark, Sweden and one non-EU member but a member of Schengen Norway. The meeting was also attended by the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy Federica Mogherini, who held a presentation on the subject of partnership frameworks and agreements called compacts with 5 priority African states, namely Niger, Nigeria, Mali, Ethiopia and Senegal. The aim of this cooperation is to combat migration pressures and direct efforts to address the problem at the root of the problems of migration itself. It expressed its readiness to extend this concept in December, depending on the Council's resources and positive assessment, to some other countries that pose a clear migration risk to EU members. So far, negotiations with countries that pose an emigration risk have largely assessed EU leaders positively. It is also very demanding, once a complex internal political situation in some of these countries that, of course, contributes to their destabilisation, endangers security. We remind you that the real risks of immigration and this refugee wave are so-called. non-functional states where, for a number of political security reasons, economic, financial, poverty, wars, internal conflicts, systems simply don't function well enough and then they spill over to the European continent. It is therefore crucial to have a comprehensive approach to migration policy, starting with the real causes of migration to dialogue with countries of origin and transit on the management of migration flows. We stressed that it is crucial that, with operational border control, all that the EU is carrying out at internal security level, it is important to step up efforts in the common foreign policy and in the common development policy. For the construction of institutions and stable states in those areas that are the source of the migration refugee wave. In any case, migration will remain for a whole series of months on the agenda of the European Council, and will be discussed again, you saw that summit which was held in Bratislava several weeks ago and on the European Council in December, as well as on the European Council in its 27 format, which will organise Malta in the first half of next year as the next EU Presidency. We also held a debate on trade policy and its impact on economic growth and employment. On this subject, the problem has been highlighted by the growing public concerns in the Member States for the preservation of the EU's reached standards, which also affects the relationship to trade agreements, and particularly in this context, a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the EU and Canada, which has been most discussed in this context since last week. These agreements are important for Croatia as well. So we make sure that the EU has a common trade policy. We believe that the agreement with Canada is one opportunity that will increase business opportunities for European companies in Canada, and also for Croatian businesses by abolishing or reducing customs duties. CETA should bring tangible benefits to European consumers and businesses, in most cases immediately after entry into force. These European and Croatian companies will, in particular, provide better market opportunities, while European exporters could save hundreds of millions of euros annually. Canada, when taxed, would abolish tariffs worth 400m euros on goods originating in the EU, and eventually transitional periods for the elimination of customs duties would increase to 590m euros annually. Croatia therefore supported the signing and provisional application of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement with Canada as well as its recent ratification in national parliaments. Tomorrow we will also have a meeting of the government to decide on a strategic partnership agreement between Canada and the EU, so when it comes to Croatia, we will make all the key formal assumptions that if the situation arises, we will be fully prepared for the act. The problem that has arisen you see from the media is in Belgium which is very specific when it comes to international agreements because of its constitutional structure, the jurisdiction of the federal level, the jurisdiction of regional parliaments. At the moment, it is seeking to find a solution in which the Belgian Francophonic province, so Valonia, however, would give consent to the federal government for the conclusion of this agreement. This is extremely important because of the EU's international credibility as actors in global relations and as a potential partner with which this type of agreement can and should be negotiated. The meeting also supports the conclusion of a Free Trade Agreement with Japan as well as a principled political agreement to wrap up these negotiations at a professional level by the end of the year. What we have particularly pointed out, and I have said in my presentation, is that it is necessary to bring the content of these agreements in spirit as much transparency as possible in a quality way to the public of the Member States. The second topic that dominated the trade debate concerned the modernisation of trade protection instruments. There, of course, Croatia supported the work on modernising them. It is our view that EU rules should be more transparent, predictable, accessible to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and faster and more effective in terms of deterring partners from using dumping and other unfair practices. When it comes to the proposal on rules on non-application of a lower amount of duty, we have welcomed all the proposals so far that will lead to the prevailing of different positions within the Council, and we expect a balanced agreement between the members by the end of this year. On other global and economic issues, the most important point of view on the European Fund for Strategic Investments is, therefore, until 6 December, which means taking into account the analysis of the results of an independent consulting house which is in this past period, so this is a key project by the Commission of Juncker to encourage the economy, to generate growth and development just initiate this European Strategic Investment Fund, which should then be combined with the European Structural Investment Funds. In this respect, this fund was created as a joint initiative by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank group to mobilise public and private funds in order to compensate for the lack of investment in the EU following the long-term and multi-annual financial crisis. This fund is the backbone of the investment plan for Europe and wants to mobilise 315 billion euros for investment. Croatia has welcomed the work so far achieved in the first year of implementation of the Investment Plan for Europe as well as the main financial measures of the European Fund for Strategic Investments. We also stressed that we can support the extension of implementation deadlines for an additional two years, depending on the results of this independent analysis and, in particular, more equidistant project financing in all EU member states. With regard to external relations, we held a dinner with a slightly more informal character of a very thorough discussion of the current relations with Russia, which also referred to the context of the current situation in Syria and the context of the Russian role in the illegally anecdoted Crime in Ukraine, the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk as two Ukrainian regions, and the need for a very principled and clear position and this is the EU's unique position in respect of respect of international law, respect for bilateral agreements, territorial integrity, as well as respect for the current still applicable restrictive regime that the EU has for Russia. Of course it's still about the so-called. The EU's two-sided approach to Russia. One is principled, the other is to take care of Russia as a global actor and in this sense there is, of course, dialogue and trade relations that are outside the restrictive regime. It is agreed to discuss this subject again at the European Council in December. We discussed further in this context and the situation with a negative referendum on the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU organised in the Netherlands in April. You know that this referendum, although the advisory character, unfortunately, was negative. We are currently working on solutions that should help the Netherlands find a political and legal sustainable solution that would allow this agreement to enter into force, while at the same time respecting certain messages that were heard during the Dutch referendum campaign on certain aspects of cooperation with Ukraine. And here it is about the credibility of the EU as a global actor with whom, in cases where you have a regional parliament of one member or a referendum that has been organised ex post after both homes of the Dutch Parliament ratified the agreement afterwards, it sends a negative signal about our credibility at international level in terms of sustainability in respect of what has been negotiated, and this is very important for Ukraine in this case and for Canada. Finally, for the first time, the new British Prime Minister Theresa May participated in this European Council with me as the new Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, so that the informal debates and the theme of the referendum held in the UK on leaving the EU were not bypassed. What was quite clear was that before formally London notified other Member States of its intention to respect the referendum results, there was no negotiations. They will appear only after March when, according to an internal calendar in the UK, this notification is scheduled to take place. And I just spoke with the European Commission's chief negotiator, former French Foreign Minister and Commissioner Michele Barnier, who is in charge of leading these negotiations in the future on behalf of the Member States, along with Council services on the methodology and key principles of these negotiations. Because we're keeping an eye on it, and that's precedent, and it's never happened before that before the Lisbon Treaty was even legally envisaged, so there was no current article 50. The EU Treaty on the basis of which a Member State may also exit the EU to establish the fundamental principles of how to negotiate exit. Second, how to arrange a transition period. And the third to see what kind of contractual relationship, and even political relationship between the EU from 27 to the UK, may come on the agenda after that period is over. It is a highly complex issue that is not just a question of membership in institutions. It is a question affecting UK citizens living in the EU and EU citizens living in the UK. There is also a very important position in Croatia because of the freedom of movement of people and the application of the 2+3+2 formula negotiated during our accession negotiations with the EU several years ago. There are also significant financial implications for the EU budget. We're at this point in the audit phase of the so-called. The multiannual financial framework, namely the 7-year EU budget, which lasts as you know from 2014 to 2020. The audit is being negotiated at the moment. The idea is to end this year and start 2017. You know that the EU budget is 80 % financed by the funds of the 10 most economically powerful Member States. Of course, the UK is among them. Therefore, in addition to the institutional aspect of the concrete aspect of UK exit, there will also be significant financial consequences on not only 7-year-old but also annual levels, and this applies naturally to UK obligations which, as you know, will take place not only until 2020 when this whole process should now be completed but probably by 2023. In every respect, I can say that Croatia is well-accepted, that all themes and migration and trade and foreign policy topics that I have articulated on behalf of Croatia are in the interest of the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament to participate regularly in these discussions this way in the future. The role of national parliaments is also important in the process of making decisions and implementing the principle of subsidiarity, including the principles of proportionality, the activities that you, as Croatian MPs, will have in different formats of cooperation with colleagues from other national parliaments and the European Parliament, and therefore I want this practice that we are doing, here I gain the circumstances immediately at the beginning of this call of the Croatian Parliament to contribute to greater sensibility of the Croatian public on the responsibilities of the Croatian Government, and then, of course, ministers in different Council formations. Many of you who have been in the government now but also before know how important it is to raise the level of information and involvement of all political parties in this process in just three years of membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2506	I thank the Prime Minister. Replications? The first of the deputies to report for the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2507	Thank you. Dear Mr Plenkovic, I'm glad you came to the Croatian Parliament to speak to us and actually briefing us about what's going on in Brussels. However, as far as I understand, Croatia is essentially just doing what Brussels requires, and I am sad that Croatia continues with the sanctions policy towards the Russian Federation, although these sanctions have little use but only economic damage that we are all witnessing. Also, measures such as introducing visas for Russian citizens have also proved to be counterproductive to our tourism. I'd like to look back on one more thing, you said that territorial integrity should be respected, so the Russians are supposed to blame for the crisis in eastern Ukraine, which I think is the wrong fact because in Eastern Ukraine, Russia has no military or police in it, nor does it work there. And as far as Crimea is concerned, Crimea is not being forced, it was the will of the people, the citizens of Crimea. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2508	A fellow representative to refer to what was in the speech and the presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2509	... He mentioned Mr Plenkovic is taking the EU's stance towards Russia because of the situation in Crimea. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] But in Crimea, not one bullet was fired there, the citizens of Crimea decided on their own in a referendum that they wanted to be part of Russia. As for the EU, we have seen how much it respects the integrity of territorial other countries and we have seen an occupation there in Afghanistan for 15 years as well as in Libya. It's all one horror and the whole refugee crisis has actually started in Brussels and Washington, not... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2510	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2511	Mr. Pernar, I must admit that I am very surprised that a Croatian representative has such rhetoric and views on such capital issues as relations with Russia and the situation in Ukraine. I don't know who in the Croatian Parliament after the experience of aggression in Croatia in 1991 could take this position with a little bit better information than yours when it comes to violations of international law, when it comes to non-compliance with bilateral agreements and when it comes to the annexation of the territory of another country. If this rhetoric you are now speaking here, dear colleague Pernar, applied to the Republic of Croatia then we would not have 56 thousand square kilometers today, then parts of the Republic of Croatia that are today an integral part of our territory would most likely not be part of our territory, which is something that you may not care about in your performances, but make sure that you are not the one who creates the foreign policy of the Republic, it is created by the Croatian government in collaboration with the President, and it will be responsible in accordance with international law and in accordance with European values. When it comes to the visa regime that you also mentioned, make sure that it has nothing to do with this context now, it was part of our accession negotiations when a member joining the Union accepts the acquis. And one of the EU's gains is visa policy towards third countries. It is true that this has led to some difficulties in terms of the number of tourists coming from Russia, either from Turkey, but therefore there are Croatian embassies, which is why there is co-operation with tour operators, with tourist agencies that can very well solve the problem that other EU member states have, and are also receiving tourists from those countries that need it. As far as these comments are concerned, I'll refer to them later.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2512	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2513	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, first of all, I welcome your presentation and I am pleased that this will become a practice, if possible in future exhibitions and information, to get some more detailed information on meetings of course adapted to the public or public debate. I am particularly pleased that trade agreements with Canada have been discussed and that our companies are able to move there very quickly without additional costs and extend their markets. I would also like to know whether the debate on other economic matters may have discussed energy policy since Croatia is very interested in this area and has open relations with a neighbouring country of Hungary, it is the INA MOL especially because here today your Minister, Mr Dobrović, announced the closure of the refinery in Sisak. I'd like you to refer to it, it's very important, it's hundreds of jobs in Sisak and I'm convinced tomorrow and in Rijeka. And tomorrow it's possible that our INA becomes just a dispatcher or a wholesale MOL. So it is very important that you impose this topic on your colleague Orban on the European Council and thus protect our production because it is not as important for us as Minister Dobrovic may be and I hope that you also care whether oil is produced in Croatian refineries and whether... create added value. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please read about it and protect the refinery in Sisak and those workers that this refinery in the future as announced by Minister Dobrovic does not close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2514	Thank you, Agent Maras. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2515	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. You were a minister and you went to the council as far as I know it, you know the technology of the work, you know the character of the debate that's being held there. Since the European Council's format is such that only heads of state and government are sitting at the table and with the President of the European Council, Turkish Commission President Juncker and Mrs Mogherini, as well as only a few associates. The reports I filed for you were a resume of debates that lasted more than 11 hours. It is not possible for me to convince you, in an exhibition like this, everything that some colleagues have exhibited there. However, when it comes to energy policy in this broader sense, it was not at this meeting that... Otherwise there wouldn't be time for all this other stuff I was talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I met on the sidelines briefly courteously with the Hungarian prime minister. We will arrange a special meeting that should be quality prepared in such a way as to include all resolution ministries and to touch on all issues that are important in the relations between Croatia and Hungary. The relationship between INA and MOL in this strategic oil company for Croatia is one of the biggest issues. Minister Dobrovic's statements, and I see that he later denied it, were obviously slightly mistranslated at least in the headlines of some portals. Therefore, the Croatian government has not yet formally or formally met, no discussions on refinery or informal, nor formal in this way have been held. What I did today, given this information on the transport of oil to Rijeka, so the river refinery, not the INA, I talked to the president of the INA administration, Zoltan Aldott, and agreed that next week the relevant representatives of the Croatian government's competent ministries discuss the current state of affairs with the INA administration. I am in contact with our colleagues in Sisak-Moslavina County and I want to meet the concern and I express concerns of the workers in the refinery and the Croatian Government will do everything to protect the interests of both the government and the state and the employees of the INA, especially in the Sisak refinery.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2516	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is a representative of Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2517	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, thank you, Prime Minister. My question is about Valonia in Belgium, can you specifically explain how the European Union will address this situation in Belgium and will there be an agreement between Canada and the European Union tomorrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2518	The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2519	... Is the microphone working? [[Specially enabled.]] It's working. I say, I've spoken to the Belgian Prime Minister Michel in detail. It is about the position of certain political parties in Valonia who, for their own reasons, make certain objections to the content of this agreement that could be heard not so much in the debate on the comprehensive agreement between the European Union and Canada, but in the process of negotiations that is parallel between the European Union and the United States. In Brussels, all the days we were there were also the Canadian Trade Minister who held talks with the European Commission, so we take care of it. Not even Belgium and even less Valonia is a subject to these negotiations. It is therefore being negotiated at European Union level. And the solution that is currently being sought is a solution that would satisfy several of the objections that are coming, so we can say from political parties in Valonia without going to change the content of the agreement itself, but to find a legal solution that would be sustainable and that would allow the valon authorities to give consent to the federal level in Belgium for the conclusion of this agreement. I believe that the capacity of a Belgian prime minister who otherwise has to be very sophisticated in a political sense to manage so much in the constitutional legal context of a complex country will be expressed and that this will not violate the international credibility of the European Union as actors in the conclusion of international agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2520	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is a representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2521	Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, I thank you for coming to the Croatian Parliament and introducing us to the meeting you attended, and this is a very positive step. I would also like to commend the fact that you have demanded greater transparency regarding the meaning of this trade agreement with Canada and getting to know the public and here we are sitting here in this House with the content of this agreement. And here I hope that before the ratification itself here in the Croatian Parliament that the public and we here who are parliamentary representatives will, too, be aware of the damage to the Croatian economy, agriculture and society as a whole. So I expect that what you have announced will happen and that we here as Parliamentarians will be better acquainted with the contract itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2522	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2523	In short, therefore, transparency in the negotiation of international contracts has two dimensions. One is a kind of political pedagogy and public formation that is necessary and important to demystify these negotiations. Secondly, it is that negotiators are left with a certain margin that it is not all in advance on the internet and that they can reach certain quality compromises through negotiations with the other side. What is important in the relations between Croatia and Canada I think there are clear interests of all our companies, our entrepreneurs who want to have simpler, easier and more quality access to the Canadian market. It is certain that the interest in investment in Croatia exists by Canadian partners as well. According to all information from competent ministries, Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian states can benefit only from such an agreement. I will give you an example of the EU Member States currently having a visa requirement from Canada, so they have an unequal treatment, and they have entered these negotiations with the goal of resolving the problem as well. Croatia fortunately solved the issue earlier so it did not pose any obstacle to giving our consent. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, otherwise, is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, when the time comes to explain the content of this agreement in front of the Croatian Parliament, will give a very detailed analysis of the trade between the potential benefits of this agreement and all that I have read and informed myself and see only the positive aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2524	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first club to come forward for discussion is the SDP Representatives' Club and, on their behalf, a representative of the Josko Klisovic club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2525	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. On behalf of the SDP Club, I welcome the Prime Minister and Minister Orepic and Stier as well as the practice of informing the Council about the meetings of the European Council. Sometimes the meetings of the European Council were held twice a year, but the challenges facing the EU have conditionaled on calling these meetings much more often, almost monthly. I therefore also welcome the announced desire and willingness of the Prime Minister to come to the Parliament each time after the meeting and inform the Parliament about the work of the European Council. Because European policy is no longer part of foreign policy it is the primary internal policy that directly affects citizens and the work of state institutions including the Croatian Parliament. But Mr. Prime Minister, do not experience information from the Croatian Parliament as information about what others said at the meeting. First of all, we are interested in the Croatian attitudes that you express on our behalf, and we need to see how the Parliament can contribute to the definition of such attitudes, make a contribution. Last week, the European Council was a struggle with failure, all over the agenda. In terms of migration, we have a shift of focus from the Balkan route to the mid-Mediterranean route despite warnings from the architects of the agreement with Turkey that the situation in Aleppo and Mozul as well as the one in Turkey is a time bomb that can escalate and explode at any moment and flood Europe with a new million migrants and refugees. In trade policy, we have the inability to share with Canada the same values and the ally in many matters with us a useful trade agreement at times when Europe needs growth and employment. In foreign policy, we have the inability to define a long-term strategy towards Russia because of the rapid deterioration of the situation in Syria, especially Aleppo, and the different interests of the Member States towards Russia itself. Unfortunately, every day the EU faces new failures and shows that it is in a growing crisis. And that's why passivity isn't an option. Working on the strength of the EU and not fulfilling Croatian interests is an option. We listened carefully to the Prime Minister who informed us about the course of the meeting of the European Council but we did not hear enough about Croatian positions because such important issues as migration, CETA, are possible to tighten sanctions on Russia, the situation in Syria and BREXIT. We are all aware of the challenges we have faced as the whole of Europe because of a large number of migrants who have been coming to the EU for more than a year on the Balkan route. We haven't heard from the government what her priorities are in migration management? We have one general sentence in the government programme and statements by its officials that they will rely on cooperation with other countries and participate actively in finding a European solution. But we do not know what the government's priorities are in finding this European solution. The priorities of the SDP government were well-known and were the basis and framework for all operational decisions and plans. These were three priorities to ensure the security of citizens and states, to deal with migrants in a humane way, with full respect for all their rights given to them by our legislation, European and international rights and a third priority was to avoid turning Croatia into a hotspot or a collection centre. All three priorities were fully met. Most citizens de facto didn't even feel migrants in their everyday lives. It's part of the eastern border. And the security of the state has never been questioned. I ask the Prime Minister whether this government has the same priority as the SDPs, and will they follow them consistently in the management of migrant movements and finding a common European solution to the migrant issue? I also ask how and with what abilities will Croatia engage in European efforts to stabilise areas that generate migration in particular in the Middle East and Africa? The Prime Minister said we will join the European Border and Coast Guard as I welcome but did not say how, in which way and with what capacity, Croatia has a reminder of the EU's longest external border. What does increased control at the EU's external borders for Croatia mean? It is mentioned in the conclusions of the European Council. The council should know something about that. Bulgaria and Romania's Schengen accession is further delayed due to the migrant issue. What is in this context with Croatian accession to Schengen? Whether the government supports the shift of the EU's focus from the Balkan route to Central Mediterranean, i.e. on migration from Africa. With the EU's full focus on the Balkan route, we have not been able to solve the problem of just being successful when the focus moves away. What does the government think about doing about it? The prime minister has informed us of the concept of flexible solidarity advocated by the member states of the Visegrad Group. So, on a voluntary basis, in accordance with your own capacities, you will contribute to resolving the immigrant issue by refusing to implement the set quotas agreed within the EU. But he did not tell us what the position of the Croatian government is about flexible solidarity, whether we support what V4 says or something else. Mr. Prime Minister, it is no longer enough to hide behind general formulations that the matter will be resolved through co-operation with states on the Balkan route and through a European solution. We need an unequivocal answer to questions raised here. With regard to the trade agreement with Canada, I am interested in how the government sees Valonia's refusal to agree to a contract, a region that has never raised the issue once, nor has it observed a Canadian treaty in the EU's Committee of Regions. And can one region that has no trade relations with Canada stop a trade contract that can benefit 500 million people. Canada has even accepted a balanced solution for investment courts that are highly sensitive to the public. Let us remind the EU and it has emerged as a community of Member States' economic interests, it has so far been a quality provider of Member States' trade interests. Does the EU have the ability to conduct a successful trade policy under the current conditions? The structural problems of decision-making and implementation have come to light and can hamper one of the most successful European policies that is the engine of European recovery, trade policy. This must change, or the EU will begin to skate into inadequacy. I wonder if the Government will launch a debate in Brussels on trade policy-making audits and mechanisms? Because what chance do contracts have with other countries when they don't pass this one with Canada with which we share the same system of values. A whole generation of trade agreements can come into question, and Croatia will not be better off without these contracts because in bilateral negotiations alone, with large trade partners, it is unable to impose solutions that suit it. Through a strong bloc, it is politically and economically such as the EU. I think the fear of a multinational who will come to the Croatian market and eat us too much, or too high, because these companies are already operating on the Croatian market. But Croatian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs especially operate very little on the US or Canadian market. They're too expensive, too complicated, too many barriers to be able to do profitable business in these markets. Therefore, such contracts are in the Union's interest and therefore the government must act within the EU to ensure a quality trade policy mechanism. We're all for transparency, I see the government is too. But what interests me is how the government plans to act in Croatia on transparency regarding trade agreements with Canada and... Strengthening sanctions on Russia, and the situation in Syria are also important issues for Croatia on the agenda of the European Council, especially given the interest of the Croatian economy in the Russian market, and the fact that the largest Croatian investment is in Syria – it's INA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Does the Government have a strategy for relations with Russia that includes a political and economic dimension? That's not what we heard today. And I am interested in the views of our Prime Minister in the debate on the European Council, which will be held at the debate on this issue in December. If the offensive against ISIL succeeds and the situation in Syria is stabilised, in which way the government intends to use European mechanisms to return INA's rich gas fields, or will leave them to MOL and thus strike a final blow to the INA. And it was about Brexit during dinner as we heard in Brussels. The decoupling procedure is expected to begin early next year. Has the government done an analysis of the impact of Brexit on Croatia? What attitudes will Croatia be representing, and is one of the EU agencies that has been working in the United Kingdom so far, for example, to move to Croatia? For example, the European Medicines Agency or the European Banking Authority. Their move to Croatia would certainly be a very good indicator of the success of the government's European policy. But it's not easy, we're aware of that. Dear Prime Minister, there are a lot of issues in the field of European policy of Parliament and the Croatian public's interest. These questions affect our work and our life, and they ask for an answer. I therefore hope that today we will start an intensive and continuous process of discussing them for the benefit of our citizens. Convince us that you have views and answers to key questions, because from the report submitted and your presentation we are not convinced of that. You can expect a constructive contribution from the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2526	I thank Representative Klisovic. The replica was reported by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2527	My colleague mentioned the meaning of the migrant crisis. Of course it is a problem not only of Croatia, but of the whole of Europe and beyond. However, the fact that Croatia, and you were the Deputy Minister, will better confirm this to me externally, the National Security Strategy is still benefiting from 2002 when we were neither a member of the EU nor NATO. The simple conditions that today are in the migration crisis both in Croatia and in the EU and the environment and our borders require a studio process, I say this as a soldier, means the defence of our borders, i.e. the preservation of our borders as a sovereign state in terms of the migration crisis. Today we have spaces like, Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonia which are empty spaces and of course Croatia must have a National Strategy in these conditions. We have a National Strategy until we have not been to NATO or the EU yet. This is understandable to you because you were at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and of course the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Internal Defence is connected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2528	Thank you. Replicate response, MP Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2529	Dear Mr. Bull, you are certainly right that these questions should be considered seriously and that is the only way we can make quality decisions. As for the so many times mentioned National Security Strategy, I must say that even after the meeting of former Prime Minister Milanovic with President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, the strategy was written. The government made it, and that text exists. But she was never allowed into the procedure because we entered an election campaign. And the National Security Strategy is actually one list of topics of greatest interest to one nation and is not exhausting only on defence and protection against aggression. And that is why I also find it wrong for the new government to announce that the Ministry of Defence will work such a single strategy because such a strategy must be as the inter-agency says is inter-resort and must be led by someone from the government. And the paper we put together as a draft would be a very good basis for further discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2530	I thank Representative Klisovic. The next club of MPs to report for the discussion is the SDSS Club and their representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2531	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome, on behalf of the SDSS Club, the decision of the Prime Minister to start his mandate in this way, which is that only a few days after the European Council was held, we have been informed of the debate, the conclusions and the policy directions which were the topics of the talks on the European Council. It is the best way to restore trust in the relationship between our policy and EU policy. This is the best way to strengthen the Croatian Parliament's powers in relation to European institutions, the European Parliament, the Commission, the Council and others. The openness on your part and the openness of the debate here, regardless of what opinion they have, how far or close to the positions most of them may have, is also an extremely important assumption of what is necessary, which is that Croatia has a democratic debate when it comes to European policy, that its most democratic institutions can participate in this. And you, by your coming and your exposure, Mr. Prime Minister, have shown that you will, and I am sure and insist on it, contribute to that with your government's policy and your personal policy. As regards the topics discussed where the obvious issue of migration was one of the central themes, it is possible, of course, to address the European continent's issues, above all, the relations between the EU and the Russian Federation on which there are few words in the report that we have received, but that is probably because the talks were more informal than formal. I'll focus on open issues when it comes to migration issues. Since the mid-'70s, the last century of the 20th century and to this day, the number of refugees in the world has increased from some less than 8 million to 42 million. And of that, only in the last few years in Syria is it wastes some 6 million of what a refugee outside the country, making displaced or exiled persons within the country itself. These are dramatic figures that show the extreme instability of today's world that has lasted for decades, almost half a century in which the issue of European politics is of enormous importance. And strengthening European policy on solving crisis reasons or crisis hotspots or conflicting reasons that result in such a dramatic increase in the number of refugees in the world of enormous importance. It is particularly important when it comes to areas directly related to European security. And a good part of these crisis hotspots are directly about European security. It is precisely because in the past 10 years a significant part of the source of refugee crises, crisis hotspots, war, conflict or what we will call them actually delivering its consequences to Europe. Since European policy obviously still needs to strengthen its foreign policy, it is not only the elements of solidarity when dealing with the consequences of refugees, but also the elements of strengthening policies that will reduce the differences that exist in Member States' policies, which, of course, necessarily reflect that individual members have to reason differently as to how they should participate in solidarity with the consequences of the refugee crisis and what reaches the EU's space and the area of direct EU neighbourhood or countries that are in the accession process. It is absolutely certain that the decision to establish a European Border and Coast Guard is an extremely important decision, a significant decision on how to deal with the consequences of the refugee crisis, the fight against human trafficking, the fight against those who lead refugees into very deadly and deadly circumstances on different seas that touch the European mainland, and at the same time it is extremely important to address the overall security issues of the EU's and EU member states. Your support for this as our representative is no doubt that Parliament and Parliament will welcome it at least in response to this club on whose behalf I speak. What is serious is the fact that we have complete uncertainty about how many refugees we can meet again because we do not see the functioning of the mechanisms even of crisis interventions, even what we call conflict management or occasional crisis resolution. Unfortunately, we are dealing with refugee issues from Syria, and in fact, the space to create refugees from other countries is only expanding because the conflict has not only within the Syrian but also regional dimensions with global motives or global actors. And it is so important, Mr. Prime Minister, if not today, that you or your Minister of the Interior or the Foreign Affairs, be on the tide, or on the committees, to inform the representatives of what data we have at our disposal, what dynamics and what perspective we can expect that crisis elements that continue to grow when a refugee problem is brought back to the territory of the Republic of Croatia, its neighbourhood and, of course, which are possible expectations from the European Council and the European Commission under such possible circumstances according to the Republic of Croatia. As for international contracts, as well as when the European Border and Coast Guard is in the process of modernising trade protection instruments, which have resulted in difficulties in negotiations on significant agreements with either Canada or the United States, it is extremely important that we stand at the point of view that the experience is not regulated, insufficiently regulated, globalisation process for the creation of trade contracts cannot be good not only for the whole of the EU but it cannot be good for our country either. For this reason, insisting on the clear criteria of regulatory mechanisms in these contracts such as the experience of reaching a jurisdictional agreement in disputes as we see in the case of Canada, an agreement is achieved which is important because there may be experience for other open issues when it comes to jurisdiction in dispute settlement, in some other contracts where there is no agreement on it, it is extremely important. But it is also extremely important to maintain and maintain the values of the social, economic and other policies that make Europe a Europe regardless of how seriously they are tested today or are already greatly damaged in certain areas because of the neo-oliberal pre-dominant policies present on the European soil itself. But still these policies make Europe a Europe and a distinct and different and better place and a fairer place and a more orderly place and a more orderly place than some other places in the world. For this reason, we trust that with your conspiracy, and with the opinions you will hear here, and I am almost certain that there are not many clubs that would not talk if not more explicitly than I say on behalf of my club, you will represent this kind of attitude that I represent. Not because we are Eurocentric, but because after these 25 or more, almost half a century of experience we see both the positive and the negative consequences of this process. The statements that we have heard here and from the Presidents of the European Parliament and the President of the Commission in this regard encourage and support us in an even stronger advocate of this kind of position. As far as the coincidence that your first job after you received trust you and your Government here in this House was going to the European Council of Coincidence that your first arrival in Parliament was also linked to a report from the European Council. I would like to interpret not only as a coincidence, but as well as the true commitment of you and your government and what I feel that most citizens and most MPs want here in the Croatian Parliament, which is strengthening Croatian presence in European politics. And what our young colleague has said to you is that we are not only bringers of messages and recipients of messages from Brussels but that to the extent that our forces allow us to do so, as did your predecessors to your strengths that you will do everything possible for our country in European institutions to start building its place and begin to be as powerful and more present as possible in policy-making. And even with such sensitive issues and important issues as enlargement policy and such as eastern neighbourhood policy, so above all relations between Europe and the Russian Federation but also the People's Republic of China. Not only because of the economic interest as it is apostrophe here, but I will end it for safety. Peace in Europe, regardless of Nobel Prize, will not be possible unless we take care of it. And if we are squeezed between geopolitical confrontations in which we, like Europe and Croatia, are a decision in the referendum and a decision of this House and its entire political elite with all the good and bad sides of these decisions. Unless we take as active and visionary a role as possible when it comes to the security of the European continent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2532	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Pupovac. Next up for debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, a respected counterpart, Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2533	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister and Minister. The Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government in European Affairs determines that at least once a year, the Prime Minister shall submit a report to the Parliament on the meetings of the European Council held. It is also foreseen that after each meeting of the European Council, the Prime Minister shall submit a report on the meetings of the European Council under discussion. The practice so far, however, was that discussions on European policies should not be approached sufficiently focused and systematically. For this reason, I am pleased that in the new meeting of the Croatian Parliament and in the mandate of the new Government, after the first meeting of the European Council, which was attended by the Croatian Prime Minister, the Parliament decided to report on the main topics of the meeting. As president of the European Affairs Committee in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, I felt a lack of interest in European topics but also the need to understand the importance of European policies in the social, economic and political life of the Republic of Croatia. I would therefore like to particularly welcome the introduction of the Parliament's reporting practice on the meeting of the European Council, and I hope that this will also mean more involvement of the members of the Government and in the work of the Committee on European Affairs. As we had the opportunity to hear on the European Council this time, three main topics were discussed: migration, trade and other global and economic issues and external relations. Let me briefly refer to each of them on behalf of the HDZ Club. As far as migration is concerned, the HDZ Representatives' Club supports the return of Schengen with the protection of external borders, which is also highlighted as the goal of the Slovak presidency. In this context, the operationalisation of the European Border and Coast Guard is also very important. The security aspect of this issue must not be ignored at all. This is why we welcome Croatia's continued participation in Frontex operations as well as support for the new agency. The principle of solidarity is in the very foundations of the European Union and we believe that it must, of course, remain, with full respect for international, European and national legislation. The suppression of migration pressure and the resolution of the source causes of migration are crucial for their control and reduction, which is why negotiations with third countries are important including five priority African countries: Niger, Nigeria, Mali, Ethiopia and Senegal. The issue of migration will remain an ongoing topic for months to come, and we believe that Croatia should have a precisely defined view on this matter that will primarily protect Croatian national interests, the interests of Croatian citizens but also contribute to the implementation of a common European solution in line with European values. The HDZ Club supports a trade policy aimed at ensuring more free and modern international trade, we understand the increased public interest in the Free Trade Agreement with Canada. And for this reason, we believe that it is crucial to continuously sensitize and communicate with the public in order to remove the ambiguities and potential concerns of citizens regarding the content of the agreement itself, as well as other similar agreements. We also support the idea of modernising trade protection instruments, thus protecting the common market and consumers. As for other issues, we welcome the objectives of the European Fund for Strategic Investments, we believe that they should continue to work and improve. We would like to pay particular attention to ensuring that the investment of the main financial measures is evenly distributed across Member States. Currently, the largest beneficiaries of the fund as we have had the opportunity to hear from the five largest Member States and the smaller Member States of the European Union so far have a limited choice of funding. It's final. Croatia is a member of the European Union and the Croatian Parliament as the most representative body should be more active and more engaged in discussing and informing European policies because they shape the lives of Croatian citizens on a daily basis. The Lisbon Treaty gave national parliaments additional powers in the field of European affairs thus increasing their importance in the EU legislative process. In this context, among other things, the Croatian Parliament is also responsible for protecting the principle of subsidiarity in EU legislative acts proposals. So, full of support for this initiative. We believe that it is really welcome, we consider it in a certain way and how an invitation for representatives to participate actively in public debates on European topics. This may also be an invitation to committees to discuss European topics as closely as possible. It is particularly important and I would like to point out once again the role of the Committee on European Affairs, which has the opportunity to participate in the legislative process. This is something that we have just begun to discover in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and at this meeting of the Croatian Parliament and of this Committee on European Affairs certainly to deepen Croatian participation in the legislative process, that Croatian interests of course are well articulated in the dialogue with the Croatian economy, with Croatian science, with Croatian agriculture. So everything we can articulate as policies through the Croatian Parliament, through the Croatian Committee on European Affairs. I think it is necessary and it is one exercise that should mark four years of this Croatian Parliament. I call on everyone once again to participate actively in discussions on European topics, I believe that, in due course, we may be discussing Croatian foreign policy at the plenary session and it is time for the Croatian Assembly and the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament to return to the dignity that he deserves. As for this report, the HDZ Club welcomes him and we will give strong support to the continuation of this practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2534	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Jandrokovic. We have one replica, dear colleague Mr. Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2535	Mr. Plenkovic said on behalf of the HDZ Club he welcomed the return of the Schengen. And that's basically fine. However, it reminded me of a very important document in the context of European asylum policy and in the context of the Schengen, which is the Dublin Protocol. I am interested in whether HDZ and whether the Government are in favour of full application of the Dublin Protocol, which simply means when a migrant comes from third countries, therefore not an EU member on your territory and you are the first country of entry, you must register it, and then that person can return to your country again if he goes to another EU country. So is the Dublin Protocol something to insist on or should we insist on changing it, given that it is not calculated for the mass migrations we have faced, but for individual migrations, so people who come individually? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2536	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for this replica. Just one correction, Mr. Jandrokovic said on behalf of the club. So we have a reply to the replica. Did you address the president of the Croatian government or our distinguished colleague who spoke on behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2537	I apologize and spoke to a colleague who spoke on behalf of the club Mr. Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2538	You don't have an answer. Okay, thanks. Next up for debate on behalf of HNS's Club of Representatives, HSU reported an important colleague, Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, as well as all my predecessors, I most sincerely welcome and support this practice that the Croatian Parliament is being reported on the meetings of the European Council. This is good for a number of reasons, not only to inform lawmakers, but also to discuss these topics through a debate in the Assembly de facto in front of a broad Croatian public who unfortunately can only hear negative things about the EU and the EU-related topics lately, and very rarely something that is really being discussed and the problems that are really being addressed at that level. As was evident from what the Prime Minister has been saying here even though it is European topics and it is also about eclectic Croatian topics. Probably because, not only of our membership in the EU, but probably because of our geopolitical position. All these topics relate very directly to Croatia and this debate in Parliament I think it gives us a chance to start talking about some of these topics in the Croatian public in the Croatian context of our policies. Here, for example, we often mention the national security strategy that the irony of fate just wrote by Josko Klisovic, but for a number of different reasons in the end did not go into circulation and procedure. However, given the topics that have been discussed on the European Council, I think that what is also of equal importance should be taken into account and discussed is a strategy, a migration strategy. Migration has also been as almost standard for at least two years on the agenda of the European Council and, of course, for a reason. One part of us, and the European Council and European institutions seem to be making the same mistake, which is that we are trying in the same pot, in the same package talking about migration and the migration crisis and the refugee crisis. I think it's two really different things that they require, which, of course, overlap in some of their appearance forms, but they require each of their strategies and require each of their instruments of prevention or management. In one case, I'd say it's really an extreme crisis situation. This is when it comes to refugees and the crisis in the Middle East, as well as in sub-Saharan Africa, which was obviously more likely to be spoken on this Council because of the strong pressure of Italy because of this Eastern European or Balkan route for some time the Mediterranean route was neglected, and Italy experienced this as a lack of sufficient support and enough serious access to the role of Italy and the pressure that the refugee crisis represents for Italy, and it began to talk again about that route. However, we in Croatia actually had a once-a-time migration strategy developed by the MUP and the MUP certainly has a lot to say about the migration strategy. But that's necessary, but not enough. In terms of demographic crisis, a serious migration strategy for Croatia is largely part of the response to the crisis. Hundreds of thousands of people passed through Croatia only in the autumn of 2015. Among them are people with the most different qualifications our economy needs. We have not been able and in a position to somehow combine the management of the refugee crisis and at the same time think of a potentially different approach that is not, it does not come from the concept of the fortress of Europe, Europe that will defend itself against these terrible people who come from all sides. And there may be only Chancellor Merkel who deserved a big political beating, but de facto she probably did Germany a serious favor in the medium and long term, recognised the possibility that with demographic problems and the demographic crisis shared practically everything except perhaps Scandinavian, European states combined and the way to manage the refugee crisis. However, refugee crises are, of course, related to the military hotspots in this case in Europe in the first order of war in the Middle East and require a certain geopolitical and political engagement of world scales, but are foreseeably final. So they have some of their own deadlines even in this terrible situation that we are now in when we do not know exactly how and when it will end. But in principle, they have their own deadline. Migration is a lasting phenomenon, immigration from the poor southern neighbourhood of Europe probably won't stop in any foreseeable future. And the question is how to manage these migrations wisely. It is a big issue for the EU. However, I think the big question for us is precisely in view of our geopolitical position. We're the second line. And in this respect, a smart rational migration strategy in the context of what Europe and the European Council are talking about is also very important for Croatia, very important and unusually important. I must say that I am proud that during the refugee crisis, Croatia was neither racist nor isolationist, nor disorganised where people would wander the parks and the streets of the country. We responded well to that one tsunami to say either the immediate blow of a large number of people. However, I think that we should have a good national debate on how to manage the crisis when it comes to it for years on the European Council, and on the other hand, on the other hand, the lasting pressure that migration for Europe will certainly mean in any foreseeable future. Two concepts of Europe, a Europe fortress, so a lot of police at the border and no one to get through is one model view. Migration management is second. Therefore, the simple view that migration will happen and should be managed rationally and wisely by others. Of course, the protection of external borders needs to work, of course, and the Coast Guard is at the very end of the process another element of Europe's joint action, which I think is positive in this regard. However, it is irrational to assume that Europe's fortress can function. Therefore, if we are not to be dramatically shocked and surprised and even in the near future, I think it is very important to plan for this second approach. As far as the trade agreement with Canada is concerned, of course every trade agreement should be watched by the Sui Genis. Like that one, not like any other. And I think that the trade agreement with Canada has fallen somewhat because many have observed it in the context of the TTIP, so a much more controversial trade agreement with the United States that is on a very long stick right now. Canada, as for the standard, certainly does not lag behind Europe in any respect, including the standard of civil freedom. Croatia, if anyone has positive experience with free trade, our exports, our GDP, our industrial production has grown ever since we entered the EU and after we opened that market. Of course that means you have to be competitive. But in my opinion, it's a minimum of decency to its own citizens. And according to your own citizens, you must produce competitive products and offer competitive products, therefore a decent price and decent quality. If anyone in this respect has an interest in opening such a market for Croatia which, of course, bilaterally would never be able to negotiate, it is us. Therefore, this trade agreement with Canada, as I said, should be seen as what it is, an agreement with Canada, not an agreement with the United States, is another issue, and it will probably come to a turn when one quite another Parliament is sitting here. A brief comment still on two countries that are often mentioned, which are not members but are very important partners, partners or rivals if you want the EU. One is Turkey and the other is the Russian Federation. As far as Turkey is concerned, it is said little at this point, although it is clear to all of us that the whole refugee crisis is largely produced or created due to the absence of cooperation between the EU and Turkey. Turkey made it very clear long before there was a refugee crisis as much as it costs when they had 500 thousand and a million and a half refugees and then two and a half and a half and so on. They said we don't need anything but it costs 8 billion euros. And that was de facto their request plus visa liberalisation which I don't think should be a problem. And as far as the EU's approach is concerned, there are clear conditions that they must meet. But Turkey should not be ignored now that the whole migration debate has moved towards sub-Saharan Africa, Turkey with a situation in Syria and Iraq that should not be ignored as a potentially inevitable EU partner if it wants to deal with the Middle East refugee crisis. Once, Europe made that mistake and paid it with over a million people, which is the least, and most of all, the de facto of the EU's unification has just been produced by this refugee crisis. Finally, relations with the Russian Federation since I no longer have time to hold them for another occasion, but in conclusion, I would like to underline the fact that I said at the beginning let us use this initiative to report to Parliament on European councils in order to start our own national debates on policies that are de facto of politics and Croatia, not just the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2540	I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a esteemed colleague, Mr. Zeljko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2541	Dear colleagues, I have kept listening to these discussions happening in the EU, but I think one gray zone is not covered here, is it a cultural issue. Like this, we'd all be doing something with other people's money. How's that? We're the suburbs of London, maybe by population, and now with brixite, we see that cultural issue a few months later we have six thousand attacks on the Poles, one dead, one man died. Has anyone ever asked the average German what he thinks about this situation, the one who pays taxes, and when he's going to get a heartburn because with the Brexit, I think there's $17 billion in the burden going down on these refugees that are coming now. There's a new wave of refugees running away from climate change and we have to get involved in it, of course. And it needs a collective strategy but it's a cultural issue that we keep talking about these floscule humanism, pluralism, multiculturalism, at the same time, if you're looking at the genealogy of this '93 essay written by Mr. Huntington, there was one in that essay, a statement by a Muslim cleric from India who said this, the greatest threat of the West will come from Magreb to Pakistan. What do we have today? We have wars that cannot be won, e.g. Afghanistan doesn't have any lessons learned, it's already been fighting there for centuries, and I would say the same, don't forget you have countries like Switzerland where it's determined that the modern state has there fort those hills that God gave them, have an army where every military official and there everything is arranged by plebiscite. And we're the sovereign state we're not... none of these to say we hardly paid for our independence and that's where we took care of half a million refugees. ... encourage words like racism,... etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2542	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Mr. Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2543	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that Turkey did not wage wars in Iraq in any way, nor did it, neither in Afghanistan nor the Turkish army, except for its very limited activities in Syria. I don't understand how Turkey can be guilty of the refugee crisis when it's clear who made the invasions on both Iraq and Libya, and Afghanistan and ultimately Mrs Pusic if I'm not mistaken you're the ones who sent weapons to the Islamists in Syria, Mrs Pusic, you forgot that, and you blame Turkey for the crisis. I think it's a little double-faced at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2544	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2545	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, first you'll get to know the facts a little bit, and then discuss it. This may sound convenient to you, but it has nothing to do with facts. So as far as Turkey is concerned, of course, that the lack of cooperation between Turkey and the EU has caused or resulted if you want to end up in a refugee crisis. There were over 2.5 million refugees in Turkey. I spoke to refugees who came to Croatia in the fall of 2015, and of course my colleagues and then the interior minister were much more than I, no one, absolutely no one came directly from Afghanistan from Syria or from Iraq. All came from refugee camps or from a stay of several months, some years in Turkey. And I witnessed meetings since 2012 where Turkey asked for help, asked for financial assistance to take care of these refugees, all patted them on the shoulders and didn't give them that help until the crisis broke out. So in this reflection of the refugee crisis in Europe, co-operation between Europe and Turkey was crucial and did not happen in time and the way it could have been prevented. And as for your weapons in Syria, as for your colleague Pernar, get some sleep, I don't think it has anything to do with your brain.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2546	I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Mr. Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2547	Thank you. So in your presentation, you mentioned the management of migration as one of the other models in which we can oppose the potential wave of refugees. I don't know if you mean that Croatia approves of asylum on a professional basis, something that they did in Germany, so you kept those they needed, and those who didn't need to return them to where they registered for the first time as refugees, did you mean your consciousness about these desert parts of our country about the fact that the political elite so far were unable to organise the most basic life in one of the most beautiful and wealthy parts of our planet, so that we, from the ranks of refugees, should generate ourselves what we need. So I think this is one of the failed ways to lead asylum policies, and if there is a need for professionals of any kind in Croatia, then I don't think we need to see whether or not they are sought in asylum seekers, but we can very simply approve that they are imported by the necessary workforce which is not approved by the Republic of Croatia today, which is deficited in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2548	I thank my esteemed colleague Lackovic for his replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2549	So you cannot force anyone to stay or seek asylum in a country and in Croatia more than 650 thousand people who went through Croatia from 15.9 to the end of 2015, a minimum number of people asked for asylum. So it's not something where you can say you're gonna stay, and you're gonna go. But if conditions are created that some people want to stay, that they have the opportunity to stay, and also for the people that we need profiles, then there's a certain probability, but that should be planned, that policy should be run. I'm not saying that we ran it because we were caught up in this whole situation that came out of nowhere. But now that we know that she's very likely in some form to come on a long term, then that's one policy that can be run. It doesn't just mean qualifications, it means that people want to stay and have ways to live there, that they can integrate, that they can function, that's one possibility that's coming to us. We cannot hold anyone against his will even when the European Union sometimes expects us to.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2550	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mrs. Pusic, for her reply to the replica. The next one was answered by Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2551	Thank you very much. Ms. Pusic very rightly said and pointed out the importance of a migration strategy for quality decision-making in this area. It also pointed out the importance of the National Security Strategy as one of the roof strategies from which sectoral strategies such as the Migration Strategy are derivated. What I want to say is that the draft I mentioned, the National Security Strategy, is neatly arranged in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and is in the archives. And if it is intended to reactivate the work on the creation of the Strategy, please the Minister, i.e. I propose that he consult the current text, given that it is written from the perspective of the protection of national and national interests rather than from a party perspective. He... 10 fundamental risks to our national security and give some answers to this and then these risks are further worked out by sectoral strategies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2552	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for his replica. Thank you very much. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Mr. Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2553	Dear colleagues, Pusic, you mentioned a very important thing, which is that the European Union has made one failure to ignore early calls from Turkey to join a resolution or at least to facilitate the refugee crisis that it has most endured with more than 2 and a half million refugees who have received and cared for in its territory for years. Here is the fact that Mr Stier is also here, and I would like to remind you that the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey have very sincere, open and friendly relations for 25 years. And Turkey sees us as an honest friend, but on the other hand, and the country that last joined the EU, and I would say it on the most rigid terms or the most demanding terms, because all the negotiations that they are conducting or will lead to the future, and I hope that they will be opened and accelerated because the key mistake of Brussels was closing the door with these negotiations, which enabled the strengthening of retrograde currents in Turkey will actually go much easier using Croatian experience through all these stages. I also call on the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs to try to take advantage of the fact that among 27+1 EU members, we are practically in the most qualitative relations with Turkey to help ensure that the dialogue between Brussels and Ankara is continued and that the migration crisis and also the abolition of the visa regime, as well as many other issues from which we also benefit, not only our tourism but also our trade level, in order to achieve this progress. I think the proactive role of Zagreb and Croatia in this matter can help both the European Union and Turkey in better understanding, the opening of multi-communication channels and in a constant reminder that commitments should be taken and met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2554	I thank my esteemed colleague, Richembergh. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Mrs Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2555	Thank you very much. I will use the right of reply to say and refer to another fact, namely the statement by the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, which is that our policy will be to establish Southeast Europe as a region of cooperation. Both in relations with Turkey and in relations with other Southeast European countries that have a European perspective, we have used a centre of excellence established within the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs which brings together our heads to say so, so people who know something and participated in the process of joining or implementing European standards and models in Croatia. And I'm taking this opportunity to appeal to you to use and strengthen them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2556	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mrs Pusic. We're going to the next club. On behalf of the Club of Representatives for the debate, the Club of Representatives of the HDS, HSLS, Mr. Professor Goran Dodig, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2557	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Ministers, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today I feel like a parliamentary representative for the first time because for the first time we are having a serious, reasoned and for the first time I have the impression that we are talking in a way that we are not in the party trenches, but that we are talking about the problems that concern all of us and who are really serious and who are worthy of discussion in this Croatian Assembly. That's why I thank everyone. I thank the Prime Minister for coming to this House and I don't really know if it is, is he aware that in this way he has given rise to this House, as has already been said, that this Parliament and many of us have made it, that many of us have created the sense of usefulness and seriousness that suits this House. I am to be quite honest with myself as a great skeptic by entering the EU and I am still that, I am not a great skeptic but I am aware of the reality, I am aware of the fact that as a small few countries, Croatia has no great opportunities without entering such a large and strong association as the EU. And I'm aware of the fact that it's possible to talk here about what the Prime Minister was talking about in principle but specific issues. It is neither the time nor the opportunity to de-polmise with everything Mr. Prime Minister has said but I am grateful that he came for the first time and presented to this House what is happening in one of the European institutions and gave us the opportunity to discuss it. That fact alone is enough for me and my club to back him up and say we're behind what he's saying. And I hope that in the future we will also discuss certain problems quite concretely when it comes to the policy that is happening in the EU. The fact is that the EU does not react or would like to react uniquely to certain problems, and that is all understandable, but this results in the fact that we also have to react in a way and that is where Prime Minister Plenkovic opened up for us, we must react in a way that takes care of Croatian interests as well. And it seems to me that he has paved the way for us to really discuss it in a way that is not fitting to one serious parliament, especially since we have recently heard statements that nothing in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government is happening but in public it has been said that someone else is deciding on all this outside of this Parliament and outside the Croatian government. So thank you again for coming here and thank you for opening this opportunity to talk. You've opened three topics today that deserve each, they're not random here, they're not talking about it by accident, they're not talking about the migrant crisis. We have different views here about the migrant crisis, but I'm starting to assume that no one who talks about it is talking about it in a way that against those poor people who run from the war of affected space, to run from poverty, to run from danger, that they've had enough of everything they've experienced there. However, we see others defend themselves. I don't generally advocate a single model here because I don't know, honestly, I don't know what would be best. If we're talking to the humanitarian rights position then we really need to open the door for everyone, if we're talking to the position of sociological change that's going to happen, then it's a second position, if we're talking to security positions, that's a third position. We have experience with refugees, we have experience which means being exiled and of course we can't throw it out of our consciousness from our relationship with people who are in trouble. But we have experience and what it means is a change in mentality, a change in sociological relations, social relations, a change in the psychology of the society we are in, in which we live, and we have to take care of it. So any debate on this must be complete, thorough, and in the most serious way possible, it must be told. So I'm not saying I know the answer, the solution is very difficult to find. We have a situation where the most prosperous countries today introduce a new army, we have a situation where the Swedes introduce an army, which is why, we have a situation where the Swiss who have been quite open were the third in the number of personal weapons in the world. So nothing is an accident. I don't advocate it as a model to get along. And that is why I am talking about the migrant crisis and that the EU should have a single policy I absolutely agree with. I agree that everything must be done in the EU, that the EU has the credibility of a serious partner in the negotiations. This also applies to the migrant crisis, no matter what counterpart Pernar listens to, no matter what, we can get along and disagree with guilt, we can talk about who's responsible for it, look for the causes of it, but we need to take care of what kind of solution we offer, what kind of solution we offer. I am convinced that in the coming periods we will know to find a balance between the Croatian interests and the EU's interest and to turn the story upside down or the order upside down between the interests of these poor people and the political interests of both the EU and Croatia. These people are really in trouble. And that's why we can't just look at people in a certain way without emotion at everything that's going on, and also at a rational approach to it. This is a small part that we're going to have our sea forces to prevent, I think, primarily, drowning these people, but the problem is much more complex, and I don't think it's going to last for the next ten months, that it's going to be a topic, that it's going to be a problem that's going to be very difficult for us for years. The second issue is economic policy and trade policies, i.e. an agreement with Canada. It scares me that we, I don't know what kind of agreement it is. I can assume given the Canadian state I am, such as Canada and agree with Mrs Pusic that this is probably a big difference between this trade agreement with the United States. But I'm afraid of the fact that there was so much mysticism about the content of the agreement with the United States. I'm afraid of the fact that there's nothing to know about it. I'm afraid of the fact I read in the paper, maybe it's wrong. A colleague of Borzan's when she talked about all the problems she had to go through and see how he, all those obstacles she had to get into the European Parliament, came up with some details of that agreement she couldn't or couldn't. I know that she couldn't even copy or take anything, but I just don't know why elemental things wouldn't be known in advance. And the third thing, I find it interesting that this Belgian policy, that a small province is blocking all this, that the Valons, if I'm not mistaken, are blocking it. Why? Is he trying to show that they still decide whether it's just a game for the public. We can decide something, but we have to decide it, know why we decided to do it. By joining the EU, we had to be aware that we are transferring some of our sovereignty to the EU, but the question to what extent and how much. That's the question. The issue of measures is the central issue of all issues not only on this problem but on the other hand. I'd like to see what protection mechanisms these are if we knew what protective mechanisms they're dealing with. We know that in America, for example, when it comes to food products, that the standards used there, about food regularity, about the amount of pesticides that are different than in Europe. Is this the case with the Canada deal? I don't know that. Is it genetically modified food that can be imported and so on? So, I'm not suggesting anything, but I'd like to talk about it in the future. I think the possibility is open here to really talk seriously about these problems, to give this Parliament support, to give useful solutions for both the EU and Croatia. I don't want to bother you anymore, there's no time. But thank you very much for coming here, for letting us talk this way, and for the first time I'm seeing the people who stayed here as parliamentary representatives who really want to deal with the serious problems of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2558	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Dodig. We've got a few replicas on display. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Mr. Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2559	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Dodig, I thank you for these words that you referred especially to at the beginning and these at the end. I was just about to say that the way I see politics, my vision of politics. That's what I used to talk to politicians who were already experienced and didn't really agree that politics should be like that. I was saying that pre-election campaign is a means of getting into politics, to show that we are better than others, to show that we are better than others, to show what we have to say, what we want to do. And after the election, when we succeed in achieving certain results, then we become all colleagues and that we should work together for a better Republic of Croatia. We are primarily tasked here to change laws, to be constructive, not to be sucked against each other in trenches. I didn't get the impression that we're in the trenches, but that we like to replicate just for the sake of replication, that's what I've experienced. And I think that this way of communication actually contributes to the less efficientness of our work. So I have to repeat once again that my vision of politics is to be constructive, help with solutions that are not well defined enough, and in this way I will behave all the time while I'm here with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2560	I thank my esteemed colleague Alexic for his replica. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2561	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, distinguished MPs and MPs. I am pleased in front of the "Let's Change Croatia" party that this is a new practice in the Croatian Parliament to discuss these topics. But here I would agree with Dr. Dodig that this practice to Mr. Prime Minister would be even better combined with, so besides reporting what's going on there, and what we can't read. So with our active contribution in terms of where Croatia is, where are our positions. Well, here's what you said earlier, Mr. Dodig. 27-and-a-half states are ready to sign this deal with Canada. Why isn't Valonia, that little part of Belgium, the province? Well, here's the thing, if nothing else, it's one of those attitudes, it's us. Why aren't we up for it? Well, I'll tell you what, so we're waiting. So let's show, Mr. Prime Minister, you will be much better able to represent Croatian interests if you communicate with us in Parliament like this, or you will refuse to accept or accept or have behind you or have no support. This is how you will affirm Croatia because in the EU, which is an incomplete state and I propose and support Dr. Dodiga was obviously going to say that in this Parliament finally during the next two months there is a parliamentary debate on the trends of the situation in Croatia and our position, because beware we have disintegration processes strong, we have this Visegrad group that plays someone else is increasingly oriented to another policy, etc. As far as Croatia's safety is concerned, she is at risk. Our limit is long, it is soft, in many places hollow. We're insecure, the cold war never stopped, the hot one's getting closer and closer. 11 MPs of 751 are in the Europarliament. Therefore, consider reintroducing maybe a military term of three to six months and other measures. That should be discussed in this House. We can't be caught in a situation. This is a very dangerous situation in this part of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2562	Thank you to my esteemed colleague, Lovrinović. The next call came through, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2563	Thank you very much. Professor Dodig, you are the most experienced, or one of the most experienced politicians, i.e. I'll say fighter for independent Croatia. As a student in '71. You fought for the independent politics of the Republic of Croatia in the former Yugoslavia, separated from Belgrade. And indeed your words should be heard because you have experienced and experienced free Croatia. Many of your colleagues in those tortures they've been through have not experienced. Of course I would agree with you when you said you were skeptical and that you are now skeptical primarily that you were on your way into the EU. Of course, I was against joining the EU, not against the EU or Europe, but the way and the model in which we entered the EU. At that time, both the media and the public debate and the entire Parliament were for EU accession until the election day when the EU's 40 per cent was decided was a date, so even 50% of the people didn't come out. And what was that about? Just because of what's going on right now. At that time, people and Parliament were not familiar with the situation of all the problems. We don't have to agree on politics, but the fact is that this is the way it talks, opinions or opinions. We show this House what we said was the center of political power. Decisions. That however, the parliamentary representatives have some weight. I know you feel it well because I know you're a sovereign in the sense that we've lost part of the sovereignty is... The EU. [[You don't understand.]] And I accept this your truly commendable and well-meaning direction of this government that goes to present itself in this way regardless of whether individuals or most of us agree. Generally, Croatian politics must have a stand separate from Vienna, Belgrade, Bruxella or Washington or Moscow. But in this community, it must work how it works, both in Parliament and in the European Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2564	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Bull. Replication response, dear colleague Mr. Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2565	It's not a replica, it's just a little addition to this. My colleague Bulj has given me the opportunity to say the following to Mr. Prime Minister to address him. Your strength in European institutions will come from this House. We will do this to discuss these problems strengthen your position and nothing else. So anything you say here, I ask you to understand well-intentioned, both you and the ministers. So it is not for anyone to replicate anything, to cause problems, but simply to know that behind you stands the Croatian Parliament, regardless of what you are responsible for foreign policy together with the president, but general awareness in society about a particular problem is important. And in this way I think it can be much stronger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2566	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Dodig. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Mr. Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2567	I didn't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2568	Oh, no? Next for the replica, esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2569	Dear Vice President, thank you. Mr. Dodig here is after you once thanked the Prime Minister for allowing the debate on the EU to be apostrophe of the Living Wall so we don't listen to your debate. We listen to your debate on the number of weapons in Switzerland and on the military deadline in Sweden and on the migrant and immigrant crisis, however, these discussions are not a priority for the Croatian public at this time. The Croatian public, for example, is much more interested in why almost 200 thousand people have moved out of Croatia since their entry into the EU and from the workings of Croatia. Let's just say in Germany, 120,000 workers have been able to do so since they joined the EU. And why the population of Croatia melts on a daily basis just as it melts, say, ice in the Arctic area, and we are now experiencing a real demographic disaster and Croatia is slowly but certainly slipping that they will soon have the same population as at the time of the Jelačić bank. Which means that the overall development over the last 170 years will be annulled by such a development of the situation. So here we appreciate and sympathise with the residents of Sweden and others but I think the public would be much more interested if here today the prime minister had opened a debate on so these citizens who leave the buses of Croatia day and night without the prospect of achieving a future in their own country. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2570	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. A reply to the line, dear colleague Dodig, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2571	There's a small anecdote about the English Parliament. A young colleague asked an older colleague what people would say that I didn't answer for a word. Then this older colleague told him, much better to wonder why you didn't talk than why you were talking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2572	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dodig, for the replica. The following has been reported for discussion on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives by a distinguished colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2573	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I'd like to say that the basic European value is democracy, and when politicians return from Brussels, places where, apparently, let's say according to what television at least tells us is freedom of speech and democracy appreciates, I'm surprised that in this High House, I am chaired by a break in the exhibition or in a replica that was very short, just two minutes, only because he didn't like what I'm saying. So if this House is no place where MPs are free to express their opinions that are, say, opposed to American propaganda, say so. If you mind what Pernar says, which doesn't agree with what America's done in the Middle East, okay, tell Pernar you can't say. If you mind my thinking about who's responsible for the refugee crisis, say it, Mr. Pernar, you have no right to say it, I forbid you and I take your word. But there's a farce here, so it's better to demand that the MPs be more active, so we're now going to fine the MPs to come here, that's the MOST plan. On the other hand, when I expressed my opinion or replica to Mr Plenkovic, then the same president of the Parliament who proposes these laws on behalf of MOST shuts down my microphone twice. Are we the extras here or am I supposed to play the extras and keep my mouth shut? What's the point of me coming here to the sessions if I can't say what I think here? So, first of all, I believe that it must be allowed for MPs to speak freely and express their opinions because I did not come here alone for myself but came on behalf of my constituents who chose me here to represent opinions and opinions, and they are next on this issue. Gentlemen of the HDZ, please do not interfere with my exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2574	Please, dear colleagues, allow Mr. Pernar to complete the presentation. And Mr. Pernar, I hope you'll be on the subject soon. You've had enough of this opening part. [[I will.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2575	Thank you, Chairman. The HDZ gentlemen are always laughing, but the situation in the country isn't funny at all, that's all I'm saying. People dig through the trash, the lines in front of the soup kitchens are long, and you're just laughing sneerly. Please stop that practice and respect it. Thank you. I'd like to say that the whole policy we're leading towards Russia right now is wrong. Soldiers are being sent, i.e. soldiers. The plan is to send soldiers to the Russian border, or even to increase the number of soldiers who are there, which I think is by actually provoking, and you know for yourself how far NATO has spread over the past 20 years to the east, and Russia has not spread to the west. And we saw from the behaviour of the NATO Pact that was the consequences of this policy, and it's the main refugee crisis. So we've been dealing with the consequences here the whole time, it's Turkey's fault that she didn't allegedly keep the refugees. It's our fault we didn't allegedly receive a number. But those who created these refugees, who created this refugee crisis, and you know who it is, that's the U.S. government with their foreign policy, they receive the least refugees, but in doing so, we are constantly in charge, you have to do this, you have to do what, give us any quotas, etc. and in this House, there is no debate in this House about the Croatian foreign policy that is if we decide, and all the time it is said that we are co-opting in the NATO Pact even though it is a lie to me we are only listeners and servants there, if we are co-determining there we are then also responsible for what is happening. But there is a situation here where the causes of the problem are completely ignored for years. We have a guy I don't know, 350 thousand blocked citizens, we're dealing with the question of how we're going to execute these people and what method we're going to block their account with or what technique we're going to decommission them by. And no one asks a question or debate about why the claims in Croatia can't be settled, why Kunska is indifference, there's no talking about it. When Pernar mentions it's the national bank's policy that goes to yawning and smirking. And how long? People don't think that's funny. I know that when I'm here, I'm saying that many of you would like to take me off this pay phone because it bothers you that I'm talking to, but people who are, say, Libyans whose country has been turned into hell, who are taking their heads off from where the refugee crisis is so far, they're not funny at all, and yet what kind of politics Croatia leads to their country. Neither did the people of Iraq, who were the same victims and were American policies, which led to the division of the country, sectarian conflicts and ultimately the emergence of the Islamic state. Also when we talk about terrorism, and terrorism is an important issue or an important topic for discussion, you all know that America is the one that brought the Taliban to power. Why can't that truth be spoken here? Why can't that truth be spoken here when American camera officials admit that we created Isil, that we armed them, that we funded them to remove the Syrian government? Why isn't it said openly we support terrorism? No, but you will, the story will be we're fighting terrorism, and while on the one hand we're fighting terrorism, on the other hand we're sending weapons to those same people. Croatian foreign policy as well as American reminds me of that book by Dr. Jackly Mr. Hyde of Luis Stevenson. So in it, a prominent citizen turns into a monster at night. And unfortunately, so is the politics of the Croatian government. So on the one hand, we fight for the poor, etc., and on the other hand we push people into poverty. On the one hand, it is about patriotism and national interests and on the other hand it sells sovereignty and deprives our country of freedom. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we cannot decide and express our opinion of what we have? Do we even have a state if we have to go for consultation for every decision we make? And if our decision depends on the will of those we consult, do citizens decide directly by selecting their representatives or by deciding someone else instead? Then do we even have democracy? Is that democracy? I don't think so. And I'd like to say that the sanctions Russia has been imposed on us. So they say from Brussels you must introduce Russia's sanctions. What benefit does Croatia benefit from these sanctions? And this servant government, servant to Brussels and Washington, whatever America says they're doing. He's acting in a humiliating way. A man who's a free and independent personality structure wouldn't allow himself to. The same thing when a Russian embassy diplomat was expelled, a directive came from the U.S. government, you got to kick someone out of the Russian embassy and then... A simple person is chosen, a man is neither guilty nor obliged to end up expelled, declared a spy, as my recently colleague, Beus-Richemberhg, has declared to be a Russian spy and only because I express my opinion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because I believe that Croatia should instead of an express pro-American policy lead its own policy in its own interest. And Croatian politics, or Croatian interest must not be the creation of refugees. And we know who these refugees are. And as long as America doesn't stop its wars, you have a situation that America says in Iran is, say, an enemy regime, it needs to be removed, tomorrow could be the war against Iran. And then why the refugee column again? And what's going on? And while we're taking care of refugees, America is sending weapons still. And it simply potentiates the crisis, potentiates conflict, potentiates war, blood and violence, and for only one reason to rule the world's resources, to rule oil. America doesn't go to Iraq because they care about Iraqis or I don't know the Libyans having democracy, they're fairy tales for little children. And instead of our prime minister telling me publicly and openly who the parrots are, they say the introduction of sanctions to Russia, Plenkovic will say, we are introducing sanctions to Russia. If Brussels says, I don't know, send soldiers to the Russian border, we say, we send soldiers to the Russian border. If this is a feature of the sovereign state I don't know what, it seems to me more our policy as NDH policy than '41. By '45. when the directives came from Berlin and when we were at every point of the type. Berlin says we announce war on the Soviet Union, Pavelic says we announce war on the Soviet Union, Berlin says we send soldiers to the Russian border, Pavelic says we send soldiers to the Russian border. What are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? Are we a sovereign state? That's what I raised the question when we discussed the Electoral Law. We are now talking about amendments to the Electoral Law who can run and who can't and who can't, and I said it, it doesn't matter who's gonna run and who's gonna be elected if the ones who are elected won't be the ones who decide. And I've been saddened that for 20 years this subject has not been touched at all. The parliaments are changing, or convening parliaments and MPs, and no one is talking about this issue and this serious problem. Why is that? Have we become good servants? When I told academic Stepan Zdunic, i.e. Dr. Science and former director, i.e. I think the Economic Institute he told me so, Ivan, so we were always in a vasal relationship when I told him about this country's external governance problem. But what is the question? Is it possible that a country that is in an important relationship, which is a servant, which has neither its own nor its monetary policy in its own interest, nor foreign policy, nor customs policy, means all the characteristics of our policy are actually not in our interest and that we in the Assembly are expected to have good results? And one more thing, the public for this disastrous economic situation, and I explained that this economic policy has been imposed on us outside, the voters will blame us. They'll say you of the Parliament are guilty because you made those decisions. It's your fault the currency clause is here. It's your fault we don't have to take in refugees or because you don't know how to deal with this refugee crisis. And is it our fault? Are we parliamentary representatives who have made decisions that have led to problems? Maybe we're on paper. Perhaps, dear colleagues and colleagues, some of you have raised your hands for those decisions but the question is whether you were only dolls at the end of the day or were truly expressing your will. And that's a serious problem. Is this a MaPet show, are we here dolls or are we people who have their dignity, a sense of self-esteem, a sense of self-respect, ladies and gentlemen, you're parliamentary representatives, you're the ones who decide the fate of our country. Well, you can't let someone who never went to the elections in Croatia, who we don't even know, who we've never seen decide whether to privatise state property in Croatia or not? Is he gonna get 20 grand people fired or not? Will the outsourcing be made? Will the highways be privatized? Will the Labour Act be changed? How can it happen that you're not the ones who decide that? And I am sorry that Prime Minister Plenkovic does not use the time in Brussels to advocate more Croatian interests but is only coming here to give us a message of what they told him there. If you Mr. Plenkovic in the EU in Brussels don't decide anything, if you're just coming here to keep us informed, if you can't choose for anything in our interest what's the point of going there? Well then we can simply and simply abolish the Assembly and we can bring here the EU's chief of staff as they have tried in Greece at the same time. Well, yes, let them send their own someone, as in the BIH of that high representative, and let him go to the Ban Courts, and we ladies and gentlemen all go home because otherwise this is all a farce. This is the ladies and gentlemen of the farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2576	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this debate. I would only ask and remind the distinguished colleague Pernar and all other colleagues and fellow MPs to stick to the debate point, and the current point is the report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the European Council. In your debate, you have touched a lot of topics that are not subject to discussion, so you would be asked both for replicas and for a reply to the replica to stick to the topic of debate. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, you have now held here a monologue for us Assembly MPs, taking us all under one same premonition. I personally say I don't agree with 99.9% of NATO's move, but are you saying I'm the doll at the end? I don't agree with EU policy either, it's my right as a parliamentary representative. And you're saying I'm the doll at the end? What would you like me to tell you that you're a lollipop at the end of Moscow? Absolutely everything you show here seems to me like you're getting an e-mail or when you listen to headphones from Moscow you get a direct warrant. I won't tell you that. Was Moscow, was Washington, I have my own attitude. So when you speak here to the parliamentary deputies, I'm lucky and I'm much older than you are that I participated in the creation of a state when we had nothing, unfortunately certain things have split up. Yes, and by the work of servant politics, by work and by the greater work of bowing down to great leaders. What wasn't the Parliament democratic but you can't tell the MPs, at least I'll tell you I'm a doll at the end. I believe, although I would never tell you that you are a doll at the end of Moscow. And how are you going to deny me now? Every speech you give ended with Russian interests, with Crimea. What if other countries of the world that supported the Homeland War had treated Croatia, would the Croatian border look like that? So everyone from your point of view and you underestimate it, it's your right to be democratic, and really if anyone is speaking in this House I've talked to in the last term, I've been the most active and I've never really seen three in a row be Ivan Pernar, Ivan Pernar, Ivan Pernar. But I allow it to be done by the Rules of Procedure and you have the right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2578	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2579	Dear colleague Bulj, I deeply appreciate that you have an attitude and, say, that you are, as I disagree with what NATO is doing, e.g. And that they are to blame for this refugee crisis, etc. However, you as a representative when the government's vote raises your hand for this government or against that government, or for that servant policy or against it. And you may personally be against that policy, but the moment you raised your hand for that government, you said at the moment I was behind the government's move, and as you can see, what we have isn't even the government. Because the government, in order to be a government, would have to rule, and the basic element of government is making decisions. And as far as I can tell we're here, we're briefing on what's been decided at a meeting in Brussels, and we don't decide anything from there. And then what's decided on us is that we're going to do it now. What are we talking about? Mr Bulj, I call on you to show that if you really disagree with that policy at the moment when it is voted that you disagree and not only speak I am against the EU, I am against NATO, and when it is voted for by the government that is both for the EU and all the Calvary of our people and for the NATO Pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2580	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply to the replica. Next to the replica, the esteemed colleague, Nicole Grmoy, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2581	Dear Vice President, here's a gentleman, or colleague Miro Bulj, who said most of what I was going to say. So you're an excellent propagandaist, so whenever someone smiles at your move, you say people are laughing because I don't know that 300 thousand people are blocked, people are digging through containers, bins, etc. We must not say that you do not have the opportunity to say what you think here and we all see that you are constantly saying, in all the information shows, that you have your views on US foreign policy moves, on NATO's moves to know the average Croatian citizens because on several occasions you have repeated it here in the Croatian Parliament. So I'd like to ask you not to tell anyone that you're being distracted by your attitudes. You are free to express your views. As far as the Executive Act is concerned, you have not made any concrete proposals, so you have not made any concrete proposals. All you can do is criticize. It's easy to criticize. Here I will agree with my colleague Bula we will criticise the US foreign policy which is an alternative for Croatia. You have given no alternative but to defend some moves of Moscow that are not to be defended. For example, this case is about Crimea. So you don't offer solutions, you don't offer any constructive suggestions, you don't have an alternative, you know how to criticize. I agree that every MP must stand behind what he's saying and that he must stand out of his voice when he raises his hand, and that's what I asked the prime minister about this trade agreement with Canada when we're going to get all the information in order to raise his hand. Because I'm not a fed doll, and I'm not gonna raise my hand for something I don't believe in. But I'm looking for information. And you know how to criticize, it means you use some methods, and I see that you often mention Nazi Germany. I have a feeling you've studied Goebbels a lot, you have some of the methods you're using. But I would ask you to be finally constructive and, apart from the criticism given and some sort of solution. We'll be happy to support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2582	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. Replication response, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2583	Dear comrade Grmoi, my replica, i.e. It's not against you because I have nothing against any of you sitting here, but against the way we rule our country. As far as the proposal is concerned, we asked that the only real estate be excluded from the performance. We asked you to ban the secret mirages by amending the executive law. We asked you to make sure that the cost of the execution couldn't come from the amount of the claim. You haven't adopted any of our requests. And you know what's gonna happen? I'm really going to bring you on the paper of those suggestions. And what's going to happen? You'll throw them away. So if I believed that you would accept any of what I suggest, I would bring you not today but yesterday to the table proposal. But I'll bring you these suggestions, Mr. Grmoy, and you'll see when there's a vote on how one by one you'll vote against it. You asked what was the alternative to this servant policy of the EU and NATO. The alternative is sovereign policy, an independent policy where the state implements politics in its own interest. So, a monetary policy that suits us without a currency clause, then a tax policy where if we can't protect ourselves from imports, we have to establish customs duties. You say no, the EU does not allow customs. If we have to get out of the EU and NATO, that's it. It's an alternative. But you'll say no, it can't be an alternative. Okay. So you accept both the EU and NATO at all costs and that's the key to the whole story. So, as a strategic goal, we have defined not a better life for our citizens, but to join the EU and NATO as a goal for ourselves. And then we subdued all the other interests, and that's why we're in the situation we're in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2584	I thank you for your reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Mr. Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Pernar, you are constantly calling this Croatian government that has just sat down that it is a servant and that it serves both European and American politics, and without any justification. I don't know whose policy you're supposed to be serving. Probably Russian all over you. According to all your allegations, you very much like Putin's intention to conquer Ukraine as much as possible and to enslave it as possible. You've equally praised it as if it's always been Russia's territory and it's perfectly normal. You're talking about it, and you don't know that Ukraine is the first country to recognise Croatia and which is in '91. On December 11th, she made it clear to Croatia's independent sovereign independent. You have not mentioned this so far, and I am concerned that you want to impose on the Croatian government such pro-Trust efforts to be the servant of Putin's intentions, but you also approve as I see he did well what he did to annex Crimea and what he sent his special forces to continue fighting as his tanks did. I'm also comparing it to the beginning of the Homeland War. Your desire to justify what happened in Ukraine is the same as it would be justified by probably both Serbian volunteers and JNA who destroyed Croatia. For us, this is the same relationship of forces in Ukraine against Russia as was Croatia with Serbia, Montenegro and the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2586	I would like to thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague Djakic. The answer to Mr. Pernar's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2587	Mr. Djakic, I see you care a lot about the Ukrainians. But there is one nation that almost no one in this House of Commons cares about, and these are Palestinians who were ethnically cleansed in 1948 750,000. They've been deprived of all their rights. They were deprived of their country and home and, despite UN Resolution 194, they were never granted the right to return. But what? America wrote off the Palestinians and that's why you don't care about the Palestinians. And for the Ukrainians, it is not because you care about the Ukrainians, but only because you extract it as an example that the Russian government is demonized, and it is not said that America that has not stopped fighting since its establishment, that it is a country that does not know about peace and that it is only a matter of the moment when another country in the world will be hit by American bombs. And you now represent Russia as guilty of not knowing the wars in Guatemala or I don't know Panama or bombing in Jem or so on. But the fact is that from Vietnam to Latin America, all these bloody regimes from the Taliban to Saddam Hussein, they all had American support, and all over there, America left its bloody trail. Mr. Djakic, I see you laughing and I know it may be funny to you, but Mr. Djakic, your ignorance of history is not funny at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2588	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Maria Jelkovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2589	Thank you very much. My colleague Pernar, I'm really sorry that you here in the assembly are constantly trying to impose the thesis that there is a conspiracy against you, especially on this side of the assembly. I assure you that I personally, and none of the colleagues on this side has anything against you. But we also cannot agree with your actions and discussions that are constantly out of the question. So, you're not discussing the subject, you're discussing the agenda, you're discussing what's not in the agenda. We should all respect the Rules of Procedure here. You don't respect him. That's what we disagree with. So, I think we all in this assembly have to stick to a certain order, and that's the Rules of Procedure. I am also sorry that you are insulting the institutions of this country and the values of this country. You just said there is no sovereignty of Croatia. I remind you that for this sovereignty many Croatian sons have died and you have no right to destroy the dignity of the Croatian state in such a way. There is a responsibility for all of us for the spoken word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2590	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac on the line. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2591	Yes, they died for the sovereignty that a particular party had in one elegant way gambled. And how did she gamble it? So your colleague Shakespeare has changed the Constitution in a way that association with other countries is not enough for a half majority of all our citizens, but only most of those who go to the referendum. So we lost that sovereignty by the will of a minority of our country's citizens, and for God's sake, you were protecting the interests of the majority. But you touched something very interesting, and you said Mr. Pernar you're turning off the subject. Professor Noam Chomsky's world-renowned philosopher he says that the basic technique of the manipulation of propaganda is next, and that is not how much discussion goes in width but is important to control the topic of debate. The goal is to put topics that are not really crucial and crucial to our country and can then be discussed until the day of judgment. It's like we're meeting in the Big Brothers right now and we're talking about which beer is the better carlovia or March. And now we can, we have the freedom to discuss this matter for two days. But on key topics as a question of the currency clause, why a state that has the power to create money cannot be directly financed from the central bank but depends on the money of private banks to finance this issue has no debate, it simply cannot come to the agenda. And there's always an answer that's not the subject of the agenda. I mention the secret rites you're going to say that's not the topic of the agenda. I mention the problem of digging through the trash you're going to say is not the topic of the agenda. A colleague of Bunjac says 200 thousand people came out of our country that's not the subject of the agenda. So what are we talking about here? So what topics are we talking about here? Are people more afraid of Hanžekovic or Russian threats, ma'am? Don't rub people's eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2592	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Žarko Tušek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2593	Dear colleague Pernar, I've been thinking whether or not I should rephrase to you because that means at least two more minutes of this demagogy of yours that you're very nice in continuity is that you've been selling it to you for several days and I can see that, unfortunately, the media is quite serious, they're following it too seriously. A well-known French philosopher told you that the less a man knows, the more his knowledge seems to him. I don't know how much you know but you're putting yourself in a pre-absolute category. And there's an impression, I don't want to say that you think so, but that you really underestimate these people here, their political personalities and their political attitudes, what they did through their professions, through political work, and created and as if they didn't do anything and created anything, and as if you had done absolutely everything in your 20s and some years and learned absolutely everything. It's the impression that I have and most people have here, and that may be the cause of these nervous reactions and ridicules, and I see that you react with even more anxiety. I'd lower your tensions and I'd advise you as a man if you could continue to communicate and debate but with much less underestimating people here and with much less importance giving yourself your knowledge, your work and your life's knowledge because you simply couldn't be at the level you're setting yourself up during your years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2594	I thank my esteemed colleague, Tušek, for the replica. Replication response, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2595	Mr. Tušek, I'm not the most educated person here, my education is modest, I'm a medical technician by profession. I'm not the smartest person here, there are certainly smarter people here than me, but I'm saying what everyone sees except you. So in that fairy tale, or story, the emperor's new tuho ha little child says the emperor is naked, and everyone says that the emperor has a great suit and that it suits him well. It seems to me that in these discussions, you all assure me that Croatia is great, that everything is in place, that we are benefiting from the EU and NATO. Malten as if we had entered the promised land, not the dungeon and the hostage of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2596	I thank Mr. Pernar for his reply to the replica. We're moving on with the debate. We continue, for the discussion of the individual on this subject, the distinguished colleague Pernar appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2597	Thank you, Chairman. This subject, this is an exhaustive topic, and it could be talked about for hours. I am also sorry that the issue of our country's sovereignty, or our relationship with Brussels, is not being discussed at all. I'm sorry about that. I regret that our membership in the EU and NATO is seen as a sacred cow that is untouchable regardless of whether the EU is carrying out our country's interests or working on our damage, whether we benefit from the NATO Pact's actions around the world or just damage. What are the useful things from the EU that we should all blindly listen to the instructions and directives that come to us, as it is said in an emergency procedure, simply come to us as encyclopaedias of laws that we cannot even manage to read, which are only being voted because it is from the EU. So if the esteemed colleagues and colleagues propose a bill, we'll read, he'll go into debate and vote on it. However, when we come from EU laws without a Malta, not without an objective debate, without having even analyzed it, simply the whole long series of laws are voted out who, as you would say, who is the mandarins in Metkovic when they are thrown into the porridges, simply serves it to our public. I would like to say that such a relationship with our country as the EU has where they treat us as their servants who must do their will that this relationship is not equal, and we were told when we entered the EU that we would co-operate there. But when I listened to Mr. Plenkovic's statement, I didn't notice that he was co-determining anything there in Brussels. It seems to me that Mr. Plenkovic in Brussels was just a briefing and that he was told to do it, that and that's it. And then what's the point of that briefing, if you can honestly ask yourself as agents? Why did we listen to Mr. Plenkovic today? What did we decide? Nothing. What did he decide? Nothing. Did the public decide anything, let the public wonder what she was thinking about what came from Brussels? It's not. So it doesn't matter what the public thinks, it doesn't matter what the MPs think, it doesn't even matter what the prime minister thinks. And then you tell me people spilled blood for sovereignty. Yes, but did they spill blood for what we have now or for something else? Did they shed blood for it as defender Mirko Dukic ladies and gentlemen, who, on the day the government voted in force, was delegated under the directives of the illegal RBA cooperative, ma'am. Did Mr. Dukic go to war so that an illegal RBA cooperative from another country would throw him out on the street or Mr. Socan? Mr. Sočan lives near Ivanić City, he was also a Croatian defender and he would have been evicted if it hadn't been for us colleagues from the Living Wall. And there are many such examples that these very EU banks have led to suicide. And never forget the defenders in the Castles who committed suicide because of the Swiss franc. So what's going on? That fight we won in the war, the war we won in the war we lost in peace without a fight. We surrendered without a shot fired. Dear HDZ gentlemen, I'm going to tell you something. I'm a modest education. I'm a nurse. And I was told by an old German who was a soldier of Wehrmacht, “Zwei little haben wir versucht, haben nicht ges haft, dritte mal schaffen wir onhe bowl. ” He says, twice we tried to conquer Europe, we failed, third time we did it without a bullet. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid the same way that Bosnia fell with its paws, that our country fell with its paws, and that's why we're in this terrible economic crisis, why people have to run from our country. And the question is, what is in Brussels, which measure has Brussels given us to stop the escape of the people of our country, which Brussels has proposed to us and recommended? None. Brussels doesn't care at all. What measure did Brussels propose to stop digging through garbage? Not one. So Brussels is not interested in the existence and life of our citizens at all. They're just interested in which companies you're going to privatize, how much pay you're going to cut, if you're going to abolish the Labour Act, if you're going to abolish the currency clause, so all they're interested in is actually implementing a policy that's against their own citizens. And it's a shame for a state-of-the-art party, at least at first because HDZ created or played a major role in creating an independent state. But that same role they played eventually turned upside down. So they fought against colleagues on my right and accused the SDP of being that party, they traded our sovereignty, the money went to Belgrade, etc. And what did you do when you came to power? Look at all the money that went to Belgrade and look at all the money that goes to the IMF and goes to Brussels and goes to Berlin. See how much foreign banks draw on the annual level of money from our country, and how much money was going to Yugoslavia in Belgrade. The economic exploitation that was in Yugoslavia by Serbia against our country was a peanut, a cat cough compared to the economic exploitation built by foreign credit institutions from the EU against our country. And everything you've been handing over to your colleagues from the SDP, you've done not the same thing but a hundred times worse. And the citizens you've led to the edge of the abyss see it. Extreme poverty is a phenomenon we in Croatia didn't know about in socialism. Today, the vast number of inhabitants live in extreme poverty. And then again, instead of covering your ears and saying we made a mistake, we're gonna make it right, we're gonna say no, we're gonna continue with that policy and you're Pernar who's talking about it, you're ignorant, what are you talking about, etc... You're not a Russian spy, you're a mercenary, this one. We've got ourselves into a situation where whoever's telling the truth is labeling him. Let's start with the assumption that I'm an agent of Moscow who's untrue, but let's start with that assumption. Then whose agent are you, gentlemen of the HDZ? Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunate that we are only now discussing this subject in 2016. It is sad that our people were not directed into the reality that awaited them. Do any of you remember advertising when we joined the EU? Well, that was, if it wasn't Goebbels' propaganda, then what was it? They assured people that they would live better and the first thing they did when we joined the EU was to collect everything and everything, raise VAT, privatise, get people out of the country. What was the positive thing we got from the EU? And again, there was always a tendency to open up a market of half a million people, i.e. Half a billion people, 500 million. And now, the EU says, you have no right to protect your own market from our products. And what chance does our peasant have compared to a German peasant? Nothing. The exchange policy you've been running since '94. The year is such that the kuna is overrated from the euro. And that according to the defolt Croatian peasant, his product is more expensive than the product of a German peasant. The VAT in Germany is smaller and the incentives are probably five times higher. And then you brought in the Croatian peasants and the German and you say now you're fighting what you say from the world trade, as the WTO, the World Trade Organisation, they call it, and now we're going to enjoy free trade. What chance do our peasants have in that free trade? And then not only did you ruin the peasants on that side, but then the few peasants who exported to Russia, who could say the Mandarins there sell, said we'd introduce sanctions to Russia. And then what? [[Intruder: Time co-worker.]] And then when the peasants fail, when they are disintegrated, then you will say to yourself, it is your own fault, and you of the Living Wall have not helped anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2598	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this debate. The line was answered by a distinguished colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2599	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, I have criticised you in this last step, but I will commend one thing that is from these discussions, which often doesn't make much sense, where you are trying to present that in fact certain topics are not to be talked about and that it is forbidden, is not forbidden to talk about certain topics, but certain topics should be talked about when it is a topic. For example, the topic of secret mirage was the topic as we discussed the Executive Law. And that's when you were supposed to talk about the subject. You're saying that the CNB theme is a forbidden topic, it's not a forbidden topic, because we're going to have a point soon, so the MOST has proposed an audit to the CNB. So there are no forbidden themes but topics should be discussed at a time when this theme is on the table. And what I would commend you for is the fact that yet these discussions of yours have one positive effect on us as parliamentary representatives. I was thinking while you were talking, you said that we should raise awareness of ourselves means the dignity of the parliamentary representatives and the fact that we're deciding on very important matters. And it's very important, but we're already aware of that, many of us, I believe. And once again, I remind you that most people here when they raise their hands will be raised because it's been informed, I hope that's how it will be, and then they'll raise their hands. And as far as Croatian foreign policy is concerned, it should be observed within complex relations, meaning that Croatia as a small country can defend its interests. Once again, I tell you that you have offered no alternative but I agree with you that Croatia should do everything in its capacity as a small country and as a small member of the EU to protect its national interests. I am convinced if nothing is going to affect both the prime minister and all parliamentary representatives that we are thinking well about when we are making a decision whether this decision is in favour of our citizens and in favour of national interests. Here's what I'd like to thank you for. And as for the fact that you're constantly representing yourself as a victim and that someone doesn't allow you to speak is not true, you just need to talk about a particular subject. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] speak when that topic is on the table. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2600	Thank you to my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2601	Mr. Grumoja, it is true when the amendments to the CNB law will be discussed that the state audit will be allowed inside. However, the key question that we have is not whether, as the CNB obtains toilet paper and whether Governor Vujčić spends an official card for private purposes or whether he was skiing during the time he allegedly worked but the key question is what kind of monetary policy the CNB conducts. Because the reason why we fall apart as a society is not because Governor Vujčić spends 30 thousand kunas more or less on the card and whether his official driver drives him for private purposes, etc., but the wrong monetary policy. And your party president Bozo Petrov because he said there's no speech about changing monetary policy. Because he was asked by the press, O.K., you're talking about reforms, you're talking about amending the CNB law, is there going to be any reform of monetary policy? He doesn't say, not by any chance. And it seems to me that there is often a change in form here, as it is reportedly reforming something, and essentially a day after that law is passed for everything it will be the same. The only one who will actually have anything to do with this amendment to the State Audit Act is that now those in the CNB will live in fear, and the state audit has more work to do. Only those two groups of people are groups affected by this reform. To no one else, ladies and gentlemen. Blocked will remain blocked, those who have loans in the currency clause will remain with these loans, those who are plagued by this disastrous course will continue to fail and essentially nothing changes without reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2602	Thanks for the reply to the replica. Next to the replica, the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2603	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, so at the time of the biggest pro-European policy Dr. Ivo Sanader I was then, it can be easily checked at the local level against it, even forbidden to participate in Sinjska alci as an alkarian boy. It's one ground level precisely because of this servant... policy that went on as it turned on and... and you were then a follower of young, relatively young pro-European policies of Dr. Ivo Sanader. I don't take it as a crime to you, but I don't give you the right to impose on us any more than you do every time. Although in my short term for five months, I'm not from the incubator, I'm not supposed to be the man from the village around Sinja, my father was a transport worker, mother of the housewife, not like you said. I'm not supposed to be in any incubator, I happen to be a parliamentary representative thanks to my colleagues from MOST. I don't see any of your suggestions that I won't support when given in writing. Here I promise you, you'll see the exact point you suggest. You understand? Both monetary policy and banks and telecommunications operators are all a fact robbed illegally and political elites are allowed, I agree with you both left and right and central. But the fact is that at this point they need suggestions, give suggestions that you're talking about, we'll try to make things right together, or you can come to us at the club or the SDP, or I don't know where, or the HDZ, so let's try together if we can't, then there's no point in sitting here. And the people look at us and respects the views of both yours and mine, someone less, but the fact is that in a very short term of six months, if there hadn't been a MOST policy, you wouldn't still have the opportunity to be a parliamentary representative because of the purely national protection of national interests. And remember that well, not because we're getting up, but because it's a fact. If we weren't over-excessorators and you were on the list, there were over-indicators who weren't protecting national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2604	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. The answer to my colleague Pernar's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2605	Mr. Bull, it is my desire to be a constructive factor in this House. And if you colleagues from MOST are really honest hearts open to the fact that the only real estate being protected from the performance, and to stop the secret raids, to end the currency clause, to change monetary policy or at least any of these topics I am ready now after this session to go with you, sit down at the table and make a concrete proposal. Right now, so there's no talking on my side about me not knowing I'm attacking you to attack you. I just want to point out that there are certain social problems and that those who are currently ruling in the Parliament, and that is known, that HDZ and MOST do not actually act with the goal of solving these problems and should act. Because both parties "have Croatian omens", and unfortunately we see that they are not enough, i.e. to treat as Ivo Sanader, whom they called a European friend. Well I remember that propaganda video you friend, European friend of Ivo Sanader where they praised Ivo Sanader, he's a good man, Ivo Sanader is the best choice for Croatia, Ivo Sanader is my good friend, etc. And the same way these European friends fought Evey Sanader. I feel like we're beating Van Rompuy today and I don't know Obama, etc. So they've been licking their asses, and we're doing the same thing, and we're doing this sleazy policy, because our policy is a suck-up, let's not kid ourselves, our people have no use, there's nothing but humiliation and suffering that our own police are driving him out of his home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2606	I thank you for your response to the replica of my colleague Pernar. Next to the replica, a respected counterpart, Šipic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2607	... Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[Specially enabled.]] Here I had no intention of replicating it, but since maybe my colleague Pernar first saw me, I just couldn't stand not to say it, although we're all slowly tired, some more since they left obviously, the colleagues from the opposition have gone away, they've been tired a long time ago. So it's normal for Mr. Pernar to... So, Mr. Pernar in this home is normal to say what you think and it's really we all fought for it together. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But there is one thing, but in this work, it is that we approach our business knowingly, honestly, and responsibly. Your performances in this home all these days have been set up so that all you say unfortunately or someone fortunately is I would say it like this and many will agree to the encyclopedia of wrongly placed thesis and suggestions. So much disrespect for colleagues, so much ignorance, pure populism has long not been seen in the Croatian National Assembly. You first see me, with what right did fellow Bull say you can put them all in the same bag and call us all together what you called us? So we are elected as the Croatian government of the Croatian people. So, for the most part, Mr. Pernar as well as you. You were chosen by a part of the Croatian people and I confess. But you can't make a sacrifice like this. I was watching you the other day in the Open. You're saying that your biggest lizard with a fellow SDP who's not there, the biggest geese and the greatest sweetness beats on HDZ and even when consciously Watch this, I apologize to finish. [[Intruder Brkić: Time.]] It also says that the greatest lizard is when you knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is very unacceptable for you and for all of us. You need arguments, you need quality debates, and what you're doing is trying media to rise above all of us and beyond what is still devastating above this institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2608	Thank you very much, colleague Šipić. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2609	Dear fellow MP, that HDZ did not do what he did to the Croatian people, that HDZ did not suck the money out of state-owned enterprises, and then through that dirty money he won the elections, that your former party president was not in jail, and that one you've now replaced is not in prison and in court only because he keeps you valued because he knows everything since he ran the police and secret service to me would not be a goose to undermine you. But considering what you've done to our country, you HDZ gentlemen, that you gentlemen of the HDZ have done. Believe me, it is a privilege for me to give you back at least one percent or 0.001% of what you have done to the Croatian people both in the Republic of Croatia and in neighbouring BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2610	Thank you very much for the reply to the replica. The following came up for discussion, that is, the closing statement on behalf of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall, a distinguished colleague, Mr. Pernar, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2611	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that it is a great joy for me to have the opportunity to talk here, because I can talk about things that could not be talked about before in the Croatian Parliament. And not only couldn't it, but the public didn't even think about those questions. Today, we are also thinking about the things that we have discussed, today and tomorrow, people in their homes will talk about and ask each other whether this policy is currently being run in our interest or not. If it continues, will we run out of property and all of us have to leave the country or will we stay in it? It's not my sincere desire to attack you until the fateful day of the gentlemen of HDZ and the Most. It's my wish that today or tomorrow we sit together at the table and say let's change the executive law in a fundamental sense. Let's change the CNB Act in a fundamental sense. So, I said gentlemen dear when I was at President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic's next words. They asked me if you'd decided who you'd sign. I said if Mr Plenkovic wanted to change the course of Croatian politics and be a leader and statesman, not a spokesman for Brussels if he were here next to me right now, I would give him my signature. So, no matter what you've done in our country, I forgive you everything and don't mind if you're willing to turn a new page in Croatian history. In the same way that you have abolized the refugees and the Kosovos of the 1990s because together with them you have created a state in the same way I am willing to abolize all of you out of all guilt for all the robbery and all the crime under only one assumption, which is that this policy stops and politics begins in the interests of our country. So I'm not a bad guy, I'm not a vindictive man, I have nothing against any of you personally. So this isn't about some personal animosity of mine or the desire that I don't know how to be a clown and entertain you. Because basically this role that I have is very ungrateful and I would rather not have it and that our country's policy is different and that I never had to go into politics. But unfortunately by your actions, you've forced me to act politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2612	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this debate. A respectable colleague named Lackovic appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2613	Thank you, Mr. President. So, we heard the salve of criticism about Mr. Pernar's work, and then I have a need even though I'm not his lawyer to commend his work. So we must accept in the Croatian Parliament the fact that there will be people who will debate, debate in another way. You or all of us together don't have to and don't need to mess him up in our way of thinking, and when we try to get him to express his views or not to express them in the way he puts them, then we just give him, or we give everyone together, and you give him a chance to repeat them once more and explain them. Asking Mr. Pernar to make and constructive proposals is not appropriate, because he is talking about issues that do not currently have answers in Croatia and that is why it is good to hear these questions. Those problems he's talking about will be dealt with someday. He is on the trail of wanting greater sovereignty for the Republic of Croatia, we all know that one part of us are losing him by entering EU and NATO membership. But these are all facts that we as serious people should take and let Mr. Pernar really think with his own head and say and not think that he provokes us. I personally don't think it provokes us and I'll say it again won't be long before his proposals get space in legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2614	I thank you for your rep to my esteemed colleague, Lackovic. The answer to my colleague Pernar's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2615	I would like to thank Mr. Lackovic for being honest and not treating me as a political enemy but simply expressed his opinion with sincere thought. What I'm saying is there's a difference between the way America treats other countries and Russia. President Putin, president of the Russian Federation, said: “We used to keep Eastern European countries in a vassal relationship and force them to serve us. And we have seen that this policy where there is no partnership, but vassality and service is wrong and that it has no future. But Russia has learned from these transitional times a historical lesson that countries have the right to freedom and sovereignty." And unlike Russia, which no longer leads such a policy to keep countries in a slave and important position, America and the EU unfortunately have the need or continue to implement such a policy. And our governments seem to be licking up more after each other that will serve them more. And the more prostitution these politicians mean, like, The finance ministers of some formerly who are now and in the new government then the IMF in return for implementing their policy, and surely that policy was not in our interest giving them high-paid seats in Washington. And then the prime minister comes to us from Brussels, and then these same people who already betrayed Croatia and brought back from the IMF and Washington here to run politics again. I believe that such a policy is wrong for every conviction. And it is up to you HDZ colleagues to wonder what is the long-term direction and future of our country if it continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2616	I thank Mr. Pernar for his reply to the replica. And the closing word on behalf of the promoter of the Croatian Prime Minister Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2617	Thank you very much, Vice President Brkic, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. First of all, thank you for your discussions, for your thoughts, I think that we have clearly guessed well that these discussions at the plenary session are necessary and useful in the Croatian Parliament and it is good that the topics discussed in the EU institutions and the Croatian public are familiar. We'll continue this practice. I believe that, in this debate, when a European Council meeting comes in December, perhaps a greater number of MPs will try to give their views and express their views in it. As for several aspects that seem important to me for a final debate. First is the attitudes of Croatia. So, my colleague Klisovic, you've been in diplomacy for many years, like I have, and you have a certain knowledge and insight of what discussions in the council and those that are open and those that are closed look like. I think you know enough about that. When it comes to Croatia's views, migration first. Very clear and firm views of both the Croatian and Croatian governments. Number one solves the problem at the source. This is the first and the main position, which means protecting the EU's external borders, all that the members of the interior ministry already share, whether it is Greece, whether it is Bulgaria, Macedonia. A concrete contribution to making the problem as far from our territory and as far from our borders as possible and to being part of the EU's whole policy. The second is the agreement and respect for the agreement with Turkey that is crucial on this route that last year, while you were partly in power with your permissiveness in terms of getting people out of Turkey, led to the situation that more than 700 thousand people went through Croatia. How'd they go? Did they go well at first? Did your government react well when after just a few days it blocked the border on economic transit between Croatia and Serbia? I'm not sure. Were there any dramatic problems? That's another question. What we're going to do is regulate our border control is that at this point, the MUP, which has already raised its readiness, where in a much more detailed and more engaged way, representatives of a series of police administrations are already positioned to control the green border, that we have no recorded number of uncontrolled and illegal entry into Croatia, without the MUP having recorded it, that it has not responded, and that it has not responded by returning to the country where these people came from. That's not what happened right now. Third, we will respect both international law and European law and national regulations. We'll push for a revision of the Dublin regime. We will advocate the full functioning of the Schengen system. We will push for the quick fulfilment of the criteria for Croatia to become a Schengen member, to use all the money we received on the occasion of EU accession, which is if you remember well 120m euros, to make the efforts that the Ministry of the Interior is doing both consistent and coherent with what we have taken on as a commitment and what we are expected by the European Commission to spend on time. Of course we'll be human. An extremely important aspect, an extremely important aspect. The crisis has its own humanitarian character and one who in Croatia gets circumstances will be treated humanly. He'll be respected, we'll try to help him with all aspects like the M.O.P. does as the Red Cross does as all the other services involved do. Today, at EU level, you no longer have a double policy. No more apriorne willcomen politics or... policies and policies of wires and fences that it is or/or. [[You don't understand.]] It is working to preserve a single European policy in the context of migration and in the context of the refugee crisis through a mixed approach to cross-resor approach and foreign policy and security and development and internal security and all those services in charge of human beings and we can say an approach that provides both health and other protection for people passing through or in EU member states. We also made commitments when it comes to moving and moving. You were then, among other things, if I remember these councils well when those decisions were made. The number of people who are then based on distribution and the basis of EU-level calculations, Croatia has accepted 1583 persons, based on the transfer of 968, based on the move of 615. In reality, a very small number essentially moved to Croatia, almost insignificant, almost insignificant at the moment. According to the interior minister's information on our territory at this point, about 800 people who are in different legal status are now, so that number is neither a security threat nor a financial problem in any way. The situation in front of us doesn't require any alarming action. It requires serious preparation, more scenarios and coordination with all the countries around us. In a few days, the interior minister will go to Prague for a meeting, so-called The Salzburg groups therefore have one round of interior ministers to continue co-ordinating joint actions. When it comes to trade policy, so as far as CETA itself is concerned, there are no dilemmas. A comprehensive trade agreement with Canada will benefit Croatian entrepreneurs, for Canadian investments. There is no aspect that could be harmful to Croatia in any scenario. And we're going to argue that this problem is solved in Belgium as well. The Valon government led by Mr. Magnet, now in the talks here as we discuss here an ambush and conduct dialogue with the Belgian government to find a solution. I agree with you, we can also launch an initiative on how to conclude trade agreements at EU level. You know that the EU is an international right entity, that you have mixed contracts like this TTPS, which means that they also require ratification at EU and Member State level. The decision was therefore taken to underline the political importance of these contracts and to include national parliaments in the debate on the content of these contracts. So that's what's important. When we talked about the transparency of the process, someone here said that I think Professor Dodig said that a colleague of Borzan had been through a very large procedure to see the text of those chapters that were agreed on in TTIP. It's not that complicated, it's getting a headset, it's called, it's getting an appointment, and it's looking at the paperwork. So the thing is quite simple, but it requires some respect for those who negotiate. Not everything can be negotiated online, everyone who has ever entered into negotiations on any kind of contract, let alone international contracts know that they must have a certain margin. However, the level of information of the highest public, particularly in the context of the growing, galloping pulsism in the EU and the left end and right end. Look at the results for the European Parliament, why we campaigned in these elections for the Croatian Parliament which was a complete negation of this approach, why we received positive messages from all possible colleagues who are part of the political mainstreams for our campaign and the elections we won because we went both through content and strategy and tactics against what is today a trend in the EU and I will continue to do so. And it will be one of the main objectives of this Croatian government and this parliamentary majority because we appreciate the content, we appreciate it specifically, and against demagogy, we are against a la cart combining and coming up with some information that people who do not have enough knowledge in today's technological conditions give to believe that the scenarios are actually something else. No, they're not. The real scenarios are those that are serious, long-prepared, thoroughly analysed. We didn't join the EU by accident. This was the strategic goal of all Croatian governments since the beginning, since the first speech of Dr. Tuđman's president here in the Croatian Parliament, his point of the three programme was European... We achieved it after 23 years with a hard time, with a reform of the legal, political, economic system, so we can even say phenomenal and with a change of mentality and this job was not easy and we still won the 2012 referendum, where we achieved national consensus on both the right and left parts of the political spectrum. And yet 33% of the people who went out were against it. It is an obligation to continue the process of explaining and interpreting our membership in the EU and all European policies. And that's why I'm here today, before I'm back in Parliament before we held a cabinet session. It is conscious and deliberate and with full respect for the Croatian Assembly and elected representatives and we will continue this. You've had the opportunity to do this kind of methodology in the EU while you've been in power, you're not. The Prime Minister in your time, according to my information, has only been on this subject twice, completely resuming one-year activity in the European Council. I will change that because I think it is necessary because I saw it both in the first European campaign and in the second European campaign and in the campaign for the Croatian Parliament because I believe that we have the responsibility all together and as Government and you as representatives and all of us as political parties, to contribute. Do not give in to the demagogy that we are governed by Brussels, that we are managed by Washington, that we are managed by the IMF, the World Bank, the European Commission, the European Council, no. We're part of that process because we wanted it to be. So these institutions are our institutions too. The European Council is also a Croatian institution because we are taking part in it because we are articulating attitudes, so if you want to discuss politics and Croatia and the EU in Russia on key fundamental principles. If there's a restrictive regime, it's not designed because someone wanted it alleatively or accidentally. There is a reason for not respecting the fundamental principles of international law, the fundamental postulates of the entire international order, and therefore there are these restrictive regimes. No one is thrilled with them, but these are the ways in which they react to certain behaviours and certain behavioural models that are quite visible and quite obvious in several examples, and the last one we discussed was the situation in Syria where the consensus reached in the conclusions if the situation is worsened, and it will consider all other scenarios. To one who can read between lines a very clear message, it could not be clearer and a consensus was reached, including Croatia's support, to be quite clear, consensus and that is what we need to know and to keep in mind. When it comes to issues concerning the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU. It's a topic we're going to have to discuss further here. The consequences of this political event, which is a negative referendum, which I have repeatedly publicly said was unnecessary, extremely unnecessary and which turned out to be a losing situation and for whoever triggered it and for the country that it is and the whole European project has brought into a situation that needs to think about Europe's future in a new way. The future of 27 members both financially and institutionally and in the ultimate line in regulating relations with the United Kingdom. These are the topics we're going to open up here, a very detailed discussion. I am very open and very ready for every European topic, for every foreign political topic, along with the minister and all other ministers who are concerned because it will concern Croatia. We have entered relatively recentically, now for more than 3 years, so perhaps this whole situation doesn't seem as big as it seems to be for those who have been in the European Union for a very long time, and they are much more concerned because they also know how to contribute to the budget and guarantees and a series of consequences that this will have for the functioning and international financial organisations. Therefore, it is my desire that these topics be thematic. We can't open all the topics of foreign policy and international relations in one debate, let's stick to this 4. I have all the openness and willingness to talk about them all. But I don't want to talk about all the topics at some point. We can agree on one dynamic debate on both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs, ministers will come, interpret all those topics which are relevant to the Croatian public and parliamentary representatives. I think this practice will raise awareness of the true and factually established policies and our views. So not to be in some context of semi-information, unverified information because all the referendums held in the last 15 years and which were negative in the EU member states were very many, in the Netherlands, Ireland, France, Greece, Sweden, this one now in the United Kingdom, mainly because the information was not exactly placed exactly as if it were correct. Because people don't have time to check out these details, give trust to something that acts like it's true. That's what we're going to end, that's not going to happen in Croatia, but we're going to give accurate, quality, clear, accurate information. Someone might be against it, though, someone might be in favor but the one who's against has to say it's for that reason and not for the fabricated arguments. That's what I'm gonna stand up to. Anyone can be against and Croatia's EU membership. This government is for the European Union, the HDZ is for the EU because it has made a major contribution both to the negotiations and to the whole of the past 20 years. As far as I know and key opposition parties are for, we are not questioning the fundamental achievements of our international positioning. We, with membership in the North Atlantic Alliance, have solved one of the most important things and this is a matter of collective security of the country. This means that our freedom can never be questioned in any way in the way that our security and territorial integrity was compromised in '91. A year. Political objectives, stability, legal certainty, opportunities for economic development are achieved through EU membership. And we'll work on it. And each of these ministers, including members of this Croatian Parliament, will also be able to contribute to the first semester, or the first half of 2020, when we will chair the EU. Therefore, through this joint work in the Croatian Parliament, we will come to the level of 2020 that each of the Croatian political representatives who will chair the individual bodies will rule these topics as if they are who they are every day in the Croatian Parliament. That's the goal. And to prepare the public for such a big role we'll have in three years. And I'm doing it with full reflection, even premeditation, if you will, and with full confidence that we'll do our homework in quality. All the comments, all the colleagues who were there and those who were from the left political spectrum or liberal and those who belonged to the family of the regiment parties, were all positive. However, they think that in Central Europe we are a very, very, very high-quality one, so I would not say an exception but an example that can be quality served in election campaigns and in the context of the relaxation of political dialogue and European orientation while protecting national interests. It is a picture of Croatia today, a country that solves issues with its neighbours through dialogue, which knows how to protect national interests and which recognises the European process and understands the global context and is properly positioned in it. These are the fundamental postulates of our view of international relations and foreign policy. And so on Friday we go to Sarajevo and Mostar, consciously and intentionally, to send a message that, to the Croatian new government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, absolutely foreign political priority no. 1. And we are expected to do so and we will accomplish this task in the next 4 years for the benefit of cohesion and the functioning of BiH and for the benefit of equality and protection of the interests of Croats as a constituent people, very concretely both in sectors and in politics. And that's our goal. And on this trail, this government will also lead its European and its foreign policies, will make a huge contribution and at all times protect Croatian national interests because we were not chosen by Brussels, we were not elected by any Washington, we were chosen by the Croatian people whom we only answer to. And we answer so that we understand very well in what circumstances we need to lead our policy at European and global level. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2618	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Plenkovic. We have one replica. A respectable colleague, Mr. Klisovic, appeared in the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2619	Thank you very much. And I thank Prime Minister Plenkovic for his final presentation, which he touched on several questions that I also raised. Of course, I did not expect to answer all the questions, there were a number of them, as I did not expect to answer those questions that need some discretion and which are being debated in the European Council in a discreet tone. But on the other hand, we need to find a format to discuss all the issues raised in the House. If we can't get into the Parliament's plenary session, in public session okay, but that's why we might be in the closed sessions of the relevant committees. Only in this way will Parliamentarians be given the opportunity to really reflect on the issues of our interest, which are very important and discussed at the level of the heads of government and state in the European Council. And in this sense, I welcome what the prime minister said that we can leave the thematic debates for committees if necessary in closed format. As far as the priorities of the government's migration policy are concerned, if I understand correctly, so the government will also retain the country's security priorities and the security of citizens. Croatia is not as a hotspot or a assembly centre and full respect for the rights of migrants given to them by our legislation, European or international law. And in that sense, I welcome this continuity in relation to the SDP-led government policy, and I think it's the best way to have one too many policies in the future. On behalf of the club, I also welcomed this initiative to hold a meeting of the Parliament after each European Council, in which the prime minister will report to the parliament. Yes, he is right, Prime Minister Milanovic did not come every time, after every session but he respected what the law says, so once a year he gave a dubious picture of everything the European Council discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2620	I thank you for the replica of Mr. Klisovic. The reply to the replica, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2621	Right, right. Kola Klisovic, your then Prime Minister, said he joined this topic as the French say "Service minimum". So the least you can do under the law. On the contrary, I go Maximist for the sake of Croatia and for the good of the Croatian Parliament and for quality communication between the Government and the Croatian Parliament. As for continuity no, there is no continuity with your policy which within a week violates relations with all the countries in the neighborhood. Our policy will be a policy of dialogue that will avoid all crisis situations with neighbouring countries in advance and thus contribute and protect the EU's external borders and respect both Croatian and European and international rights and good neighbourly relations. Because this is the point of all the formats that have been made at EU level, were in the formats of several Member States and those who are not EU member states to prevent crisis situations where people who come from practically endangering their own lives are being treated in a more inhuman way and without the countries that have come to terms with the situation quality agreed before and prepared the scenarios. It is a responsible policy, it is a responsible policy that will protect both Croatia's national interest and approach humanely to those who unfortunately find themselves in a situation such as a large number, or hundreds of thousands of people found last year, and we will do all of this in the context of a broader approach to the overall solution. Without such access, there is neither correct nor quality cooperation with other countries in our environment, nor is there a solution to the long-term problem of the refugee-immigration crisis. And there all the resolutions will submit their part of the responsibility, prepare the documents and the government will rule and manage the process, not that the crisis manages the dynamics of bringing as we saw a year ago and a few days ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2622	I thank you for your reply to the replica. This concludes the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. And once again, I would like to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Plenkovic, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Stier and Minister Orepic for this new form of Croatian politics, for opening the door to a new good practice in reporting to the Croatian Parliament on meetings of the Council of the European Union. And all of you esteemed colleagues and colleagues warmly welcome. Tomorrow we will continue the debate and session at 9.30 p.m. with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law. Thank you very much and goodbye. Session interrupted at 18.40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2623	We are going to vote on the points discussed. Since we have established the quorum, we are moving to vote on the report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the European Council held on 20th. ... We should vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we are voting on the report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on a meeting of the European Council held on 20 and 21 October 2016. The debate was closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The report of the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be adopted on the meeting of the European Council of 20 and 21 October 2016. Please engage in the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2624	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is therefore a report which came as information to the Croatian Parliament. By the rules and the law we had at least once a year, we don't have to vote on the report, especially since we're going to get a report every month after what we heard about what's going on at the meetings. So I don't see why we should vote on information.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-10-26-0.u2625	I would pray that the same principle applied before. So all reports have been voted on before, as has been voted before this time. And I'd really like the Prime Minister to come to Parliament every month, hopefully, and then we'll vote every month. We will simply apply the principle that existed before in the Croatian Parliament. I would now ask that the vote be re-voted, to join the vote with that conclusion. The vote is over. I find that with 91 votes for, 23 abstentions and 3 against the adopted report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the European Council held on 20 and 21 October 2016.
