ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u168	... the topic of raising VAT rates in catering. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I'm looking for a flat on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u169	Okay. Representatives? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u170	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Live Wall Club, 10 minutes on the subject of the RBA cooperative mirage.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u171	Excuse me, can you just repeat that?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u172	I'm looking for a break in the name of the Live Wall club, 10 minutes on the subject of the RBA cooperative and the dissection that is taking place today in Zabok. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u173	Representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u174	The Club Change Croatia's SNAGA requires a 10-minute break for information from the EU court's ruling number C49/14, which is related to the executive proceedings in Spain but has ties to both us and to the course of criminal proceedings in criminal courts and to the High Criminal Court in connection with the punishment of banks for unlawfully determining interest rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u175	Pupovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u176	Mr. President. Just like a week ago when on behalf of the SDSS club, I was looking for a break of 10 minutes due to the occurrence of the devastation of the cemetery at the City Cemetery in Knin, I am now looking for the same reasons for the desecration of the cemetery in the City Cemetery in Pakrac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u177	Representative Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u178	Your Honor. On behalf of the IDS Club, I request a break on the subject of tax reform and its negative consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u179	Thank you. She's been granted a break. I'm sorry about Agent Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u180	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u181	All representatives who requested a break were granted a 10-minute break. Here's a representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u182	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u183	I'd like to ask the MPs to come. Thank you. It's 9:00.35. We're going back to work. The first of the MPs to report for the break is SDP club representative Siniša Hajdas Doncic. Mr. Representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u185	President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The SDP club primarily responds to a statement from the Ministry of Finance that we are definitely seeing is probably ultimately ultimate about raising VAT rates in the catering sector from the current 13% to 25%. We are also surprised that neither the Minister of Tourism nor the Minister of Agriculture, therefore it is precisely due to the placement of certain items, I will say agricultural products, so not only wine but also the instructions which make up the total tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia do not react. So our estimate is that the entire sector will lose about a billion kuna. The bitter reaction of tourist workers across Croatia is determined and the best message to the Government and the Minister of Finance, and I will complement the Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Agriculture that this announcement is definitely hasty and unacceptable to hit the sector that is growing rapidly at the moment, so it grows if we compete with other sectors twice as quickly, twice as much, twice as other economic sectors, for us it represents an unacceptable. And I think one of the engines of the overall economic recovery will slow down, and there's definitely no excuse for that right now. We are also interested in why most of the burden of this reform goes to poor citizens, so also with the announcement of raising VAT on bread, milk and medicine and exclusively to one of the most successful because tourism is not an economic branch but is actually... the economic branches why exactly on tourism and I'll tell the hospitality branch. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to stress that we should be aware of a few facts where this reckless reform measure, so-called. The reform measure can also bring about what it can bring. So above all, the inevitable rise in prices and the reduction in competitiveness of the catering sector. So the price rises if we look only at our own experiences. Here I am personally, instead of two Kraft beers or two Dragons or Welds, having one. And that won't be a problem for the state, because the state will get about the same VAT revenue, but it will be a problem for the food industry. producers. So I hope that the producers of agricultural products, as well as alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, will also raise their voice to this very reckless reform. Also, what is most important is that some business security or legal security or legal certainty which is definitely being violated by business relations and increases legal uncertainty because one part of the hotel and charter have actually already agreed on certain arrangements for next year, especially in the charter, and these are definitely changing prices precisely because of VAT. The third thing that is highlighted here is the risk of slowing down investment and making it difficult to collect already used loans, so also through HBOR and through business banks, and we can see from the data how much credit is actually placed in the tourism sector and there is, in fact, the most important then legal certainty, in fact, the safety of certain conditions that are not changing, some cetris paribus that must rule so I will tell the tourism sector. So our estimates say that thanks to the reduction in VAT from 25 to 10, so at the time of Zoran Milanovic's government then to 13%, that investments have increased by 2 billion kuna per year, from 2 to 4 billion kuna, and our assessment is that this measure threatens to slow down these investments again. About the indirect consequences of tourism as... the economic branches don't even need to talk, it's, of course, the reduced activity of the related sectors, above all, construction that, let's be honest only last year, a year and a half ago actually only fits on its feet, but there's the food industry, the trade, so all that's connected to tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's also our assumption that the grey economy will grow again and we're through... fiscalizations that were not ideal and still have a lot of work to do, yet some, I will say a step and we have not punished those people who have invested, paid bills and taxes and definitely created Croatia as a tourist destination, a tourist mecca that was competitive to countries in the environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the SDP club requires that this VAT rate be not touched, at the very least to suspend and delay the application of this measure in favour of Croatian tourist workers, caterers and the success of the national tourist season. And I wouldn't want this one good sector to be unearthed just for the government to close a vicious circle of its own, as someone has already called but I'm going to quote it superhic reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u186	Thank you, Agent Hajdash Doncic. The next club to take a break is the Living Wall, their representative Marin Škibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u187	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, thank you to the MPs. Today, the representatives of the Living Wall are at a raid in Zabok. It's the Doveban family from Zabok. They took a loan from the RBA cooperatives, they couldn't repay it, they even went to an agreement with the cooperative this summer, but they told them they had to pay an additional 90 euros. Regardless of all that, the house was auctioned and allegedly bought for 137 thousand kuna even though the value assessment was 600 thousand kuna. Meanwhile, their current was unplugged, which was reactivated after 4 months, and they now took tenants to the lower part of the house just to be able to pay the loan, 1000 kuna rent. The RBA cooperatives don't give up on mirage. So the issue of RBA cooperatives is a continuous issue that is repeated from each call, but solutions still do not exist. The Act amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act states under the scope of the contract and the consequences of the nullity of Article 19j ‘If the credit agreement was concluded by the creditor or credit intermediary who did not have the authorisation to provide consumer credit services or to intervene in consumer lending, the contract is invalid.’ RBA cooperatives definitely do not have the approval, the CNB did not give them permission. The postponement of Article 19.k.a. ‘If a request is made in the contract of credit with an international mark leads to an executive procedure against the consumer who has filed a claim for the purpose of finding no damage, the court will, on a proposal from the perpetrator, postpone the exercise until the final act has been brought to an end in order to determine the integrity of the case without examining the existence of any other legislation prescribed on the delay of the implementation on the proposed executioner’, I have here a document of the previous Government on the issue of RBA cooperatives and will now read the same. The proposer proposes that the Croatian Parliament draw up a conclusion in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take all legal measures from its work together with the CNB and the relevant authorities of the state administration to prevent the illegal activities of foreign legal persons in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and to prevent the implementation of the implementation of the property and eviction activities. Without delay, it shall take a decision suspending the conduct of the conduct and actions of the Austrian banks of Raiffeisen group over the property of the citizens of the users of the disputed loans until the investigation and judicial proceedings initiated on the basis of private claims of citizens and the legality of financial intermediation, business and credit relations and in order to protect Croatian citizens and to determine the criminal responsibility of participants in these legal matters. I also have a report from the Committee on Finance and the State Budget which the previous government also considered. And this is their conclusion: it says this would be the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be in charge of informing the Croatian Parliament through the Minister of Justice about the results of the investigation so far and all in order to protect our citizens who have become victims of these interest loans. And the question arises whether the intermediaries who did the job for Raiffeisen cooperatives were in Croatia at all? If they were then it's illegal because they didn't have permission to work. The conclusion also says the government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge that within the shortest period of time and no later than 15 days from the date of adoption of this conclusion, the Croatian Parliament has decided on what it has done on the protection of Croatian citizens who have borrowed loans from the Austrian group Raiffeisen cooperatives, who do not have the authority to work in Croatia, given the suspicion that Raiffeisen cooperatives in Croatia have worked illegally and that intermediaries who do their jobs in Croatia do not have the authority to do so. So regardless of all this that's been brought up by the RBA cooperative, they keep on going, our citizens are being thrown out into the street and we have to end it with legal proposals and law enforcement that will ban it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u188	I'd like to thank Agent Skiboli. The next club to be contacted is the club Let's change Croatia, Power. Their representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u189	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues under the radar have missed one EU court ruling. This is the April C49/14 verdict this year. That's exactly the verdict that leads to what my colleague Schibla was saying. In fact, the Spanish court demanded a grade. The previous issue, he demanded the EU court's response to the previous issue. The question was whether national law should be such as to prevent the court from examining during the exercise under official duty or at the request of the unfairness of consumer contract provisions. The EU court's answer is to laugh. So this is already settled with us, judges are allowed to and must examine, under official duty, the integrity of certain provisions or the unfairness of certain contractual provisions in accordance with the EU Directive and in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Relations. But what does it matter? It is important that this strengthens my proposal to prevent the execution of all properties that are burdened with mortgages agreed by contracts with illegal contractual provisions on how to change interest rates. So this strengthens this proposal of mine, and I wanted to point out precisely that this EU judgment is a very good indication that this is possible and that it should be done in this direction. The other thing I want to talk about is misdemeanor proceedings in criminal courts and in the High Court for illegal interest rates changes, for illegal interest rate manipulations, for the illegal way of determining parameters at variable interest rates. Therefore, after the misdemeanors had begun to punish banks, the Constitutional Court confirmed that the infringement provisions for the penalties of the constitutional banks had been raised, only changed the date of the infringement from 1 January 2014 to 1 April 2014. The EU's response was followed by the EU court, which answered the previous question at the request of the Bjelovar Criminal Court and found that these infringements are in accordance with EU law and that the EU's right does not prevent national law from acting in accordance with the infringement provisions. Therefore, banks are allowed to be punished despite the fact that the infringement provisions have been adopted in a way that applies to existing credit agreements. But what's going on? After a hundred first-degree rulings, the High Violent Court began to return those first-degree rulings back to rejuvenation, to the determination of facts, and the facts were very clear. Banks in contracts where the parameters for the change in interest rate have not been defined or harmonised or agreed with their debtors on a change in interest rate. So they continue to operate illegally. However, judges seem to be a little confused about all this, and now they're asking if maybe the bank has previously defined those parameters. Dear colleagues and colleagues are not enough to define the parameters if they do not agree. The law on mandatory relations is very clear. The contractual relationship between the two parties is a bilateral contractual relationship that depends on the will of both parties. It is therefore illegal to amend contractual provisions without the will of the other Contracting Party during a contractual relationship. And that is why there are also infringements according to which each bank that does not contract a variable parameter, a fixed part of the interest rate, will be punished by a penalty of 80000 to 200000 kuna. And the first-degree verdicts were that way and now the High Court of Violents is returning to decide perhaps otherwise. I'm not surprised why that's happening. On Friday, we witnessed that a CNB lawyer claims as a first point that the CNB is not in charge of the criminal prosecution of banks, which is not true, because the CNB has been infringingly taking action against banks during the conversion. The second claims that banks did not have to negotiate parameters at variable interest rates. I have the impression that banks are lobbying under the grain and that someone is listening to them. This reminds me of the Miladin case, where Professor Miladin, after a collective verdict at a seminar, claimed that it was impossible to determine how much damage the debtor was due because the bank illegally said that the changing manner was the way the interest rate was changed in an illegal manner. Therefore, it is high time that we adopted an emergency procedure for the legislative amendment of the Consumer Credit Act and established a methodology for determining the parameters for variable interest rates. I've already sent that proposal to Most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u190	I thank Representative Aleksic. The next club to take a break is the SDSS club, their representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u191	My colleagues, as I said in an announcement in search of a break on behalf of our club, the reason I'm checking in, and this time it's the same as the one a week ago, it's not the same place, it's not Knin, it's Pakrac. Namely, in the Orthodox cemetery in Pakrac, notices are placed on monuments that are of historical importance, such as this for prominent citizens and locals who were state officials, who were local officials and who are part of the history and part of the memory of that city, where, as in this grave place for the dead in Jasenovac, two adults and four children put this type of notice on which they say, “In accordance with Article 14 of the Law, this tomb is considered abandoned and can be assigned to use.” We understand that there is a need to charge municipal compensation, but this cannot be accessed. Otherwise, it will turn out that the technical-communal settlement of the issue of the collection of graves will become a way for communal-technically solving the removal of traces of the presence of Serbs in Croatian territory and thus defile what is most sacred to each of us, which is grave places. At times when we deal with the victims of World War II and when we create awareness of the responsibility to these victims, this kind of treatment seems extremely amoral. If this is our morale, then it is indeed a pit of our morale. And if we don't need to devote ourselves to this thing in a different way then not to the Serbs, but to the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u192	I would like to thank Mr. Pupovac. The next club that requested a break is the IDS club, their representative Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u193	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have a agenda with more than 30 points of various reports for 2014 and 2015. So, as usual, we deal in the past not with the future. I remind the President of the Parliament said he would return the dignity to the highest representative body and I believe that tax reform is an ideal topic for us to begin with. Tax reform concerns and will have an impact on the life of every Croatian population, so I am asking myself and each of us if we are really willing to take responsibility and insist that if it takes weeks, and I believe that we should discuss in this Croatian Assembly the effects of tax reform. To make decisions of such weight, and to have so many strangers without any answers, I find shortsighted, irresponsible, reckless, long-term harmful. Dear colleagues and colleagues, do we know what long-term impact and what result tax reform will have on the sustainability of the pension system. We don't know. In relation to the over-needed and fundamental curricula reform, we don't know about craftsmen and entrepreneurs, we don't know, compared to the national, economic component, we don't know. The only thing you know at this point is three things that worry and need urgent debate in the Croatian Parliament. First, citizens with smaller incomes, the socially sensitive groups of citizens who unfortunately have too many in our country, will get crumbs, and the wealthier groups of citizens that have much less to gain. Isn't it our duty and responsibility, dear colleagues and colleagues, to protect the vulnerable groups of our society? I don't see social sensitivity in these moves, and there's a bread and milk collection, I think it's saying enough for itself. Secondly, this change will have an impact on local budgets. Budgets are funded by kindergartens, schools, scholarships, social contributions, public transport, and we all fail that local environments have already made budgets under the law. And I'm asking you now, and what if something has to be cut tomorrow? Who will be the loser if the prices of kindergartens have to be raised if someone is denied a scholarship again by the poorest layers of society that receive crumbs in tax reform? Thirdly, by announcing a VAT increase in hospitality, I repeat, we literally bite the hand that feeds us. The proposed VAT increase for catering is not a issue of one coffee, the question is that this reduces the tourism sector by about 30% of the financial potential of investment, which does not valorise the added value of tourism, which is people, which generates less income in the state budget in the long term. In Croatia, rules and regulations are often changed too often, we are warned by craftsmen and entrepreneurs, potential investors, citizens, and then tomorrow we will wonder why there are no new investments, why there are no new jobs, why there are no new revenues, why our young are leaving the country. To make decisions from today to tomorrow without seeing the whole, without looking at the long-term effects, is least said irresponsible, and serious countries and serious states do not. Therefore, respected representatives of both the HDZ and the MOST and the Government and the Parliament are before you a fundamental obligation to bring the subject of tax reform to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible, and then it is our responsibility to establish clear, stable, sustainable rules that will protect the socially most sensitive groups of citizens, give the economy a new momentum and finally decentralise this system that we continuously impose and put additional obstacles on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u194	I thank Representative Sponzi. The next Club of Representatives who wished for a break is the HDZ Representatives' Club and their representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u195	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would say at first that this is the second time that we are looking for a break in the Croatian Parliament on tax reform although it has not yet come to the Croatian Parliament. I would like to say that this is the first time that a government is only two and a half weeks after being appointed and capacitated, to come up with one big, huge reform that will have a major impact on the economy, on the standard of Croatian citizens, on GDP growth, which on the other hand speaks about the capacitation of the government and to face problems in Croatian society, and that it has taken responsibility for state-leading immediately with such a major reform. I would remind us of all who have been in this Parliament for a little while longer, that the government of Zoran Milanovic has reduced its tax reform in the first year of the term of office to raising the VAT rate from 23% to 25%, and what this meant in the first years of the government of Zoran Milanovic, is best said by macroeconomic indicators of the GDP decline, the government's deficit is largely due to this government's tax reform. I must say on behalf of the HDZ Club that we will discuss this tax reform twice in the Croatian Parliament. I hope that the debate on the 16 proposed laws will already be available to us next week when the honourable MPs who came to the floor today and asked for a break will have the opportunity to take a look at the impact of all 16 tax laws that we will discuss here in the Parliament and make a final decision, and which laws will then really represent a full tax reform. At this point, you know very well that the tax system in Croatia characterises instability, frequent amendments to the law. Only income tax, profit tax and value added tax has been changed 47 times since the adoption of what is clearly an obstacle once safe, stable investment and investment in Croatia because the tax system that is unstable is often changed is certainly not an incentive to invest in Croatia. Therefore, with this tax reform that is complete, which is meaningful, which extends the tax base, we at the HDZ Club are certainly satisfied and we support it. First of all, I would like to say that a reduction in the overall VAT rate has been planned since 2018 by one percentage point, and then another by two percentage points. Exactly what counterpart Hajdash Doncic said, which is that there will be an increase in the rate of certain food products. But I want to make it clear that a union basket is not just a food product. If we're talking about bread and milk, then he's participating in a basket with only 4%. But that same union basket also cost a direct cost of both utility services and housing services. And when a reduction in VAT rate is observed precisely on those utility services that make up the directorial costs in the union basket, then the picture looks quite different, and through the calculation and discussion in the Croatian Parliament, we will determine whether the average Croatian household and household costs represent a higher burden of increasing VAT rates on bread and milk or, on the other hand, may relieve it through a reduction in VAT rates on the provision of municipal services and all other overhead costs that make up the union basket. So we need to think about it. And not to say that by reducing the VAT rate to agricultural production inputs, a reduction in the prices of agricultural products that also contribute to price reductions can be achieved in the following year. This was also about increasing VAT rates in catering. And it needs to be looked at completely. On the one hand, the redistribution of business, the redistribution of the costs of certain branches in the Republic of Croatia. We were talking about the Slavonia project in our election program. In this respect, a reduction in the profit tax rate should also be made through a reduction in VAT rates on inputs in agricultural production, and a further increase in VAT rates on catering services should also be considered. Although I must say that through the debate, which is already the tourism minister in this government has made certain proposals that can go towards improving the entire sector that felt affected by the VAT increase in catering. Therefore, I would ask all my colleagues to wait a few more days when we will have all 17 laws, I conclude, Mr. President, so we will be much more quantifiable in assessing this tax reform, which is as I have said complete and I think it will contribute to the overall development of the Croatian economy. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u196	I'd like to thank Agent Bačić. And the last representative to report for the break is the representative of the Most Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u197	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Here are some 10 days and more, regardless of what the topic is in the Croatian Parliament, sometimes by breaking the Rules of Procedure, we are discussing tax reform. Mr. Sponza said, dear colleague, that as soon as that tax reform comes here to this House so we can discuss it. So that's why Mr. Sponza, because we care about the most socially vulnerable and we have constructive conversations with our HDZ colleagues, wanting to see what effects will have on the socially endangered, Croatian tourism, what the effects of these legislative proposals are, have not yet come here in front of this House of Commons. So we take care of the socially endangered. I would talk here about a subject that is closely related to tax reform and which is why, and you are for it, you are here co-responsible, you have raised your hands for it, and you and your colleague, Hajdas Doncic, who spoke before you, so it's about the collection of electricity. Both the tax reform and the standard of Croatian citizens in the coming year are threatened because you raised your hands for it. Both you and Mr. Hajdash and the crew sitting here on my left. It means at the last session of Milanovic's government but the extraordinary session of the Parliament where, under cover of social benefits, the voucher took place, a robbery that is measured in billions of kunas. So in 2017 for the interests of individual groups and n the expense of Croatian citizens because such a decision has been made our industry will be less competitive and this robbery of Vrdoljak and Milanovic will be felt by every Croatian citizen on their skin. So next 2017 it is necessary to pay an incentive price of 2.1 billion kuna, which means a reduction of more than one billion kuna, means that it should be calmed down. And by 2020, 6.23 billion kuna is missing cumulatively. So this one I'd say a criminal enterprise was not enough to have just a minister of the economy, it was necessary to occupy the institutions, no one's talking about it. I'm surprised that the HDZ colleagues don't talk, this is one of the biggest robberies in Croatia's history that happened because you raised your hands for it and then you didn't think about the socially endangered. And MOST will take these facts seriously to mean that everything would be analysed and then bring the best possible tax reform to take care of the socially endangered.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u198	I'd like to thank my representative, Grumoja. With that I would really ask MPs to try to choose words at a time when they have the opportunity to speak in the Parliament. Since we have exhausted all the breaks requested by parliamentary representatives, we continue with the agenda. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Articles 232 to 238 have been broken, several of them, but the bottom line is that you shouldn't ask an advocate not to insult, because here they used the words “a robbery”, it can be figurative, stylish, slightly leprosy of Grumia, O.K., but a criminal enterprise, I think these are insults and I think you should at least warn the MP that this is not how they are expressed because then someone might suspect in the ability of the Most, since they have been managing that sector for a year, why they haven't changed it. So why, if you're so capable, why didn't you stop Mr. Grmoy in a year's time? You and Mr. Panenic. [[Intruder President: Representative Maras.]] Why aren't you? ... And you have a clue, don't you? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what you showed me.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u200	Agent Maras, thank you for warning of a possible breach of the Rules of Procedure. I also warned the representative of the bush as I gave others some freedom and, of course, that in time, I would ask you the same as I will over time continue to adhere more and more strictly to Mr Maras, adhere to the Rules of Procedure as you will and see hope not to taste. Since we've exhausted this part, we move on to the following point: Since we have exhausted this part we move to the following point: - Annual financial report by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2015. The applicant shall be the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development under Article 22. Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Due to the scope of the report, they are on the Assembly website, and one copy in writing has been delivered to representatives' clubs. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Dusan Tomaševic, president of the HBOR administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3456	Dear President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament allow me to brief you in front of HBO on the results of my business in 2015. The annual financial report submitted to the Croatian Parliament for approval has been revised by the independent audit firm Ernst & Young. In its report, the auditor gave a positive opinion on the consistency of the 2015 financial report with the relevant financial and accounting legislative framework adopted and in force in the Republic of Croatia and the EU. I would like to remind you that, to date, the operation of the HBOR was under the supervision of the State Audit. The latest report of the State Audit was carried out in 2014 and, after each audit, made unconditional opinions which, with the annual audit of independent audit firms as well as the positive assessments of international rating agencies are now... indicates the transparency of business and reporting of HBOR. Before I inform you about the financial results, I would refer to HBOR's business activities in 2015. For the first time in 2015, the bank exceeded the number of 2000 credits granted and the credit activity achieved was the second largest of the draft bank. The highest amount in 2012 was 10.2 billion kuna when programmes A and A+ were implemented. This Decision shall HBOR supported the Croatian economy with 12.2. billion kuna. By way of credit, 7.8 billion kuna has been placed, a guarantee of 3 billion kuna and an export business of 1.5 billion kuna has been issued. The increase in credit activity was recorded in all segments and the most active users of HBOR credits were small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who were granted 2147 loans or 94% of the total number of loans granted in the amount of 3 billion and 180 million kuna, which is for a billion kuna or 51% more than in 2014. Export and tourism credit also records an increase of 14%. Export insurance registered a 45% growth compared to 2014. In 2015, the banks supported Croatian exporters with a total of 6.8 billion kuna through lending, insurance, issuing export... guarantees. With an increase in credit activity, it is also a very significant indicator of the increase in the share of investment loans to 82%. This share of HBOR investment loans was not recorded even in the periods prior to the financial economic crisis and the same result of a series of measures to strengthen investment such as the reduction of interest rates, the extension of credit repayment deadlines and other measures implemented. The change in trend is a positive indicator that is certainly positive for GDP. By observing the activities supported by the Bank in the past year, the most represented production activities are the food industry, metal-processing, electricity industry, chemical and chemical production, the first wood industry, agriculture, fisheries and in services tourism is the most represented. A total of 23.6% of the amount of credit was approved for projects in industry, 19.8% for tourism, and the other branches of construction, agriculture, fishing, trade, etc. were present. The figures achieved are the result of a series of new measures taken by HBOR last year. We remind you that HBOR has extended the duration of the temporary reduction of interest rates by 1% for new investments in 2014 with the aim of helping economies. The measures have been extended for 2016 and we are considering extending it for 2017. New lending programmes have been introduced to facilitate and encourage the absorption of EU funds and new programmes aimed at crediting the production of project and other investment documentation. The HBOR currently implements 31 lending programmes which publicly and transparently describe all possible customers, conditions and criteria of the bank's lending. All of the European Investment Fund concluded a guarantee agreement under the... Competitiveness and Innovation Programme and launched the implementation of a new microcredit programme with the support of the EU, which allowed entrepreneurs to borrow from a dozen, up to a dozen employees, with a reduction in credit insurance conditions. With the aim of increasing the speed and availability of certain HBOR loans, it has started to implement framework business loans to banks, and the novelty is also co-operation with Leasing houses. Of the 7.8 billion kunas granted loans, 43% were granted through business banks and 57% by direct lending to users. As is visible, the bank increases the share of direct lending from year to year and in response to a reduction in the availability of long-term credit financing in the domestic economy, especially in certain target groups such as small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, exporters and tourists, or tourism. The HBOR, as an counterweight to the reduced credit activity of business banks, despite the example of other development and export banks, continues to seek to maintain co-operation with business banks, since the same is a prerequisite for maintenance and sustainable financial monitoring of domestic entrepreneurs. As regards financial operations and results in 2015, HBOR achieved a financial result of 205.2 million kuna in the last year. The result achieved is 22% higher than in 2014. The greater profit achieved in 2015 is the result of the largest part of the expenditure cut by 37.8 million kuna. Interest income generates 98% of total income in 2015 and is lower by 3% compared to 2014. This trend is primarily the result of the implementation of the lower interest rates measures implemented by the Bank since 2012 and will affect the movement of interest revenues in the future. It should be pointed out that the Bank sought to support all new investments in industry, agriculture, tourism and energy efficiency through the maintenance of the implementation of the lower interest rate measures, and positive results are visible in the previous figures. The interest costs account for 2/3 of the total expenditure, and in 2015 they are a 3% reduction compared to fourteenth as a result of the use of credit lines of specific financial institutions such as EIB, CEB, World Bank, as well as a decrease in HBOR's debt levels in 2013, 14 and 15 years. During the three years, HBOR regularly and temporarily paid more than 5 billion kuna. First of all, we are talking about the temporary closure of credit obligations which are less favourable in the current market conditions from the aspect of the price and manual. In accordance with the Bank Act, the overall financial result is allocated to the statute reserves and thus strengthens the capital base of the bank and enables further strengthening of the bank's business activity and taking on greater risk. The total assets of HBOR on 31.12.2015 amounted to 25.5 billion kuna and decreased by one percent compared to the beginning of the year. The most significant result of the higher repayment of credit liabilities than the withdrawal of debt assets is the reduction of assets. It is certainly necessary to point out that in 2015 HBOR preserved the quality of the portfolio and 86.6% of portfolios are fully charged. 10.8% are partially charged and 2.6% are non-income and non-income. The rate of fully charged placements has been increased by 1.3% compared to 2014 and this leads to sound management of HBOR's credit activity and good banking practices. Partly chargeable and non-chargeable placements are primarily paid. Debtants over whom bankruptcy proceedings have been opened totalling 73 debtors with a claim amount of 570 million kuna. Debtants who have requested the opening or are in the process of resolving the pre-departure settlement in total 72 debtors with the amount of the claim of 768 million kuna. The debtors with whom the restructure negotiations are being conducted, and the mourned debtors. Finally, I would add that in 2015, the RH paid the Bank’s founding capital EUR 32.9 million for what it did and during this year a month ago. And to the height of 7 billion founding capital, another 460 and some million kunas are missing. Since we are almost at the end of 2016, let me briefly present to you the main achievements of this year. In the first three quarters of 2016, we continued with accelerated credit activities, 11% more, 11% more than the previous year, and this year's approved loans are recorded as growing by 47%. Over 9 months we approved 6.3 billion kuna loans and supported over 2,000 projects. We've issued guarantees worth over a billion kuna and secured 890 million export jobs. For the purpose of developing favourable financing for Croatian businessmen, we have obtained 400m euros from the European Investment Bank. It has just made it possible to cooperate with specific financial institutions to make the bank more favourable to the conditions of lending of domestic entrepreneurs and at times of the past economic crisis. In September, we started carrying out the lending of innovative entrepreneurs with the necessary guarantee of the EIF, i.e. the European Investment Fund. Already now very favourable interest rates for innovative small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are lower by 0.422 to 0.572 base points. Within this product, the bank has contracted credit... of 20 million euros, the implementation model will include direct bank financing through existing lending programmes, thus facilitating the implementation of this product. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] HBOR is involved in the Youth Employment Initiative launched by the European Investment Bank, through which the investment of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, education and skills as well as the employment of young people is financed. The main feature of the initiative is savings at the interest rate. The total interest rate reduction shall be 50 basis points and shall apply to the 15 bank's programme irrespective of whether the credit is granted directly or through a business bank. In cooperation with the Croatian National Bank, preparations for the process began in 2016... The implementation of which should begin on 1 April 2017 means a review of the quality of HBOR's assets. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] I believe that I managed to present to you all our achievements in 2015 and 2016 as well. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3457	I thank Mr. Tomasevic. The first person to report for the replica is representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3458	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his debate, Mr Tomaševic highlighted the results of the HBOR in the past and this year. And what makes me especially happy is the increase in credit to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and what he particularly stressed several times in the exposure that we listened to carefully is investment in tourism. This is also seen in the 2015 report where on page 22 of the five, six projects that have been highlighted as I would say those most likely to be praised and proud. So out of these five projects, even four are directly related to tourism. Why am I saying this? Because of what many projects, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs financed through the HBOR, are at stake with the said and already discussed tax reform of HDZ and MOST. Because if you're doing a business plan for the next 10, 15 years and suddenly overnight without consulting the interested public, you're politically willing to raise 12% of the cost from 13 to 25% of these plans no longer apply. And what are we coming to, what situation are we in? We come first that our entrepreneurs will probably have big problems paying out to HBOR, secondly, that today, at this point or in 2017, new projects will not be reported because it will no longer be so cost-effective and will not be possible in any way to finance the project and, of course, it will reduce HBOR's credit activity because people will not ask for that money. So we're doing damages with HDZ and MOST tax reform, and most of all in this example we can see about tourism or about those projects that the HBOR has funded over the past year.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3459	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3460	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Tomaševic, I would first of all like to commend your credit activities, a turn towards the exporters, because this is the right way to get the Croatian economy out of the crisis. And he would ask the question in view of these 17.5% of bad loans, how much of these 17.5% refers to loans granted to micro-small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and how much to those loans granted to large entrepreneurs and to which amounts are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3461	The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3462	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Tomasevic. These percentages are nice to say when 53% of credit increases are said to be compared to the previous year for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. But when we look at that it's only 128 of those who used it, then I wonder what it was a year ago, if it's 53% increase? I'm a little interested in what the situation is now, whether some conditions have changed because there's been a lot of problems about the conditions themselves, regulations that are even made with the lending of who can get all the credit. What concerns me in this report is the fact that you yourself pointed out that agricultural loans were among that group Others, and in fact, HBOR would, after all those discussions and discussions that were supposed to be the main credit institution for agricultural production, what was going on, why in 2015, agricultural loans are in the category Others? Because there was no interest, or was there something else?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3463	I'd like to thank Representative Hrg. The first club to report for participation in the debate is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and their representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3464	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed president of the HBOR administration, colleagues and colleagues. After a series of reports we received in the Croatian Parliament, this is a report that contains some of the positive and encouraging elements. It is a pity that these positive encouraging elements could not have come sooner or better to say that they had not come sooner. So as far as the SDSS Club is concerned, priority areas of action that recognise HBOR and which are dedicated to its credit policy are developmental incentives for the foundation and development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, given that over 90% of our total entrepreneurship actually falls within the category of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is of paramount importance and of exceptional importance. The same applies to the promotion of exports, the development of tourism, the financing of agricultural development and, in particular, to the promotion of the use of EU funds as well as innovation and the development of new technologies. The information we received in this report that I said was most encouraging and positive, that the bank was lending, either by providing export claims and issuing guarantees supported 2.589 projects by Croatian businessmen and provided a total of 12 billion 400 million kuna compared to 2014, HBOR supported 127% more projects with twice the amount compared to 2014. This is an extremely significant step and an extremely significant newspaper, 2.5% higher, let's just take credits, so the total is approved in 2015. 2.285 loans worth 7.8 billion kuna of which 7.3 billion relate to newly approved loans, which is twice as much as 2014. That's encouraging. And we don't really know what happened at the bank that that turnaround was going on, but I'm still going to go back to that question. Other important and significant data that can be seen from charts on page 10 that monitors the relationship between investment and investment in craft between 2010 and 2015. And it can be seen that there was a complete shift, in 2010 about 80% of the funds went to trade, the credit went to trade and only 20% to investment. Now the thing is completely reversed. It's a very significant indicator, an extremely important indicator of change in our economy, in our economy. Whether it reflects the overall state, I can't say it, but this picture indicates or points to an extraordinary increase in investment flows within our economy. One more thing is very encouraging. So over the last 10 years, Croatia's largest number of discounts for reconstruction and development went through business banks. You during this period, so compared to 2014 and 2015, you managed to reverse it so that 57% of the plasma is also going directly. What, of course, makes banks, users, citizens, entrepreneurs more accessible and probably cheaper. And I'm quite sure faster when it comes to the process of winning. Also, the number of new employees in projects supported by HBOR is almost 3.3 thousand, which means 59% more than in 2014. These are extremely important and extremely encouraging facts. We also welcome the policy of reducing interest rates. So the temporary rate reduction measures from 1% point to 1%, for new investments, they're either fully operational or they can act or they've acted stimulatingly to show the data we just acquired. And the fact that these loans can be obtained within 17 years with a start of 2 to 3 years also provide one type of guarantee security for all those entering risky investment operations. The same for beginner exporters where the interest rate is about 2% and for economic lending programmes where the 6% rate is excluded and the remaining rates are only 2 out of 4% and the average rate of 3%, respectively. In the case of an investment to which a temporary reduction measure applies. The question arises, Mr. Tomasevic, why not before? What prevented management from doing so in 2014? Is there an unfavourable political situation, any other reasons? But there is no doubt that these measures are extraordinary and the effects that I was talking about at the beginning are evident. The introduction of new programmes and changes to the existing ones especially when an increase in the absorption capacity of EU funds and EU funds is on Wednesday, we have often discussed this on another topic. And it can be seen that when funds are allocated Wednesday to help with EU projects that the amount of these projects is only about 150 or so, the number of projects, the amount of funds is somewhere around 7 hundred million kuna, which is compared to 3 billion kuna and some kunas that were provided through most loans is not a small amount, but is a small number of loans. In other words, instead of multiplying and increasing the multiplication of the use of EU and European funds, we are actually finding the least part of the project malformation with EU funds still here. Which shows that the competent ministries of agriculture, development in particular and European funds, the economy in general, must come up with a specific strategy with you in general how to increase it. But not to talk like we talk about every time more or less when that topic comes to this occasion or some close occasion in the assembly than to really figure out a way that number from 150 or 160 of some 2500 projects is going to increase to at least 500. Your decision to help draw up a project documentation, your decision to help lower the 3% rate is in any case welcome. It is especially to welcome this decision of yours to finance the project documentation. In some areas and in some cases, this represents an insurmountable and uncontrollable obstacle for people who would like to move into some kind of development project either in agriculture, whether in tourism, environmental protection or small entrepreneurship, non-governmental. What I think Mr. Tomasevic should be concerned about is the question of what to do with education. What we're going to do and how we're going to secure funds to help people not pay money I won't say anything bad and I don't mean anything bad when I'm talking about private companies that charge education services. They should exist and there is no doubt that they should be encouraged to have more because that is the way they are employed and that is the way they are encouraged to develop. But as you provide incentives to funds, as you ensure the sharing of risk to banks so it would be good to design a program here that would work in that direction that these people who have an idea but fear is stronger than that idea, the lack of funds is much greater than that idea. The total amount of funds for small and medium-sized enterprises used by HBOR is 3.2 billion or by project number is 94% of the project requirements submitted if I read your report correctly. Therefore 2285 applications, i.e. requests received, processed applications and procedural requirements. Of that little entrepreneurship 2147, so 94%. But when you look at the amount of collateral, then there's a huge difference, a huge difference between those at the beginning, so 12.4 billion or 7.8 billion in credit. So these 4.6 billion if it goes towards infrastructure, which is also our necessity and our necessity that the assumption of the development of any more serious branch of the economy such as roads was a presumption of tourism so the railways must be a presumption of any other kind of economic development. What do you do to make this ratio better? What do you do to make the correlation between the fact that almost 95% of our economy makes small and medium entrepreneurship? Mr. Maras certainly knows it better than I do, so he'll correct me if I'm wrong in some percentage, including you, Mr. President of the administration. But the correlation of secured loans for small and medium-sized enterprises and what is in the portfolio is still disproportionate to that share in our economic portfolio when it comes to small entrepreneurship. What do you do to make that change? And I'm going to leave less than a minute for what's special about the club I represent and whose name I'm talking about. These are areas that go below the radar, from Beli Manastir to Obrovec, to which banks will not give credit, to which the HBOR cannot lend credit because there are no prepared and designed programmes or has a special one that would deal with reducing the risks of poor placements and poor credit collection and poor credit performance. What should we do in this area if we know that these areas are traditionally agricultural areas? If we know that these are traditional areas for the development of the forest industry, if we know that the good part of these areas today is, as is the case in Istria, expanding the potential of tourism services already existing tourist capacities and creating new ones? And that is why we invite you to consider what to do to make this radar lower, that these spaces be covered and that the bank, in the right sense, be a development bank and for those who are completely underdeveloped. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3465	I would like to thank Mr. Pupovac. Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3466	Thank you very much, Mr. Pupovac. Since you invited me, I'll tell you. So 99% of companies with fewer employees, 250 in the Republic of Croatia are in the criteria they meet to be small and medium-sized enterprises. So that ratio that you wanted to point out is even bigger but I realize that HBOR cannot only follow that I would say, this dynamic and this number of loans to companies per share of the company, given that large companies are in the most common case and users of large investments, large businesses heading towards exports. So it's normal for HBOR to have a slightly smaller amount based on small and medium-sized enterprises but it's good to have it at all to the extent that it has it and it's good to do it directly. You have not pointed out but I will highlight it in my debate, 60% of HBOR's loan is now giving directly. So they dramatically increased the operation or avoided the lending through banks and that is something we should commend with HBOR and should insist that they do even more in the future. Because before that ratio, 4.5 years ago, that ratio was 20.30%. They doubled it. So they do a lot of work towards direct placement, they work a lot towards small and medium-sized companies and they do a lot of work according to what you said in areas that are less developed. You'll notice that they've also made certain branches in these very areas. So they also have in Lika, and in Gorski Kotar that cover the area so that people can come more easily where the market, lending or financial institutions are not so developed. So there are certain shifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3467	I'd like to thank Agent Maras. Since there is no response to the replica of the next club that reported for participation in the debate is the SDP Representatives' Club and their representative, MP Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3468	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago, we had a report by the governor on the financial situation in the Republic of Croatia, where most of the report concerned the business of the banking sector in the Republic of Croatia in 2015. Today we have before us the Annual Report of the HBOR, meaning one of the banks that participates in this financial market. When you look at these two reports, the report given by the Governor on the bank's business and the report here on Croatia's bank, reconstruction and development, you will see the diametrically completely opposite policy of the banking sector and responsibility in the Republic of Croatia. When you look at what the business banks have been doing, and all the time I've been talking about social responsibility here, and through this and the governor's social responsibility to this business and the impact of monetary policy on the development of the economy, you'll see through concrete figures that are right and the only way for the economy to turn around and which are actually the right policies. Here something was actually introductive and said in that part that HBOR was one of its measures he made certain decisions on reducing interest rates and that the average interest rates in forming for certain programmes of the Department of Economy to move between 2% and 4%. When you look at the business banks that are operating on the financial market today, their average interest rates are between 6.8, not to say more than 10%. You have business banks that finance Croatian entrepreneurs by 10% and you have HBOR which finance Croatian entrepreneurs with the amount of 2 to 4%. Now, let's go back to the quality of the business bank portfolio and the quality of the Croatian Bank's portfolio for renovation and development. The quality of HBOR's portfolio here, as spoken, means average, means those non-income loans, so-called. The NPLs that bankers like to call them so-called. non-performing lons or non-income loans in this part are moving total, so that's those B and C categories that B are partially compensateable and C that are not compensateable is moving somewhere around 13.4%, here somewhere around the amount of just over 4 billion kuna. When you look at what these non-income loans in the banking sector are between 25% and 30%, or the construction sector over 50%. At the level of all Croatia, you have 17%. Why? Because they're so-called. The NPLs in citizens somewhere around 10% to 12% and they're pulling the whole part where the entire business sector, yes and the entire banking sector, have no such large share of bad placements but that it moves between 16% and 17%. However, if that part is allocated, because they do not finance citizens, they only finance entrepreneurs. And when you compare HBOR to their respective clients, it means bad plasmas from 12 to 13%, and the banks that have 30% are asking the question, so who's crazy, who's normal? And again, it binds to that part of the interest rate, re-connects to that part of the interest rate, and the sources of HBOR financing are in their passive range of about 1% to 2%, and they place the entrepreneurs between 2% and 4%. So that's HBOR's business policy. And there's only 12% bad placements. Business banks give you zero percent on savings, they place 10%, so all that difference, and they've got low rates of 30%. Absolutely completely diametrically opposed policies and huge social irresponsibility for the Croatian economy. So just by reducing interest rates, just by reducing interest rates at the time of the recession, at the time of the economic crisis, it actually gave entrepreneurs the opportunity to actually get their breath back. And that's exactly the kind of policy that opened up the possibility of having less uncharging loans. Well, that's actually the point of banking business, to lower those interest rates when it's not, actually when the economy isn't good, when the economy isn't going bad. And they actually look at it in their financial reports where they have a much better portfolio quality than they have the same business banks. And the whole time we've been setting up such an economic policy, or monetary policy, when we're on this side causing criticism against the governor and monetary policy to be seen as some kind of personal attack on the governor, which is not true. So we're talking about policies that show here through this financial report that it shows what the basic purpose of the banking sector is for the economy, which is to finance exports, it's to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, it's to finance all EU projects that contribute to both the infrastructure and the development of Croatian society, and not to finance some of their own, which I have repeatedly said, their individual friends, who only a hundred of them can't pay back 6 billion kuna to Croatia. And then the whole concept of banking operations in Croatia is set up in this report by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which should be the social responsibility of both the Croatian National Bank and the banking sector in relation to the Croatian economy. Because this is the only path that's right, the only way that we're going to have full employment, that we're going to have higher rates of economic growth. All the other policies that actually showed that they were wrong, and they are wrong in these figures that we prove that all the policies that foreign owners brought to the Republic of Croatia were exclusively the policies of their bonuses. It was exclusively a policy of bonuses, fast profits, profits at a difference in price and what happens after that, they do not respond but return to their home countries. And finally, a higher capital contribution has HBOR than a business bank. HBOR has 206 million kuna net profit compared to theirs is 2%. Business banks in this year are at a loss, in a minus, meaning in a minus not only because of the Swiss franc but are at a disadvantage because of their poor placements in relation to social responsibility, in relation to the financing of the economy. And now the question arises, what would be in the Croatian economy, and they have a total asset of 25 billion kuna, 25 billion kuna is a total of some kind of HBOR property. What would be the Croatian society, the Croatian economy, that these 400 billion that are also active in the banking sector have the structure of investments such as HBOR? What would be Croatian would have 10% economic growth, because they finance exports, because they finance industry, because they finance environmental protection, means all of those projects that should bring growth and employment to Croatia and finance at rates of 2 to 4%. So they finance at rates that Croatian entrepreneurs can return, can be competitive. No economy can be competitive with an average interest rate of 10%, no economy, it can only bring back arms trafficking and drug trafficking. No economy can give you a 10% return rate. And then when we listen to the governor that it's all good and that honey and milk is on this kind of financial report and then he has to suffer criticism precisely because the entire monetary policy was not in the function of developing the Croatian economy is that this policy is actually in full employment. This is what we actually discussed together and with colleagues from MOST, which is the basic function of our society is employment. And it's the function of all the institutions that work on it, not a certain price stability that's only sincerely apparent. Take what stability the price is over the next ten years, and you'll see that we don't have that price stability either. And that is why I hope that you will continue with the HBOR policy even stronger in financing exports and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. However, there is a particular problem, there is a problem that is being monitored, and that is where the European Commission has put additional monitoring over HBOR. And now the question is why? Were these certain policies of business banks that went without saying not to sue the state's funding to be financed through this part through HBOR, financing. Why? Because you see that the ratio of fixed loans has changed, that 57% of loans are now financed directly, not more through banks and that HBOR becomes a serious competitor to some business banks in the Republic at interest rates of 2 to 4% where it takes one part of the cake and operates on the correct and correct economic basis. And then it happens that from the European Commission the first things that come to us are that HBOR must be part of the central state. That's going to open up the question to you and HBOR is already, I think we're one of the few countries where they pushed it where they pushed HBOR under our central budget policy, meaning reporting into the share of public debt. The question is, how do you finance? And here the issue of Juncker's plan and the financing of projects and foreign European Investment Bank that should raise the economy and finance these projects to be competitive, to withdraw funds from the EU, and we will not be able to. Why? Because they put HBOR's policy under public debt policy. The question is, are they doing this in other development banks in Europe? They're not working. And this is now an open question how are we going to answer is the question of the development bank's function if it will be limited to the budgetary functions that they have given you from Mastricht that in that part of the debt and deficits and their business has been completely pushed under the budget. I think in that context we need to talk, I don't think that's right. If other development banks come to Europe, if KFV and other German development banks come because all European countries have such development banks that are not included in their system and deficits and public debt, will this limit the business of the HBOR in the future. It has been seen that its policies support those areas where simple market mechanisms have shown that they have failed. It's an example of exports, here we're told that we have 84 here today there have been speeches in the report it seems to me somewhere about 84 credential bank guarantees for our entrepreneurs' export business in winning export markets somewhere around 2 billion kuna. The question arises that the banking sector no longer wants to finance exports because certain restrictions have come to them, there have been certain restrictions and total export banking business is turning towards HBOR which is unfortunately not enough capacity to cover the entire aspect of our export policy, there is not enough capacity for it to have only 25 billion assets, only 9 billion have capital compared to 400 billion of the entire banking sector which has completely moved away from the financing of the export policy. And here there have been a number of projects, here some unannounced, that's building our construction operation that works in Algeria, so in Africa, a civil operation that was in Norway, Albania, in Kosovo also our pharmaceutical products sold in Russia, also our export ships that we export around the world. So the question is how will they be able to achieve even higher growth rates if they are now limited through HBOR by their further funding and business banks no longer want to follow them because they simply broke down in their policies in a whole other segment of business and did not finance growth, did not finance what creates employment, did not finance what creates jobs, because they could not have had such a bad portfolio, such a bad portfolio that they invested and invested in industry but rather invested in companies that have 0 employees, which do not have employees, in empty project societies where a certain profit should be quickly turned, or where a bonus should be quickly made, where bonuses should be quickly earned. And if you follow the reports of independent auditors talking about the bank's business exclusively talking about bonus policy, that's all. And that is, if we in this House can't talk about what functions the banking sector really is, and that's why we're always talking about the governor that in this section we have to look at how social responsibility is talked about, how you can see that this greed, greed for bonuses, greed for making a fast profit has actually damaged the Croatian economy, and because of that all the time I'm saying that the bill to the bankers should have been exposed by a Croatian state like other countries did in Iceland, America and other countries, they've made an account for their social responsibility because Croatia will actually continue to suffer their irresponsible policy for the next 10 to 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3469	Thank you. The replica was answered by representative Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3470	Dear Mr. Lalovac, there was talk about HBOR, but there are some things in HBOR that happened in the SDP era that concerned the lending of EPH Holding, or Ninoslav Pavic. What was that about? I'll say it soon. Namely, what's the matter? The loan in the amount of I think 11.5 million kuna is a day to EPH with a mortgage, watch this, with a mortgage on their building in Odranska. That was the seventh mortgage on the same building. Gentlemen of the SDP, the 7th mortgage and it was clear that Ninoslav Pavić, or EPH, would not be able to repay even the 1st loan to Hypo Bank. What they're going to say is that those who gave HBORA-EPH Holding credit knew that this loan would not be returned. And what happened? Then they said the mortgage wasn't enough as insurance, of course it wasn't, and then they said as a license to the Doctor magazine in the house. So the doctor in the house's license received HBOR as a guarantee, an insurance loan of $11.5 million. The question arises why no one went to jail for that. Why SDP is not responsible people who have affected such decision-making put in jail. And the answer is that they praised the character and the work of Slavko Linić and that they supported your authority, although it was clear that the decisions made were wrong. And that's one big shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3471	Thank you. Replication response, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3472	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so I must admit that I have heard of this information for the first time, and we should certainly refer it to the administration and ask for detailed information if you consider that there has been something past the procedure approved by the HBOR. While I was there and participated, such loans were not granted and I don't know what year it was, was it 2011 but certainly what you consider to have been given beyond the procedure and past certain HBOR policies that you can certainly ask for information from the administration and in writing and certainly if you consider that something, the laws that have been broken, absolutely support such an attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3473	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3474	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Col. Lalovac, HBOR must become and should be a key development, for faster development of the Republic of Croatia mainly in the economy. The fact is that the monetary policy of the Republic of Croatia is essentially so made that commercial banks are essentially slowing down and holding back the development of that economy mainly through loans to small, medium and entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia, which is not in other countries of Brix example in our environment. Also one key problem is during your government and all governments is decentralisation in the regional areas of HBOR where in areas that are far from Zagreb, simply entrepreneurs are not in the same conditions and because of documentation and because of the various possibilities they have in Zagreb are simply not in the same possibilities. Why has it not been done so far that entrepreneurs across the area have the same rights, by decentralisation of the HBOR for restoration and development where we have a number of people working here exclusively in Zagreb, what has been done during your government? And what do you suggest about what you should do because you were Minister of Finance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3475	Thank you, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3476	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you saw that and what we've all confirmed here is the right way to get HBOR, unfortunately for many years it's only been a transmission with business banks. So basically everything the HBOR approved, it approved of certain risk divisions and very few had direct loans. What is now trying to change here, this trend that HBOR is more on its own, because they have to work for it and create additional capacity and staff teams to be able to approve the placements past business banks. What you have touched on this question, Mr. Pupovac, also, I think it is one question where everyone here should agree then because these are areas that can't, unfortunately, through business banks and unfortunately, through HBOR either cannot meet certain conditions to get a certain portion of the funds because there is a very high risk of not returning such loans. However, here I could agree if they were, and we tried through HAMAG and through other agencies that especially such areas that are economically not making certain profits and in that part that determines a certain part of the money may also be through the HBOR policy that this part of the money will be financed for it, but then we have to be aware that the return on such money will not be so good because there was a talking about agriculture, it seems to me only in these placements towards HBOR when we discussed that there is a very high amount of loans in agriculture that are not returning, which are not returning. And then the question needs to be asked so that later it won't be said again if someone had been favored. If we choose such a policy for some rural places where we know I can't get back something bigger then to say very clearly and transparently that there's a whole risk and not that there's a risk to the administration that simply in this context and can't take such a huge risk if you don't charge me a billion or 2 billion kuna and you've placed yourself in such areas. But if we agree here and through the amendments to the HBOR Act I will support you in this work.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3477	Thank you, Agent Lalovec. The next club of representatives who reported for participation in the debate is the club of representatives of the Independent Lists. On their behalf, MP Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3478	President of the Parliament, the esteemed president of the HBOR administration, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are now at the end of 2016, the latest report for 2014 we discussed in this house that was the beginning of this year. So more than a year has passed since the end of 2014, now we're almost back that it's been almost a year and somehow all that data and all these discussions, then we should discuss the report for that year and we let today actually wait for it to come here and now we can look for guilt but we should certainly determine which direction it's going in and that these reports go more urgently and the government's procedure and come here. And when we discuss that it is not only a reference to a report that was a year ago, it is also one direction and one political support or one political disagreement that will show this home to a reporting institution. And I look forward to the information that the president of the administration has provided. We already have a nine-month report showing an increase in the number of loans, an increase in the number of entrepreneurs participating, and so that's actually a new direction, and I'm glad that I just participated in the government that this year set. This was one of the priorities and I am glad that the HBOR also introduced measures to facilitate the availability of these loans to entrepreneurs. And just in that direction and it has to keep going, that's the direction it's going to be repositioned, this is where the bank itself was already mentioned, and it needs to become a real development bank, a state development bank that will have experts and a depoliticized management that will be the Supervisory Board. Not only are politicians placed in office but they will also be professional not only in the financial banking sector but also professional in the business sector. Because there is always a question of whether the banking sector has an understanding, whether it understands entrepreneurship and this direction if there will be enough entrepreneurs who have that background. It will definitely help both the work and the quality of the HBOR funds. And that's why it's necessary to throw out some of the political directions that we have, the policy of course that's the direction, that's one macroeconomic direction, that's one of the support that we feel, that we talk to entrepreneurs, but we need to have experts on a healthy basis to direct the development of the bank. And that's why we are also in MOST against this excessive political impact on the bank because if I take the data, here I hope it's right that on April 13th, HBOR we have 2.1 billion kunas earned and not charged loans. And what's interesting is a lot of them can and can connect with politicians. I would list only five that are listed there that owe a fifth of that total, nearly 400 million kuna of Puris 93 million kuna since 2005, so we have an IMPULSCOMMERCE 112 million in 2005, Farm Jelas 47 million in 2005, Nasice cement, Eurocable. So this just speaks of the fact that it seems that there was no respect for internal procedures, that there was a rush, that the procedures were speeding up, that it was just trying to place a loan to those who were similar. And it seems that this model is very successful, and I'm sorry that MOST has not been before, because it certainly couldn't have been applied in other affairs. And here's what I'm going to remind you, actually, my colleague Maras said about energy, so when we take it to the wind power plants as well, the procedure was being accelerated, someone rushed to get these companies to file it and then damage it. So here I'm talking about damage, and you also mentioned damage. What is important to all of us is that we help through HBOR our key economic sectors, especially those who are in trouble. Today they are in trouble, we all know that we have a shipbuilding that is essential to the very kind of legal guarantee, and also now our agricultural sector is facing strong problems so that with competition on the European market on the other hand we have sanctions imposed on the Russian market. It's all making it harder to work. So loans in the agricultural sector, and for this very reason, in many countries, are the work of state-owned banks that are driven by subsidized interest. I would certainly also warn about the properties provided by these loans, because if entrepreneurs come into trouble then we have a real problem both in the sector and in the banking sector. Here is the information that 277 loans were granted through the operational programmes that went, most of them were relatively poor quality and even, it is said that 275 reprogrammes are anywhere some have been reprogrammed and multiple times. And a lot of them, when the grace period expired, were extended. It's just saying that it really has to be approached not only from one financial aspect, but also from that economical recognition of problems. Because I say then it was the politicians who, by coming to the EU door, encouraged our farmers if you go into investment, invest, modernise farms, increase production volume to remain competitive. And what happened? It came from the fact that our quality agricultural producers, who until then have served their obligations without a problem, suddenly fell into debt and everyone else has taken advantage of us remembering the purchase prices of milk, dairy production. All of this ended incompetent policy, so there was no clear strategy, no clear support or continued operational programme as such to support strategic policy within our economic policies. And then when we take our farmers to their farms, silos, houses they all end up on the drum. And that's why I'm saying, the attitude has to be clear. HBOR as a bank he must find models how to help all these not only agricultural but also other entrepreneurs primarily by looking for solutions with them, and not by going what we have in banks in division, in acquisitions, in real estate sales. That's exactly what I mean by the Development Bank. But despite it all, I would say that the role of HBOR is unquestionable and it's good that it started to work, it's good that it started working in one other direction and I encourage here to move even faster. But where's that speed? There's another way to get support from our side. You remember that this year, in the first session of the Supervisory Board, all the soups of seven people met. There were three missing right out of this house. After the great squabbles that started here, the proposals mean the Supervisory Board has never been filled. They've always missed those three members of the Parliament. These three members and they would make their contribution and they would pour their knowledge and experience right into the support and administration of the HBOR. But they weren't there. Therefore, we cannot keep talking about the responsibilities we have, which are owned by entrepreneurs, who have banks if we have not borne our share of responsibility and appointed these. Therefore, now is the time to finally be appointed and that the Bank knows which is the full composition of the Supervisory Board, and you remember that there was also a tender for selecting new members of the Board and it was not implemented because it was not the full composition of the Supervisory Board. It's just the decision on whether or not she's controversial, it's not a questionable one that I wouldn't get into, but the whole situation is controversial. If you call a competition, it means you automatically do not trust the administration that is in existence. I could accept that, too, anyone who wants to conduct a policy. But then you can't leave half a year or who knows how much that administration just doesn't have a replacement. And what's second, which comes from all these replacements, we remember in 2014 Mr. Kovacev left the office of the President of the Administration. After him comes Mr. Christian. He was less than nine months old. He's being called off. What's going on? They're making severances. If you look at yourself we're talking about amounts that are more than five million kunas, five million kunas that will be paid by taxpayers. And that is why I call on us to be responsible, to form the bodies of our key institutions that should support development, not to make it a policy or something that ultimately costs all of us together. I can also remind you here because I wrote down, that our former colleague, Ivan Shuker, also pointed out in 2014 that the shifts were made by a political decree, and this is ultimately all expensive, I say this situation repeats itself. I think it's time for the profession to take over now. What is crucial for us to know through HBOR, which is that they have their cooperation with both HAMAG and the Resolute Ministry because it is the key to future action where there is a clear link between strategic policy definitions and support for entrepreneurs. Because then the state bank, the development bank will be available to entrepreneurs in all parts of Croatia because the HBOR must draw closer to its clients not only by paying the funds but also by informing, education and providing advice. It must support exports, industry, tourism and all other sectors that make up the backbone of our economy. And in particular focus, what is already mentioned must be small and medium-sized enterprises, sectors in difficulties such as agriculture, such as shipbuilding. And also a key role in funding key, large and any other projects that have co-financing from the EU does not ultimately become a question and who will provide us with funding for our project invested in the documentation, which has been reported, at the end of which there is a need for whether in the economy, whether in infrastructure or anywhere else. And what we certainly need to help those who need it most, which are small businesses start ups, farmers, entrepreneurs who are currently in temporary difficulties, our young people who are driving entrepreneurship. We must also take greater risks for the financing of these companies, and that is why it is recommended to go both into decentralisation and strengthening regional functions. I'd like to conclude, I'd like to welcome the direction the bank's going in, and once again point the speed of that direction, I think it's crucial. I would point out greater professionalisation, less political influence, and I would point out that attention should be increased to the vulnerable economic sectors, and we certainly expect even better results from the Association of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3479	I thank Representative Panenic. The first representative to report for the replica is the representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3480	Your Honor. Coliga Panenić, here at the presentations of his colleagues Lalovac and his colleagues Bulj had something to do with it, means the monetary transmission mechanism in Croatia today is seriously threatened by the lack of care of private commercial banks towards entrepreneurship, primarily towards innovative, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is the key to faster development and employment. And it should be a key segment of funding by the HBOR. The success of the German economy and its strong industry is based on strong, regional development banks and their efficient and efficient transport to small innovative businesses. I think that we must accept a greater risk of financing such businesses because it ultimately results in greater contributions for the whole economy. So I think that the HBOR needs to be even more financially, organisationally strengthened because obviously from that debate we had about the CNB and this debate today and Mr. Lalovec means that commercial banking in Croatia has been increasingly speculative for many years now, and I see the role of HBOR there, and I would like to ask you to comment on it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3481	Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3482	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. I think every direction of development that is found not to be a shortage on the market is justified. So I would also say that it's justifiable to think about the bank, about expanding, taking over functions, what we expected from our business banks to be that service to entrepreneurs, to be their not only business partners, but to be friends who know them, who know their business, who know their integrity to know as people when they're in difficulty being co-workers who help them. Unfortunately, here is the practice of Croatian banking that there is no such congratulation that even in banking that would support the integrity of entrepreneurs who did not find themselves in problems, it was found because of the environment in which they are located, perhaps because of those who created this environment for him that it was inappropriate for him. How can we only react to that? We can go through the banks we have. What do we have in the government portfolio now? We have a Post office bank, we have a Croatian bank at the end of HBOR and I think that's the direction in which we need this gap you noticed on the market to compensate, we need our institutions to strengthen to help on the ground. And it can't happen that someone sees that the HBOR has a chance to get credit and then for months he's been wearing papers from some part of Croatia to come from Metkovic or from Vukovar to Zagreb. I think it's crucial in all of this that you work to increase the organization to their decentralisation towards other parts and that people have real points where they come in and solve their problems. And, unfortunately, when they come out of a business bank, they're disappointed that we as a state can support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3483	I thank Representative Panenic. The next representative to report for the replica is a representative of Strenja-Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3484	So I would once again explain this story in fact the way in which the work of the HBOR should be improved, which is that it should maximumly decentralise the process itself of approving these loans and strengthen regional units in all these processes from the phase of negotiation, client assessment and decision-making. So they must be much more informed that what happened with Luke in Pula when they practically nine months contracted, only nine months after they got the green light. And that's why the crane for Luka Pula was so late, they had to pay for the pens and couldn't do a favor for their clients. It means maximum decentralisation and a regional organisation that will improve the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3485	I thank the representatives of Strenji-Linić. Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3486	Comrade Ines, we certainly see problems as being created in institutions that are our own and we are well aware of them. And it's good that people point out to them that we can also point out to you here when you report that you accept that because you're a state there is also not only a responsibility to help the economy or our infrastructure but there is political responsibility because in the end politics appoints you there. You work and then these failures hit us, and I believe you and we're all looking for that answer to be given. This Pula case also there exist directors who wanted best done for his firm, he wanted records... Pula yes. But I'm also saying there's a farm out there that unfortunately has so much work to do, and he doesn't get to do it all alone. He needs a man who will come to him, who will see him, who will know what he has, so that's what our entrepreneurs expect. Come to us a little bit, let's not keep walking towards you, but you get down to our level a little bit, and then you'd get rid of it faster, you'd know the problems they're facing, and when someone calls you and you know it not only by name and last name, its financial data, but you know it, and then, personally, the documentation is solved much more fluidly, and eventually the solution is faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3487	I thank Representative Panenic. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3488	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Panenic, you were the vice president of the HBOR Supervisory Board, and at the moment I listened to you there, I thought one Panenic spoke at the beginning, and the other Panenic at the end. For what? You first welcomed the direction and commended the work of the HBOR, and then within minutes later you said that as deputy chairman of the Supervisory Board you wanted to resolve and call a new competition and asked for new people by the way you didn't find, so you also questioned why this was happening and you were the deputy chairman of the Supervisory Board. So we'd ask you why it happened because you were the deputy chairman of the board of directors responsible for it. Why did you call the competition and not name anyone? Is it possible that this division of HDZ, MOST, is one function to me and you four to HDZ, so you failed to agree. Tell us why this happened. You were the vice president of the Supervisory Board. Then, at one point, you claimed that in 2014, it was a political shift in the HDZ personnel of Kovacev. And at the beginning of your debate, you mentioned four huge affairs that some of them I and I would say filed a criminal complaint over some of those things that the gentleman had just spent. So you say political shift and on the other hand you say it wasn't, too bad there wasn't a MOST in 2005 when Kovac approved all of these loans that you just mentioned and the one that mentioned fellow Pernar. It was not a loan from the SDP authorities but in 2011, HDZ authorities and former HBOR administration, the one around the EPH. So don't say on the one hand that it was a political shift and on the other hand you're complaining that all these loans were granted what someone didn't stop them. You're a little doubled.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3489	Agent Maras, thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3490	Comrade Maras here I will say, I said unfortunately at that time, very late, here's what happened to MOST being organized, that people find themselves who really probably came to us here all of these listening, all of these affairs and that we change something. But at least we're honest, we're honest about calling anything that's wrong. We make mistakes, too. And also when we say maybe there's been some mistake and we're able to bring it out, we won't be able to safely pass it on to anyone else, the other one is guilty if we're to blame ourselves. So let's accept that, too. So your government was making mistakes, you should also show them and say we won't do it anymore, she was doing the HDZ government's mistakes some. What I find remarkable is that these same mistakes are repeated, the same models, and that eventually it takes 10 years for someone to say the same thing. And now, what we're going to do with these 400 million, which we should say is not valid 2Pi dots," it's somebody's fault there, we'll be better after that. No, you should, you should look. Unfortunately what [[Mr Maras, I ask you to refrain.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you, Mr. President. ... [[/Intruder President: I ask you to refrain, you do not have the right to replicate the replica. Here you go.]] It is crucial in all of this to determine which direction such errors will be made not to occur. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to me, it's absolutely when we talk about audits whether it's going to be in the CNB, whether it's going to be in the HBOR, any institution, is not whether it's going to happen but what it's going to find there, what it's going to compare with some other similar institutions and warn this particular home that we can later when we make a decision, eventually we're going to pass on to our voters who was then, who's the mistake... And not that we have to change the law in the end so that someone isn't re-nominated on the electoral lists, so that they can run here, and what's she doing? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then we pick him, he becomes the minister, and there he was doing affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3491	I thank Representative Panenic. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3492	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Panenić, you certainly mentioned what we all want HBOR to be the key to helping all our economic operators, especially those who are in trouble as you have said agriculture, also, shipbuilding, in the economy and the like. However, from sources, you said the CNB shows a number of facts that, after their internal analysis, a number of irregularities and illegalities in older placements are confirmed in the approval of loans. And it's an interesting fact that the decision to grant loans as you say was made in record time and without all the necessary documentation like that. The model was extremely successful. And one of the examples is in one of the affairs, which is that it reminds me of a wind power plant affair. Also, HBOR read this in the media was very accessible to numerous loans from highly-positioned Croatian government officials, so to their brothers, brothers or girls, it gave high millions of amounts, meaning non-transparency in certain credit allocations without sufficient documentation and, of course, obviously and politically favoured loans to HBOR. That's what you said in one section and they're mostly interesting wind power plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3493	Thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3494	Thank you, colleague Bulj, just for mentioning, so with these very wind power plants we give them a preferential price for the energy produced. Our society, our consumers all of us will pay for it and in our accounts will be shown, can't just run away from it. My colleague Maras said you didn't stop. How to prevent something that was agreed before. It's impossible, so it's impossible to prevent. Now from this position we can comment. But what we can prevent, we can certainly prevent such projects from eventually coming to the HBOR, that the HBOR, is morally to make such a project, and we will also give a privileged interest rate to make such a project real. So not that we're going to pay through the price of energy but we're going to still be participating at the interest rate then we're going to say we're the right company to support, whether we're domestic, whether we're foreigners and one who can't see how he hurt this society. I don't think he should have any support.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3495	I thank Representative Panenic. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3496	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenic, it somehow seems to me that we do not always have to put expertise and politics as concepts that are necessarily opposed or to say in politics there are no professional people or vice versa. But I agree with you that expertise should be put ahead of politics especially with regard to the political influence that politics can then create especially here in this work when we talk about HBOR loans. And of course the principle of transparency and respect for internal procedures must be first. However, what we must not interfere with is the principle of responsibility. All of what you're saying, in which we agree under normal circumstances, is valid. However, we must not forget that we had a string of let's say the abnormal circumstances. We had still there in 2011 a very large internal debt, we had a large tax debt, we had a high level of liquidity, workers worked and did not receive salaries, they were in danger of jobs, there was also a pre-departure settlement as one of the job-saving models. Here in the assembly, people rightly called it another big robbery. However, some jobs have managed to save themselves. As the HBOR report says here, you see now a lot more funds go into investment, and the less they go into crafts, which was necessary in previous years. Why am I saying all this? Because we will never be able to rule out political responsibility. Professionals cannot make decisions that have a political connotation, in fact, and ultimately have a responsibility. Here's an example, the state-owned company is the biggest believer, its believer is a bank that's also owned by the state. In the pre-fashion deal, you ask the bank if you will give up your claims that this company will live, so that workers will continue to work so that everything will be okay. To this one person who I believe is also very professional says let Andrija Jarak come to your house and give you a report. You understand? It is always political responsibility that we will have to have and professional people will never accept such a level of responsibility. I don't know if you understood what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3497	I thank Representative Sagar. Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3498	My colleague, Žagar, you absolutely have my support in these thoughts, which is why I have said one level of expertise that someone knows the procedures that need to be carried out that the documentation being handled by all the rules that are laid down and that, in the end, we propose to those who are eventually appointed to us in the supervisory committees, who are also ministers in the HBOR Supervisory Board where the competition is being held, where people are filling in some government's mandate that we can also bear that responsibility more easily so that we don't have to be ashamed here or that we don't have to look at the inscriptions in the newspaper where politicians are calling us for something that should be a professional part. Of course, the political responsibility is to direct the country in which we want to go, but there can be no political orientation to talk about the crisis all the time. I mean, when we started in 2008, 2009 talking about the crisis, today is 2016. If I hear that crisis again today, then we've made a mistake somewhere. We've been talking for seven years about the crisis and we can't say any more as we talked about the damage of the Homeland War let it be irreparable. Unfortunately, it's damaged, and here's my area of damage, but we see now there's no political support, the time is over, we can't go back to it. If that's what we're going through, how do we keep calling for the financial crisis that's hit the world? The world has come out of crisis, we're still in crisis, and in the end, we need to look for models to direct ourselves in the right direction. That's why I said I welcome the direction of the bank, but I want a much faster pace that ultimately brings results, not that we're always going back to how difficult it is for us. Of course it's hard, but it's much easier for us to sit here in the assembly and talk than for those who need to fight for the bread of their family and their workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3499	I thank Representative Panenic. And the representative who also reported for the replica is MP Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3500	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In your debate, you stated that there were plenty of discounts that were not charged and that, in part, because of certain political decisions that were not to be made, but which should not have been pressured by policies on the placement of these funds. I and we at the HSS are interested in why 72 projects went bankrupt, why 73 is in pre-demand settlement and which is why it has not responded before and kept that capital that HBOR placed in these projects. I think politics should have been very involved and prevented from such activities. And what is very important to us, too, is that we should also praise that the placement of funds through the HBOR as entrepreneurs has increased directly compared to the part that goes through commercial banks. This is to be welcomed because we know that our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, especially from the agriculture sector, especially from Slavonia and Baranja, find it very difficult to find space with commercial banks to achieve a credit programme for their project. And certainly the HBOR must have a small and political presence for these undeveloped areas, especially craftsmen, entrepreneurs from the agricultural sphere must have a wide open door because they directly in commercial banks cannot reach business credits. And we see that the commercial banks in the HBOR report, most of the placements are going towards citizenship and that the decline in credit rating towards crafts and entrepreneurship. And that's why HBOR needs to be guarded and strengthened. And you mentioned that somewhere around 270 projects from agriculture in operational programmes have experienced their own fiasco and that is why they are guilty of political decisions and that is how you called the users of these loans from the operational programmes. I also argue that we at HSS argue that most of the family farms that have entered these programmes honestly and willingly have gone into this without having responded to the Government and the state, because the price of milk has fallen from 4 to 2 or 1.5 kuna and that you certainly do not need to invoke them, but those who did not make them save them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3501	Thank you. Representative Panenic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3502	Here's a thank you, colleague Vlaovic. I'd say just one correction, you said you need a policy now to say something, I think then the policy was reacting and that's why it was created exactly these great large ones and there you may have misunderstood my exposure. I did not call out, of course, small agricultural producers, OPGs, farmers who wanted to improve their business, but I just called the policy that represented the position go into investment, you have to become more competitive, you have to improve your economy, we will stand behind you, we will give favourable loans, favourable interest on loans, you will get delays on loans. What did people expect? They expected a stable environment in which, after the investment, the payment plan that they projected the conditions under which they were running and that they would remain. And the price of milk back then was you know it's about 5 kuna, today it's about 2 and something's spinning. Did this policy once mention to them that it could come to this, did politics once mention that the Swiss franc could so go his course in heaven that it would be impossible. And what is, we have a constant category where politics always interferes and says go that way. But then when there was a problem, they'd get away. And then comes the new council, the new people, and you and me and here, and the other colleagues that you hit all together and you politicians say there. This politician did not make such a decision. Now, I'm not going to speak individually, but I'm telling everyone here, of course, that we want to give these farmers, these farmers, to try to stabilize, not to be the farm that's in their backyard. How are you going to confiscate their farm? You moved them, you moved them to Slavonia, you sent them to some Germany, Ireland, no production, we import milk, we move. So the direction is easier, let's help them while we still can, not when they fail what we do with the farm that's in Some yard in a small village. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3503	I thank Representative Panenic. The next club of representatives who reported for participation in the debate is the club Change Croatia, SNAGA and on their behalf, representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3504	Dear Vice-President, respected representatives of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, MPs and MPs. Here at the beginning I have to express really one disappointment with the number of present representatives in the Croatian Parliament and I think it would be best to interrupt the session and split up at home, so when there is at least one 50% to work here. This is devastating, this is clearly saying to those okay. if they couldn't come, and those who could come that they weren't there, that they had an irresponsible understanding of their function. And it's really no wonder we feel the way it is. I will speak today on behalf of the Representatives' Club "Let's Change Croatia" and "SNAGA" about the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And I will immediately wonder why the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was founded? And secondly, do we need a bank like this? Do we need a HBOR like this? I'll remind you he was founded in 1992, so at wartime to specialize in financing reconstruction and development. Over time, however, the bank has become a political, or transfer bank dominant on one hand. And there they were changing, and I'm sorry there's no representative of the SDP here, and certainly not those of the HDZ who are, who know more about it than I can see. Because these 23, 24 years are obviously a lot of things, and history is long, and you might ask them a lot of questions. And I'm even surprised by the MOST today because my colleague Panenic was, however, a short time ago, and also the deputy chairman of the Supervisory Board, I see he knows some information. I would be in his place, and he had several months to seek direct action in the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Now I'm gonna back up what I'm saying. Generally, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development's administrations for the past 24 years have met the dominant desires, political desires of the government teams or other structures that were at the time. Please sit in the HBOR Supervisory Board 9 people, 6 ministers and 3 representatives of the Parliament and another representative of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. That's 10 now, it was 9, then it wasn't enough to say give another minister, he says. Therefore, you have the feeling that even the largest bank in Croatia does not have so many members of the Supervisory Board, perhaps a multinational company. All of this is paid, so that's how the cost increases. But obviously it suits someone. The next question is why does HBOR rarely visit the State Audit? It's a state institution. Okay. there is a private audit, but why should they spend money when there is a State Audit, so it is a paradox that the State Audit does not investigate or oversee the spending of public money because it is financed from the state budget in a good part of the HBOR. Now let's see how HBOR does it? You see HBOR is operating, here is the last representative of the SDP leaving the hall I'm just saying, I have no intention of pollemizing. [[You can't talk like that.]] So, happy trip. What was going on here? In this context, see how HBOR works? 53% of the credit goes through business banks, 47% of the credit goes by themselves. So wait, please! Five first years since '92, four, five years so until he's been stalking, the institution isn't developed, he needs the help of a business bank, we understand, he can. But since '97. So to this day, there's no need. If HBOR is a development bank to do business alone, let him approve those loans. These are these incestuous links established between the State Development Bank, which has become a political bank and business banks. And since I'm a university professor, I'm not just throwing you statements, now I'm going to back that up. Where does he raise money for financing the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development? The dominant foreign borrowing and the debt is about 14 billion kuna. But on the other hand, let me tell you right now how much this borrowing costs. On average, about 5 and a half percent, I repeat about 5 and a half percent. The second source of HBOR funding is the state budget, and we are taxpayers. So the question now is, how does this way of financing work through business banks? In the last year HBOR was funded, forwarding let's say cash to banks with an average of 1.3%, listen to me well, 1.3%, and owed up to 5.5% ok, so it cheaply provided the bank filled a good share of its liabilities below the business bank approves loans. Of course, some three, some four, some 5%, and of that profit, of course, both the HBOR and the business bank share. The risk is divided half-half-half-half. Is the interest of banks when money comes to them, and that was last year $12.5 billion, I repeat $12.5 billion, came to the business banks, is the interest of banks to encourage exactly what we want and what the government wants to do about economic policy and what the HBOR should do? So we have things like this just before, and fellow Panenic said, colleague Pernar and probably something else we don't know. So based on this data I've given the arguments, it shows that this kind of policy is unsustainable and harmful. The next argument, at the time of the economic crisis, the recessions from 2008 to 2014 were granted around €8.5 billion in loans, 2015 even more, but listen to what banks were doing then, business banks were implementing a debt policy. So their committees have been disbursed, and so they themselves, and therefore it is due to this period of about eight billion kuna, and it turns out that in that period the economy is lending to HBOR and that they were positive. Please, there's a lot of reading out of this. In addition, what is even more important to say here, just before the president of the administration said that they had opened up a part of business policy towards leasing societies. And I'm asking you, what's this for? Prior to that, a link was opened with the so-called "cooperation". Economic Co-operation Funds, what does that also serve you? It is about risky things, problematic things, and this topic should also be opened in the Assembly. I don't have enough time to explicate and explain this relationship with leasing societies, but that's where HBOR went into a risky position, and you certainly know why. What is good in 2015 was approved about 2.285 loans worth 7.8 billion kuna at the most so far at the annual level, is a good trend to go 80% in investments, 20% in crafts, and in 2010, it was completely different, it was dissipating. So, there is another interesting thing, in 2015 HBOR decided to increase the fixed margin for business banks by one percentage point for the tasks they carry on their burden. I'd like to work so well, too. In this context, some more important questions are raised, why last year, HBOR invested 2 billion kunas in the government's vault records, government bonds, and another third item I don't remember, 2.4 billion. So wait, please, the state is giving money out of the budget to refinance the state or you're borrowing yourself expensively outside to fund the state. HBOR's business is not that, but rather small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and a more dynamic development of the economy and their promotion. In this context, the HBOR's commitments in 2015 amounted to 15.8 billion kuna, which, according to the abroad, amounted to 14.8 billion kuna. From this we read that practically HBOR creates most of the resources needed for work by borrowing abroad. I personally thought it was cheap loans and low yields... bonds, and that's where I was wrong because the average is about 5.5%. This increases the country's external debt, practically puts it at currency risk, but the euro is now stable, however it will not last forever. In this context, it's unsustainable this way of financing. I'm asking the question here, why is there no possibility for you Croatian citizens who are watching us now, why is it that the HBOR corporate bond has not been issued so that citizens can pay it, register it, and especially now that the bank's contribution is below 1% and that you gave 1.5% of the people would buy it and not be in debt abroad? There are a lot of things that you could point out here, and that's why it's important to approach this problem in a different way. For comparison, the German loan... /The speaker speaks German./... means it is a version of the German HBOR 90% is funded by bond emissions, of course now very cheaply special in Germany. So this is what I'm saying to show you where HBOR should go and what needs to be changed there. In that context, I'm going to say a few more things, and more crucially, as recommendations. That is why we in the party Change Croatia think that we should not only discuss it in the Parliament because citizens and the professional public are not so eager, they want concrete changes, and we in the party change Croatia we want to change and we will eventually do it both decisively and firmly. What do you need to do? The HBOR should finally become the first development bank with a professional administration, with the elimination of a political factor, with the introduction of independent experts into supervisory committees, the reduction of the supervisory board and the reduction of political influence, and drastically. There's too much of that now in the previous period. Second, by law to define the jurisdiction of the State Office for Auditing the operation of HBOR each year. Third, define the criteria for the granting of a loan to boost exports and publicly publish sectors, businesses, amounts, therefore loans granted by the HBOR. Fourthly, report to the Croatian Parliament on HBOR's business, not only on such large reports which can be useful but also on all aspects, especially those who are critical because of the budget therefore public money. What we are particularly interested in in the party Change Croatia is to immediately publish a list of credits, users and amounts, and especially those that are granted to persons who are politically connected with certain interest structures of parties or those who were members of management or supervisory boards. This should be done and with it you should come among other things into this House. Furthermore, we are expecting and looking, we are looking through this House, Mr. President, to announce, shortly before someone mentioned, Mr. Panenic why 2 billion and 100 million kuna were not charged. Who hasn't been charged? There's something here, some companies are listed. Does this mean that the thing is almost the same as socialism, that these 2 billion will evaporate over the years and eat the donkey wolf and no one will be responsible? It's a responsibility to this country. We need a different practice, we need a different HBOR. And therefore we can expect its stronger influence and its more important role in the development of the Croatian economy. The way HBOR works today, today's, is no longer acceptable. We need to redesign, reposition HBOR, so it needs to finally become independent, it needs to be eliminated, it has its own way, it has its own way, it's a state bank, it needs to be defined whether the bank, whether the fund, to whom it will correspond, etc. We want HBOR which will not be a problem and burden and it must change, we need HBOR but HBOR significantly different. That'll be all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3505	Thank you, too, we have a replica of the distinguished colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3506	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your colleague Lovrinović mentioned HBOR's placements towards the economy. It should be pointed out that part of these placements went into partnership with local and regional self-government units through co-financing of credits for craftsmen and entrepreneurs, as well as for agriculture by regional self-government and county, which some advocate to abolish. And we see that there's an important role and a county because they co-financed 2% interest on production interests, activities, 1% for non-productive ones, and thus opened a number of jobs in that regional self-government that entered such programs. Here in 2015 in Brod-Posavina County somewhere around 25 million kuna is placed towards such small and medium-sized entrepreneurs where part of the jobs and 70 new jobs are preserved. So I ask you if, through a new tax reform, it will announce an increase in the untaxable rate of income to 3800 kuna, and we know that income from income tax is the highest income of regional self-government, and that this will endanger future payments and make it impossible for the counties to co-finance business loans and thus help the economy in their regions, especially in Slavonian counties that have no other way to raise the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3507	You want a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3508	Dear Representative Vlaovic, your question relates more to this tax reform that is spoken of, very simply. If the income of local administrations and self-government is reduced, it is very clear, then they will be less able to co-finance these loans, i.e. to participate, participate in all this. But I'd look more around here when you're talking about local environments, smaller communities. And that should be the area where HBOR especially works. There shouldn't be too much concentration, big credits, too much. We see the diversification there, that it's not satisfactory. Well, in that context, I think this is a very important issue that needs to be settled. Otherwise, our discussions on financial reports, the business of any state institution, and gentlemen have no meaning in this assembly. We hear it, it will eventually vote. That's why I didn't come to this Parliament. And believe me, if that kind of practice keeps on asking me if I'm coming, maybe I'll join these guys that aren't coming because I think it's missed, you know. Let's put a topic on how to create a new one, how to reposition the HBOR here in the Assembly, previously in the sections, in the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and then we'll make sense, then we'll give our pain like the MPs here. There are those of us who know something about it and even more of those outside who are experts as well as other areas when they come to the agenda. If we do as we've done so far, the dogs will bark, the caravans will pass, for these great losses, the unpaid claims won't be answered and I don't want to work that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3509	We don't have any more replicas. We're continuing the club debate. The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club and distinguished counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3510	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, representatives of the HBOR administration, colleagues and colleagues. The annual HBOR financial report and the development for 2015 is transparent, giving a full picture of the financial operations of this bank for 2015 from the introduction of new lending programmes to the change of existing programmes aimed at facilitating the business of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are intended to encourage and absorb European funds, etc. The report shall be prepared in accordance with international standards of financial reporting and accounting law and audited in accordance with international audit standards. We see that the bank has made total revenues of about 917 million kuna, expenditure of 711 million kuna and profits of over 205 million kuna. This is already the result of the lower expenditure achieved than the interest, which had the greatest impact on the early repayment of certain debts in 2013 and 2014 and the use of credit lines, special financial institutions at a special interest rate. We can see that the EIB provided a loan of only 0.5%. In order to help Croatian economies recover business and start a new investment cycle, this bank also implemented a reduction rate in interest rates during 2015 and gave up the share of interest revenue. In accordance with the law, the total profit achieved in 2015 was allocated to reserves. HBOR was founded in 1992 by the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction. The priority areas of action were the promotion of the foundation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the promotion of exports, the development of tourism, the financing of innovation and the development of new technologies, the financing of agriculture development, the promotion of the use of European funds and the financing of environmental protection projects and energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. During 2015, HBOR has done business with the aim of just encouraging entrepreneurs to new investments or to launch a new investment cycle, maintaining and improving the liquidity of Croatian businessmen. Thus, lending, insurance of export claims, issuing a guarantee is supported by 2589 projects totalling 12.4 billion kuna. In the same year, 2285 loans totalled up to 7.8 billion of which were granted as much as 7.3 billion kuna for newly opened loans, newly approved loans. Of the total appropriations, it is indeed happy that as much as 82% is for investment investments while only 18 is for crafts. HBOR credits shall be granted directly or through business banks. The happy fact that during that year, the number of newly employed HBOR-supported projects stood at 3.3 000. The funds support projects from the tourism sector, the production of food products and drinks, agriculture and fisheries, the Mediterranean industry, chemical products and so on. However, the criticisms we just heard from colleagues of Lovrinovic stand. When criticising the need for funds through business banks in the first place. And that's exactly what's new about this framework loan arrangement with banks is new in 2015 and this collaboration with Leasing houses. In 2015, 9 contracts with business banks were concluded and co-operation was established with 4 lease houses. Moreover, the margins were increased to banks from one to two percentage points for loans granted to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and this was entirely at the expense of this bank as the end-user, so that the end-user would not be burdened by that increase. The implementation of the risk sharing model has also continued, with HBOR and the business bank sharing the risk of the repayment of credit funds. So for large investments over 9 million kuna, the Croatian bank takes 50% of the risk and the bank takes the remaining 50 out of the total amount. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were granted this year in 2015. 3.2 billion kuna. New distribution channels framework loans with special banks and cooperation with Leasing companies and the introduction of a new micro-credit programme with the support of European funds resulted in increased demand for these funds, primarily small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. In order to help the Croatian economy and economic operators recover from the economic crisis, the HBOR has, through several measures, reduced interest rates and thus gave up its share of income in favour of economic development. The interest rates for lending new investments in agriculture, fisheries, tourism, industry and energy efficiency projects and environmental protection have been reduced. In accordance with this measure, the interest rate is 2, 3 or 5% per year depending on the performance of the business of entrepreneurs, on size, on the area of investment and the like. The repayment deadlines for such investments shall be up to 17 years with the possibility of granting a start-up period of 2 to 5 years. According to the programme of crediting the preparation and collection of export transactions for beginners, the interest rate was also reduced by 2 percentage points so that the current rate per programme was 2, 4 or 6% and this rate of 6% was abolished at all. The newspapers are also crediting loans aimed at encouraging and absorbing EU funds so that we have only 3% interest here. This programme allowed credit to be re-located through business banks. And this very means of return could be expected as its own participation and a return can be expected from European funds. According to the project lending programme co-financed by European funds, 700 million kuna has been granted, and 128 projects have been co-financed. It is mainly about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and encouraging the use of available EU funds. It is one of the priorities and should be one of the priorities of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The paper is also the financing of the costs of project and other investment documentation, so entrepreneurs can finance the development of ideas solutions, outcomes of local, construction permits, environmental impact studies, cost-effectives and the like. The role of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development as export banks and Export Insurance Agency is also important through the lending programme to issue guarantees and insurance of export claims from Croatian exporters, and projects for as many as 50 countries of the world are supported through export insurance services. Thus, a large project such as the construction of the largest ship with circular sails in the world for the buyer in Monaco, construction of the Albania-Kosovo power line, etc. The paper is also an insurance for the collection of foreign claims for small exporters and exporters to begin operations on the foreign market. As an additional measure, HBOR adopted a new programme to ensure the collection of export claims intended for those who have traffic of up to 2m euros and to postpone payments of 180 days independently of which countries these customers are from. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were granted loans of €3.2 billion under all programmes, which is 94% of the total number of loans granted to small and medium-sized enterprises. They were on 26 credit programs. Newspapers in 2015 that are very happy for all of us who are at the head of cities and municipalities are measures for units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons owned by them, so that in 2015, 2.1 billion kuna of loans for projects related to the improvement of infrastructure and environmental protection are granted, so that different projects are financed from the construction of kindergartens, the restoration of schools to the construction of a water and sewage network. In accordance with the government's decision as a national development bank, key jobs related to the implementation of the Investment Plan for Europe in the area of the Republic of Croatia are also entrusted and special attention should be paid to creating new financial products in line with the needs of the economy. Participation in the financing of infrastructure projects, projects of small and medium-sized enterprises, the establishment of bilateral cooperation with other national development banks in the implementation of this plan. We are pleased that in the first half of 2016 we have approved 2 and a half times more, a larger amount for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It approved 1452 loans, which is 84% more than it was in the first half of 2015. However, although these financial indicators are good, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development must work much more efficiently, much better, because the Croatian economy needs their work. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development should further encourage new investments, allow for the largest and more quality withdrawal of funds especially from EU funds, should enable and improve the liquidity of entrepreneurs in order to preserve and create as many new jobs as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3511	Thank you, too. We don't have a replica, so we move on to the debates again at the clubs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, HSU, dear colleague of the Goddess Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3512	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected representatives of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here I am sure that there is no one among us, and we heard it from today's debates, who doesn't think that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is a really important institution and belongs to one of the most important institutions in the Republic of Croatia. It has huge resources, and this is also a great potential for the development of a complete Croatian economy. If we take basic tasks, this includes lending to the economy, insurance of non-marketable risks, issuing guarantees for business consultation. However, crediting the economy is the most important function of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development regardless of what purpose it was founded in '92. and what development cycles have passed. So far, the bank has performed its function well, each year it has submitted reports to this Croatian Parliament, which were quality reports. In addition to the figures, we could see other data, as well as measures that also appear to be efforts to improve economic policy and the overall situation in the economy. It adapted to situations and needs, thus finding new credit models. We had those models A, A+, B, C and so on. We also had targeted groups that approved more favourable loans, so we had more favourable loans for beginner entrepreneurs, for women, for exporters, for young people. So there were various attempts that were to help as much as possible, and they followed exactly the policies that were being made at the state level. It is indeed the job of the HBOR to monitor the economy, to adapt to the needs of the economy and to allow them as cheap and favourable loans as possible. Regardless of this reduction in interest rates that we had from one percentage point, they are still too high interest rates for Croatian businessmen. We know under what conditions businesses operate in the environment. There is an interest rate of about 1%, up to 2%, especially if we take production, and if we look at what are large cycles, or what is the coefficient in the production activity. And I met myself in my conversations with the problems that our masters find themselves in. If we take this kind of woodworking industry that takes up a significant space in our economy and when we see their coefficient, then we really see how much they're forced to tie up the funds for a long time. In particular, it is a situation for those who have from the hull to the final production. I will not talk about the problems they face in the purchase of raw materials and Croatian forests, this time because it is a separate problem and I believe that we will also discuss it in this Croatian Assembly once. So a year goes by when they have to pay for raw materials and until they put their product on the market, whether domestic or foreign. And now if we take that farmer or that producer from an environment that has 1% interest and which the bank monitors and doesn't need to attach its own resources and our economics, then we really see what kind of effort, wisdom, knowledge and will these businessmen have to make to survive in that market at all. There is, of course, agriculture where the same long cycle of production is. Each branch has its specific features, so we need to see and make decisions in this direction, i.e. that the guidelines on which the HBOR will operate or finance individual branches. Of course, in HBOR interest must be lower than it is in business banks because the aim of HBOR is not profit and is not like business banks maximising profits. So long as our businessmen won't be able to get a loan in HBOR under more favourable conditions while there will be paperwork and all the more rigorous than in business banks, while only the time of approval will be so long that they simply won't be able to wait for it they are forced to turn to business banks and take we can call it interest rates, but for that at a certain point the only solution for them is to keep production, keep the workers still doing business. And business banks are certainly not what they show in their commercials and their propaganda messages that they are socially sensitive, how much they help the social community and everyone else, they have a private owner who primarily aims at profit. And when they can't place their resources under those conditions, they'll still do it. Only at the moment when we have a bank that will monitor our businessmen and when they have the option of choice will the business banks begin to think about the ability to operate differently, or the placement of these funds under more favourable conditions. They can afford even those risks as much as they have not been charged because with these interests as they come from our businessmen and from our citizens normally, but here we are talking first of all about the economics because it's about the HBOR that only lends to the businessmen. Otherwise, when we had a time of crisis and there was a time of stagnation, they also fell into investment. Thus, in 2013, 20 % was paid than in 2012, the plasma growth started in 2014, and was continued in 2015 when significant growth was recorded, thus supporting 2.580 Croatian economy projects. Here's the number we've heard several times, but it probably sounds so good that we repeat it every time, or it's $12.4 billion more, which is 124% more compared to 2014. In 2015, there was a significant increase in activity, with 2,285 loans totalling 7.8 billion kuna of which 7 whole billion relate to newly approved loans, which is twice as much as in 2014. Here's the information we've repeated several times, but we'll remember it because it sounds nice. 2015 was the best year in investment loans since 2012, so in 2012, we had 5.396 billion, and in 2015. 6,390 billion kuna or 18% increase in investment loans, so the economy is still in motion. It's nice to see the data in this table that we got where we see the ratio of craft and investment loans, so in 2010, we had 79% and 21% in the investment, while in 2015. 82% of total placements had in investments, and less than 12% in crafts. So the economy is still moving, but everything I cited in the previous debate should be taken into account. HBOR credits shall be granted directly or through business banks. In 2015, the share of direct appropriations was increased to 57%. Is that enough, I think it's a good direction because we have this ratio now more favourable in favour of the HBOR than it was before. Earlier, most of these placements went through business banks. And I've already listed one of the reasons because there weren't so many rigorous terms of sale and there was a faster approval. In particular, it was present if you were followed by a business bank and you already had a mortgage in that part that you weren't supposed to give again, if you allowed that amount, the loan was approved and really fast, a few times faster than it would have been if it had gone directly through HBOR. The joyous fact that my colleague referred to before me was reported that 3300 were newly employed through these projects or that it was a real study that found that these investment placements led to that. Where the funds are placed, here we have read ourselves that the tourism, production, food products, agriculture, wood growers are supported, which bothers me especially again because I know that it is not to this extent and that there is more to be done and that it can be done because they are really potential, the complete economy of the Republic of Croatia. We have some more information about the change in assets, they actually come from the business, i.e. the repayment of the loan, so the total assets is 25,5400 thousand, 8 million kuna, which is a reduction of 1% and is the biggest result of the retention of gross and net loans at the level of last year. In order not to hold back on saying two more, three things that are really important to us and which we consider important, which is that the HBOR still needs to continue financing the economy, primarily exports and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. That interest ranging from 2% to 4% is lower than it is in business banks but we need to agree on development policies that we will follow and where they will be even lower. When we agree on these development policies, then we will remove immediately and suspect that there will be no non-transparency in approval because the HBOR will have guidelines and will follow our agreed development policy, confirmed by the Government and this Parliament. And finally, what to say from this part, which is most important to us. It's important to us all, but this part of the teamwork, expertise, HBOR staff is also important to me because I don't want it to happen to us like we did before in some measures when you want to report to the competition, so you're too big to meet the conditions of one measure but otherwise you don't meet organisational conditions because you're organized as a double accounting craft but you don't belong to you. So despite the huge investments some of our businessmen could not participate in these measures. And the HNS club, HSU will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3513	Thank you very much. We don't have a replica so we can move on. In the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall, distinguished colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3514	We'll survive, I won't give myself away so easily. I'd like to say, here, we have an HBOR on the agenda today. And what does HBOR carry us? HBOR is a bank that once behaves as a business bank, sometimes as a state investment bank, but however HBOR behaves, i.e. what role he played, we see HBOR giving loans to the political key. One of those loans that was given in such a way is the one that received the EPH Holding of Ninoslav Pavić, note, 11.5 million kuna, 11.5 million ladies and gentlemen and be careful, the insurance instrument was an EPH building in Odranska that was not enough to pay off the first mortgage of HYPO bank and the mortgage before that HBOR was already 6. So the person who credited the EPH Holding knew that the loan would not be returned. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't that a shocking fact? So there's six concesive mortgages on that building and there's no charge for the first one by selling that building. And on those 6 HBOR mortgages, it gives 7. And what were the consequences of the people who then ruled the HBOR? What consequences? Nothing. To no one, he ate the donkey wolf, as Ljubo Cesic Rojs would say, "The one who pitted it." And it wasn't yesterday, or it wasn't 20 years ago or 10 years ago, it was recently. Keep an eye on what practice is happening. You have a situation, my colleague Maras pointed out to her, as Fiolic, Sanader's butcher, received over 50 million kuna credits that were not returned as well. What was the means of securing that loan? It is logical that ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ that Fiolic did not receive the loan because we have a good business plan, but because he was connected to your organisation. You might say no, he's a great butcher, he had a good business plan, you're setting us up because we're the opposition to you, but I'm not telling the truth. And I'm calling you if you want to replicate after a speech on behalf of the club to replicate. And now what happens in cases where there are millions of frauds in which people are wet were directly close to the ruling regime in that case to the HDZ Fioliæ, or in the EPH case as far as I realized the credit was granted from the HDZ era and realised in the SDP era, so it seemed to me that. After coming to the power of the SDP, that credit day. Correct me if I'm wrong. Now what's this about? In these multimillion-dollar frauds, millions of frauds, no one bears responsibility, no one. However, you will say, i.e. to just explain what it means, try to imagine that I, Ivan Pernar, have my own apartment in the Pavlan road already, that I have a company owned by that apartment and that there are already 6 mortgages on that apartment and that the amount of debt already exceeds I don't know eight times or ten values of my apartment. Would the HBOR accept my apartment as a guarantee of a million kuna loan for me not to know the production of chemical, for example. I don't care. I don't care. I'm sure he wouldn't. They'd say that mortgage isn't enough for you. However, the mortgage was enough for Ninoslav Pavic. And now what's going on? These big fish that sucked billions of them nothing, and then we get into a situation with farmers who have actually had multiple less credits and who, unlike Fiolic and Ninoslav Pavić, have been raising loans, not with the intention of cheating on HBOR, but with the intention of returning these loans. So this is where the intention is important, these peasants were raising loans with the intention of returning them. They pawned their property, and now what's going on? From Fiolic and EPH today, Hanza Media will not charge one kuna, and these farmers have blocked accounts, completed, sold their house to their only home. What are these situations, ladies and gentlemen? We have a situation like this, we had in Dalmatia I forgot which city, Grgic I think the man was named, the bank sold him a home because of that HBOR loan. The man bought a fishing boat. And now what's going on, we have a system of enormous hypocrisy, a hypocrisy in which a banker from HBOR who granted a loan of $11.5 million to the EPH holding company won't be held accountable, and the policeman who took 200 kuna bribes you're going to throw him out on the street, or you're going to fire him because he took a bribe from 200 kuna. And no one's wondering if this cop is on loan by any chance, and if he could repay that loan he's got, or if he'd been deposed not to extort bribe from people? I mean, I'm in favour of the rule of law, I'm in favour of getting the loans back, but I demand that it start not from a traffic cop, but from the people who run HBOR. Why aren't these people in jail? God knows. My guess is they've got enough money and they've bought everyone they should've bought. And the cop who took the 200 kuna bribe he could buy? No one. And what's going on? There are honest cops, there are honest cops who didn't take bribes as a police officer from Rijeka who saw the murderer of the Filipovic sisters and talked about it publicly, and when he called the dispatcher at the police station, they hung up on his phone. Why? He claims because he saw a son of the river tycoon and a close friend of Sanader's, Mr Jezic. What's going on with that honest cop? Ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, that officer was fired. And not only did he get fired, but he also got a lawsuit from that son of a river tycoon Jezic where he asked for compensation because he talked about it publicly, and he also sued me for damages of 100 thousand kuna. Imagine what an absurd lady and gentlemen of the HDZ? So you have a situation where the law breaks on small fish, a cop who took 200 kuna bribes or an honest cop who gets fired and a litigation, and what if he loses and whoever runs the judiciary, the judiciary is run by the same people who hide the crime in HBOR, the same ones who gave Fioliæ credit, or who protected Fiolich when he was getting credit and the ones who gave him credit. So we in Croatia don't have a triple power of ladies and gentlemen. There is one party that controls all government institutions and the party named HDZ has even been convicted in court for withdrawing money directly from state-owned companies. And what's HDZ doing? It changes the law and then that verdict falls in the Constitutional Court even though it is undeniable to take money. You will say the Croatian judiciary, why are you speaking this whole thing? I'm talking because you have worse cases. You have cases where in the same case the court condemns and releases. So Cobankovic was convicted of giving bribes to your HDZ president, Ivy Sanader, formerly, and Sanader for the same case, the same court set him free to receive bribes. How can something be or not be in the same thing? So if I paid Miri Bulju lunch, hypothetically, even though I never did, how is it possible that that lunch was not paid by me by Miri Bulju? Not at all. So our judiciary is a coma, a horror movie. And why am I saying this? Because every day, I know a gentleman from HDZ will tell me this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And now I'm going to explain why I had to get off the subject? Because every day I'm called by people who complain about the corruption of institutions under your control and say Pernar help. Pernar in the DORH are corrupt, Pernar courts are biased. And what am I supposed to tell these people? They're looking for a meeting with me. Then I said, gentlemen and ladies, as long as HDZ is in power, there's no point or need for me to be there for you, because I know that justice won't change anything. And why is that? Because your party systematically protects and covers the crime that is happening in the HBOR and accordingly, of course you will vote in favour of accepting this report from the HBOR, of course. Well, your people gave those credits that they didn't pay back. However, unlike the influential and wealthy HDZs and protectors of your regime, what will happen to the poor people who because of your monetary policy, because you have turned the CNB into a currency exchange office, because you have defined the money by the National Bank Act as a debt. What about these people who won't be able to repay the loan? These people will be thrown out on the street. And when am I going to ask your Prime Minister Plenkovic here tomorrow why he's throwing these people out on the street? You know what answer he'll give me? Eh says Mr. Pernar, says we live in the rule of law, laws must be respected. Ladies and gentlemen, on whom do you show that the laws work? If there was a rule of law in Croatia, if there were in Croatia an institution of the rule of law, these people would not be deposed today, and those who robbed the HBOR as they rob all other state institutions would have been in prison long ago. And for that reason, of course, I will not support this report because I know that in a similar way as you led HBOR unfortunately led SDP, unfortunately. And that's the biggest tragedy in the whole story. And then you have to cover each other. I'm told by Mr. Maras, I filed criminal charges against that man in HBOR who gave Fiolic a loan but the DORH did not react. Why wasn't the DORH supposed to react? And he says to me, Maras, I was the Minister of Economy. Because DORH covers both HDZ and SDP. You cover each other, and on the smallest and the weakest people when you live legally on them, then you say there's a rule of law and the law has to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3515	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished colleague of Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The breach of Rules of Procedure 232. where the speaker says he can speak exclusively of the subject under the established agenda. Mr. Pernar has been preparing quality over 7 models all morning and where he listens to the voice of the people from Trump to Russia and uses the pay phone this way. So, for 15 minutes, I'm going to have to say this and every time I don't get to insult my fellow MPs who have no idea who they are, which is for most of us and where we come from and what we represent. And then use a pay phone like this in such a inviting way, as a cowboy hang himself by a pay phone and thus suggest to the citizens that cowboyry is allowed today, so you can also say what has nothing to do with an argumentable debate with accurate data. So, last time I replicated to you and told you that when you talk about one topic, that you speak responsibly and truthfully and here you do not prepare to talk like this every time using to attack as many HDZ as you said in "Open" because it is the only thing you like about it, then it is unfortunately for our Croatia not a step forward, but a step back. And speaking of moral ancestors, look at what you did in the Living Wall and that combination. Is that a voter scam or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3517	Thanks a lot, buddy. You didn't mention which article was injured? Yeah, then nothing. [[Intruder Šipić: I said, 232.]] But it's in Parliament to speak and nebuloses, so I'll let them speak and nebulise. Here's the deal. Let's move on. We have the first replica. It is a respected colleague Ivan Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3518	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Pernar, I listened to you in your presentations, and there is much truth. A lot, a lot of truth, unfortunately. Here you see this Parliament of 29 people, maybe now it's 30, our citizenship has to decide whether it was good or whether we're here to say what was wrong. But we see a lot of us are gone. Of 151 somewhere 30 people. Who are the HBOR loans granted to? Just before Panenic mentioned 2 billion kunas have not been returned. Both HDZ and HNS and SDP allowed that. So all the parties that have ruled over these 20 years allowed similar businessmen to get similar loans and eventually not even have to return them. So the question is, what are we doing in this country? For 2,000 kunas, we put the tip on, we grab him by the feet, we throw him out of the house, for 2 billion kunas nothing will happen to anyone. And our poor sad citizens, our farmers in Slavonia, who got the OPG's that they destroyed, and here billions are being thrown all over, and no one's returning them, not to mention 50 billion unpaid taxes, 8 billion concessions and such things, so normally we as a state can't function. The MPs won't come, what they'll get, they'll get paid for it. We're asking the businessmen if they can pay off their workers next month because everything went south in the country. And I'm a businessman, so I ask myself that question, we fight for workers to pay them, and others live as an age don't even have to pay their loans. And who lets them do that? So local self-government and similar people who know everything before he's a peasant and everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3519	Thank you. Timeout Thank you. [[I'm sorry. Thank you.]] The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3520	Yes, Mr. Misic, a fundamental question is now being raised, if so many billions are not charged, there are only three options, or the HBOR people are corrupt, so they gave credits even though they are aimed at not returning, politically similar people, primarily from the HDZ order, or other possibility that these individuals all had accidental business difficulties. But now, if it's such a large number and such a large percentage, we come to a third option, and the third possibility is that the financial system is corrupt and that loans can't actually be returned. So if we see ratios of how many loans are not returned we see that there is no one's responsibility here, but that there are only two options or a combination of two options, that people in HBOR are corrupt and that the monetary system is set in a way that loans are technically non-refundable. The question is, who's going to answer for it? Who will be responsible for this monetary policy? Governor Vujčić, because we can't even refuse his report, the HDZ gentlemen will certainly not control all institutions. You know who's gonna answer? They will answer the poorest of the poorest, the people who call us from the Living Wall to defuse them will eventually die. And then the same media you control will say The Living Wall didn't help anyone, the Living Wall didn't save anyone, don't vote for them, they're demagogues, and we're honest people, great patriots and credible people who say before the election that they'll protect the one real estate from the cause, and after the election. On the day that the government itself is called upon to move with its own hellish plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3521	Second replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3522	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, we need to be here for the public, the people who listen to us say, first you said I reported someone at HBOR, I didn't. But when I saw some illogicalities, then I signed up and I wanted them to investigate. So I specifically didn't report anyone, but when I saw that one of the loans you mentioned and mentioned before and the Most, I asked to see how it was possible for someone to get a loan of nearly 60 million kuna within a month of the application and not to return that loan. Well, that's normal, that a man who's on the board when he sees something like that requires that question. And then I've seen a lot, but since I'm in the obligation to keep my official secret, I'm not going to tell you right now, but all that information has to do with the State's Attorney's office. So that's not my job later and the investigation and the checks. It's not theirs. And on that side, I don't agree with you what happened while the SDP was in power or while I was a member of the Supervisory Board because here I'm going to tell you you told the EPH. The EPH was approved in 2011 and credit, I don't know exactly when it was paid in the day because I don't work in HBOR Technical Service, but it was approved in 2011 while HDZ was in power. We had another such request, if you remember the 21st century and digital medical services, which ended in bankruptcy we also had such a request on the Supervisory Board for 30 million kuna. I didn't want it to go, and I stopped that loan because I thought it was weird. So these things didn't happen during the SDP's term, and I beg you not to even it out. It's not the same thing. So when someone shares in this way as they were divided and otherwise acts as I did, it's just not the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3523	The answer to my colleague Pernar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3524	I thank Mr Maras for his correction, and unfortunately we all know that the crime ratios carried out by HDZ are asymmetric compared to what the SDP was doing, and that is why HDZ was also tried as it would say to the joint criminal enterprise for the robbery of the state. But what happened? The judiciary, the verdicts fell, and witnesses who testified that they were giving money, who testified that they were signing black fund payments they received amnesia overnight, forgot the cashier and accountant to whom they were giving and what was done. Suddenly all witnesses at the retrial, their testimony is no longer valid, now HDZ is in power. And what's going on? Of course, gentlemen of the HDZ that you will not be convicted, of course. So you will always wave stories about the rule of law and respect for institutions, and Pernar who says what you do is farce, it's hypocrisy. You'll say Pernar doesn't respect the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, what the DORH is doing, what Mr Maras selectively deals with only members of the opposition, and those in the ranks of HDZ authorities do not touch, do not touch and protect them, it is something that is urgently needed to be changed after the next parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3525	Thank you, but I would remind you, however, that many officials from the HDZ ranks were also subject to processing, which we remember. So it's not exactly the exact data, as it is not true to accuse HDZ of controlling all institutions because HDZ hasn't been in power for a long time. So we also remember former Finance Minister Linic's statement about HBOR's work. There's all kinds of information, so I'd like to ask you to at least put them in the same basket. Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate now. Next up is colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3526	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, I'm a participant of a lot of these debates about HBOR reports, they've always been dynamic, not with a lot of applications, but mostly it's always been a conflict of opposition and positions depending on the time the debates took place. What I can say and my presses over the past 10 days, we've heard a lot of debates about two banks, one CNB, the other here today, HBOR, and we've also heard observations about foreign-owned business banks, and I think it can all be summed up into maybe one sentence that I've agreed on. Our foreign-owned banks are not good because they are not in our possession and those that are in our possession or directly or indirectly are doing something with them are not good because they are in our possession. So in the whole system, we're not good at anything. And that's allowed and Parliament is an arena where all kinds of claims can be made, even those that eventually turn into one such claim, at least for me. As regards HBOR, they clearly show revenue 2013. 988 million, 2015. 927 million, 2013 expenditure 799 million kuna, expenditure 2015 721 million kuna. It means that in 2015 we were weaker than in 2013 at least in those segments. Interest revenue is lower in 2015, higher in 2013. The number of employees of 342, of which 295 highly educated, I believe that they are doing their job responsibly as the profession requires and I am not a supporter of various conspiracy theories or of some others that are often heard here. Women make up 68%, and we think that's where gender equality has done its part. As for credit ratings, I have seen in this report only a few who are listed individually as something that was good in 2015, it is primarily exporters that here is credited one ship, a cruiser, the largest sailboat owned by some firm in Monaco and built in our Brodosplit. Then, the construction of a power line between Albania and Kosovo, which is being re-run by our company. So are investments in Dubrovnik airport, building a hospital in Pula. I think they're good examples. In the end, I will say why I think it is justified that Mr. Lovrinović's demands are precisely linked to what you have stated in terms of the list of those to be credited over the course of some years. If we're allowed to think about these, it would be a good idea to know in one order and for everyone else if it wasn't going to be a bank secret. As far as the HDZ Club is concerned, we said clearly that we accept this report, it has always been accepted in the Croatian Parliament. The SDP was a little different to me today, but I understand them, they are an internal process, they choose their time or policies that they want to implement in the future, and there have been a lot of calls from the former minister to the current chairman of the administration whom the SDP has just set up in terms of what HBOR should do and what HBOR should look like. HBOR as an institution, as a state bank, is being built for 25 years and I would not easily go over some of the claims that have been made here today because 23 years is still some time when institutions have been built. She's justified her purpose or not, but the figure clearly says that... 52,000 and 976 loans totalling 147 billion kuna, this is not a meaningless amount for one state bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I said years when it went better, it was years when it went weaker. But in general, to say that it's all wrong, that everything is corrupt and everything is bad, I think it's too small of a claim. I personally don't believe in conspiracy theories, conspiracy theories as a solution to some complex issues that are being put under us or before us. But I can make those theories, I say as in this assembly look... very tempting, it's easy to hear them, and even believe in them if they're only looking at certain segments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards lending in 2015 2285 loans, 7.8 billion. Of the 100 million borrowed from foreign and financial institutions 50 went to Dubrovnik airport and the hospital in Pula, 50 for programming exporters if I saw well and that's what we need, we need a good Dubrovnik airport, we also need a hospital in Pula and we need exporters who are hiring. What I'm about to say is, I think it's good that in 2015 there was consolidation in the steering section, meaning in HBOR's structure because in 2014, unfortunately we witnessed that it might have been one of the worst years of HBOR marked by numerous affairs. We know that there was then a certain calculation within a political option that acted as a government and were removed as until then by the 20-year director of the management of Mr. Kovacev. After him came the second director who was only nine months there, Mr. Christian and then Mr. Tomašević as the third one who must have calmed down because the affairs began. I think that, here we heard today some exposure to what marked the year 2014 was certainly an affair of the Shegon who almost well shaken the then ruling structure. It was that a ministerial assistant apparently took advantage of his options as it was then performed or publicly published in the media and got something he may not have obtained or had no right to gain. There was a conflict of interest and everything else that one such affair could cause. So I think that regardless of all this and what was happening within some political option and the change of the Minister of Finance himself means that it was one core of the HBOR police entry to present documents from such an institution saying that we are a legal state, that we have to act according to the event and that after that, we may not have seen some of the results, because we know what the decisions were from the commission and further, the removed minister, came a new one but the system got settled and we see the results. What I personally expect is that, in the next period ahead of us, maybe the ministries through two projects that HDZ clearly advocated in its campaign, the Slavonia project and the Dalmatia project modelled by some projects that once, through politics, came up with something in this sense. It is not bad to remember a success program where dozens of small family hotels have been built, which are today, let's say, quality holders in Croatian tourism. So we had the construction of a fishing fleet with the help of several ministries and the subsidy of these ministries. That program ended, I think, with 2014. So I expect that through these two projects HBOR will be the institution that will continue to help to bring about the purpose of certain projects and all of them together to help hire i.e. the development of certain activities in areas from Slavonia to Dalmatia. What I would like is for us to settle the criteria equally in assisted areas because you today, given some activities that HBOR credits, you can get two different interest rates and you are on the same island. If you are engaged in tourism and want to build or restore a hotel on Rab, you will get interest I think 2%, if you are engaged in line transportation or build a ferry that needs everything and leads to that island, then you will get more interest or more 4% or 5%. I think that through some normative or different decisions, the administration itself should even it out because I think that every firm on the island or company is bigger or less on the island and should be helped equally. It's my opinion regardless of the activity he's dealing with. And what I said at the beginning, means what my colleague Lovrinović already mentioned, we saw good examples that you listed yourself even in pictures and figures, companies, i.e. The companies you credited in 2015 in terms of exports so it would be good if we had everyone else not to be us investigators here and that we weren't hunting down those who caught something or didn't, but that we know, when we know about these good ones, that we know about all the things HBOR did, that the funds were paved so that we don't think about which 100 companies and 6 billion non-refundable debt are constantly looking at us and maybe they're all on the left hand side or somewhere in the area. So we're also aware of what's behind all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3527	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. The first replica is Honorable colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3528	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In one part of the debate, you mentioned how HBOR handles gender representation, the number of employees, but this report is much more important to what it is and what this HBOR is, and especially when we see numerous irregularities and illegalities in credit placements. It certainly isn't enough just to open a company a month ago, be the girl of the prime minister's brother and get a little less than 2 million kuna or be of the prime minister's butcher, there's some kind of assistant and get a number of millions of kunas. It means that it was in certain stages and in certain steam laundromats in certain items where huge money was drawn from the political likeness or relational likeness of what is ecldent and what really resembles the wind power plants from the previous government that were going on. Therefore, it is not all so great, it is not great, and in essence the role of HBOR did not meet what should be met to encourage through monetary, commercial banks that do not respect it, to promote the development of medium-sized entrepreneurship and small and agriculture, but pro favours political elites, their members, party, family and godfather ties. It's from countless examples that have been listed so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3529	The reply to the replica, dear colleague Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3530	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, I've listed only the structure of the staff, she's like that, and she's not the most important in this whole story. But I also said that I don't doubt the expertise of these people because they're highly educated and that human moment whether someone did something outside the system and did something for someone because it's politically decent or unsuitable, it's in the area of some other institutions that need to be dealt with. And here we all reach for the courts, the verdicts, the indictments, and, among ourselves, by some colleagues, we make it easy to make some accusations from criminals, criminals, etc. And it's all making one picture and this bank that we're talking about today. That there was obviously some kind of abuse. What are we looking for? We're looking for a list that's going to come out so it's going to be public, it's going to be on the web or somewhere else, and then there are those who can deal with it, so let's see who's doing what. I don't mind it, it's our bank and we can manage it I say the way we think it's best. However, I'm not a priori against having a witch hunt because some segment or some official or someone inside the system might have done something they shouldn't have done, so everyone else who used such a bank's services in the same regime. I think it's not like that, and individual problems have always come out as affairs, as certain problems, as individuals, and they're being debated. Surely there may be even now, they will see and there will be a time in front of us that happened especially in the section you mentioned by the government in the last part when those decisions may not have been made and which will fall on the burden of taxpayers. It'll show time.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3531	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3532	Here's my esteemed colleague, Boric, of course it's not the world of black and white, I didn't say so in my presentation. I also listed some things that are good, but I pointed out first of all that institution that we have to reposition it. HBOR is no longer the one from '92. A year. Here it is indicative that the parties that were in power had their own administrations today unreservedly supported this report. The same parties supported the Croatian National Bank report last week. So in this country something, the key things don't change. We have to answer the question why is that. But here I'm going to look back at the part that you said to ask you a question, and here on the right hand side of the SDP, HDZ you're switching the ball to each other. Well, it's been four years, HDZ coming down. The HDZ administration's gone, the SDPs are coming. So why didn't you publish this to each other for the public means a list of credits. It has to be public, it's budget money. I've forgotten here to emphasize the exposure so far has been since '92. To date, 6 and a half billion kunas of budget money have been paid to finance, i.e. to approve the loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So if you are, you said you're not going to hunt witches to announce to each other what anyone did, so maybe this would be a good opportunity for the citizens to finally agree on HDZ, SDP to measure these 2 billion kunas of outstanding claims who's responsible. But we have to answer that question. We're interested in citizens, and we're not going to accept the report, this session is going to end, everything about how gentlemen are doing 2 billion is a terrible amount of money. In them, this country can swim, it's monetary rain. Someone's got to file a bill for that. So please tell me, answer this question on the left or right as it stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3533	Replication response, dear colleague Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3534	Thank you very much. Comrade Lovrinović, you didn't listen to me very well. I said I don't want this Parliament to be the one that drives the witch hunt in the sense that we ourselves as a person, individuals have the right to say that and that one has taken so much without responsibility or the possibility of being sued at all, given that on this speaker whatever is said and no one can call you to account, so we hear everything and everything in particular from a club where the name and last name are really called people. I don't know if it's like that or not, how am I supposed to know? But if you said you needed a list, that was already through a few discussions. The SDP had that chance. After that he set up his administration three, so two pardons. He replaced Mr. Kovacev, who's been there for 20 years and he's been building this system and I think he's been very well in control of that system. Why was he removed? I don't know. In 2014, I say it was a turbulent year, and the Shegon affair has completely shaken relations within that bank. And today we have 2016, the management is from 2015, and we'll see what the future time will show. I expect here for the next time whether the new administration will give it to us. Well, maybe I don't want it personally, if it's going to be possible, I don't know if anyone calls it a bank secret, so we can't. So I said there are bright examples that are listed here as something that is good to borrow, so if we can and why not know these others. Which I would protect because he took as a businessman a loan, failed and nothing at all. And citizens for several thousand kunas must be left without their property. But I've been talking about it for a few years. Why did we get into that system that the economy is allowed everything, and the private person with seven guarantees and a mortgage is nothing. It is a question that we will certainly continue to discuss, but in the sense that we find some solution that will satisfy without us hunting these witches and constantly inventing individuals who should be impaled to a pillar of shame or a pillar of public opinion and then dissipating them in this House without having the right to answer themselves. Here's what I've been against since the beginning of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3535	And the third replica, the esteemed colleague Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3536	Comrade Boric, I agree with you that everything must be published, nothing must be denied. Why some structures of Croatian society should be responsible for their actions and actions by name, especially when we see Croatian defenders who can be called, dragged, tried 20 times in all news, spinning them in the newspapers, insulting their families and themselves. So I also have to answer to this today about the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which seems to have been a bar of pigs for certain people in power. I'm also going to have to remember Mr. Bull, it wasn't as hard as Pernar for me to go to Google, Google, Google, and see something. So it also says here it's not a witch hunt, it's not a lustration, but the Vecernji list reveals only two months after Zoran Milanovic's arrival as prime minister of his brother Krešimir Milanovic's company, I'm sorry to say his name there so Miguel Autobraone received 250000 euros in loans from HBOR. The company was founded in April 2011 not a full year later received a loan of 4.4% interest, a payment deadline of 7 years and 9 months. I don't know what a Croatian entrepreneur would give for such interest or for a loan like this, because I've raised a loan recently very large with 9% interest. So I wouldn't know what, what vote for this just to give me a little less interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3537	Thank you very much. Replication response, dear colleague Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3538	Thank you very much. My colleague Culej, so I'm a little surprised to hear from our other side today, here's Mr. Maras is an example, and he forgot all of these who were the basis for Croatia's recovery and development bank to shake thoroughly in 2014. And now we're listening to this, as we've been reading in the media for days, I don't know, someone gave someone 500 euros to shut up a week for expenses and 100 grand as a reward for the end because you saw something you shouldn't have seen. And we're all criminals, we're all honest people, and we all need to keep our mouths shut and look at it, and it's not a problem. But let's be the ones who are on track for what we've offered through the Prime Minister who said I want inclusiveness, I want to hear all of you working together to find the best solutions, to go over some of the things that have determined us in previous times. And I'm glad that, let's say, ideology may have disappeared in one large part of this assembly and we should talk about some of the things that are professional, which are the essence of life today for a man in Croatia and who should interest us as those chosen to think about it. We're going to have a tax reform very quickly at the debate, and here we see the opening statements are negative, but let's listen to what's really going to happen. And judging this government that just started after 20 days just because it started and it's guilty of everything, I don't think it's correct, but it's allowed. And there will be time ahead of us, hopefully the entire mandate, to clear up all of our doubts and to clear up who did what or didn't. But the basis for all of us must be to respect the institutions as well as the state that has been built for 25 years, as well as the HBOR that has been built and that we do not easily pronounce certain claims that really know to be offensive and insult the common sense of the Croatian citizen, no matter what side they come from, and we do not have the possibility of having someone on the other hand answer us whether such business opportunities or not present in this assembly. I think in time, we're still going in a better direction. A... has ahead of him within the party process and all possibilities. We'll see where it ends.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3539	Thank you, fellow Boric. Thank you very much. Right now, we're going to take a break from our esteemed colleagues and colleagues until 3:00. The first individual debate is the esteemed colleague of Gordan Maras. Thank you very much. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3540	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] And the first is the honourable representative of Gordana Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about HBOR and that's what we've seen from the beginning, the debates are lively, people have certain arguments, memories, ideas, but first let me say a few things about the report itself. I, of course, support it, I think that people, especially now in the last two years they've been doing very good things, they've done a lot of good things, it's seen by the increase in the number of loans, and by how many new services they offer, at the drop of interest rates. Of course, here we should say that this has contributed to the global market and opportunities and resources that are being submitted to the HBOR as a bank, an institution of an EU member state, all of which has led to our entrepreneurs having a higher source, lower costs and greater funding of their projects. At first, I said that I am particularly pleased that the availability of these funds has become too much for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and this should continue to be supported despite the fact that one large part of the funds we invest in infrastructure, we have seen projects here such as the airport, such as the Pula Hospital. So there's a lot of projects like shipbuilding that I'm sure wouldn't have survived if it weren't for HBOR and so it should continue. I would like to draw your attention to one thing, which is, you should always look at the reports and financial indicators, I am pleased that when we compare 2011 and 2015, we see that HBOR in loans is more generous and in costs more modest, so with more work less costs, total expenditures are less than 10%, 11, 12%, almost a hundred million kuna. And this shows that you can, in a good way, do the job you put before the institution. And on the other hand, interest incomes are also there somewhere and 10% more is credit placement or what the HBOR has placed or what the HBOR has outside I would tell my house. On the other hand, this is how it should continue, but what needs to be pointed out in particular should be supported by people who work in quality that I should not say because of the current political, moment or desire to place their criticism and some MPs have a problem with elementary logic. When they say that certain projects from the previous period are as speculative, especially will-noting in 2011 and commend those who issued them. So all the projects that are allegedly speculative, which Mr. Boris said in his debate, were approved by Mr. Kovacev. So make up your mind. You said the man in 2014 was politically removed, that he was doing an excellent job and then out of the sleeve or from the google or from the YouTube you were pulling information that these loans he approved were not good. So it can't be both. You can't be a professional and know-it-all man and on the other hand have projects that he's been publishing, that are bad for you, that show I don't know what scandals etc.. So you have to choose one thing or another. And there's actually a very bad thing to see that an ex-post mind is a very bad thing. I was always consistent at HBOR and I tried to look at the public interest of our society first, entrepreneurs, citizens, of course they were, HBOR has always supported... who are a little bit more risky than what banks would be willing to do, they will not enter into a project to finance some of the things that are interesting to Croatia and the risk exists, because of this, is a development bank that has to do business for the Croatian economy to benefit from it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, we need to take advantage of the moment, which is economic growth, a major source of funding from the funds that the HBOR has for reconstruction and development. We must use this positive moment, the take-off of the Croatian economy to move on and we must not do exactly what we are doing in Croatia at this time. And what is done is that people are being demoted to invest especially in a very important sector such as tourism. It's about changing the rules of conduct from today to tomorrow without a public debate where 20, 30 thousand Croatian entrepreneurs don't even know what position they'll be in in a month, many of them are users of credit in HBOR, I guarantee you of these 2300 entrepreneurs, I don't know the exact data but 5 hundred are minimally related to the tourism sector. So at one point we used to joke and say that HBOR should be renamed Croatian Tourist Bank for Reconstruction and Development because most major projects in 2014, 2015 were touristic. And that's why we started the economy, the construction sector, tourism, and that's why it came to 2015 economic growth, 2016 even more. And now you're jeopardizing it, so it doesn't make any sense. I'm really surprised at the people who are responsible for the economic portfolio in the government to go with such a reckless policy. I'd say excel suffers everything, put in how many companies there are, income, expenses, taxes, and set you straight. And if this is going to happen, I don't believe it, and in the end, I think we'll all be witnesses to it if, with all these non-entrepreneurship, not the tourist measures proposed by the HDZ Government and the Most. And that is why I appeal once again if we want to take advantage of HBOR's potential, if we want the 2016 report to be even more and better done everything you can to keep entrepreneurs from being burdened. So much money that you want to take away from Croatian caterers, someone's talking 3 billion kunas, so what sector can take it? And then you throw away a little something, he says we're gonna release some and medium-sized entrepreneurs 8% of the profit tax. Does anyone even know how much money it is from here on out here the parliamentary representatives and those who should know? It's 300, 400 million kuna and on the other hand we're taking 3 billion to the sector that got us out of the crisis. And then they throw themselves, here at the pay phone we heard today, and I would say silly electricity charges because they're going to collect electricity for not finding this government, and if there was any need for the past year to react exactly to the minister who is sitting here with us today, he's not in the assembly, but I have to mention I'm sorry, Mr Panenic could react. He could've made the power cheap, but not now that the power will pick up, and then someone sixth in power who hasn't been in power in a year and a few days. And that shows that we don't have any concepts either in the MOST or in the HDZ, or in the partners who support it. It goes about to the occasion, Croatian entrepreneurs and citizens will pay the price, believe me these 400 million kuna tax exemptions will not replace all these problems we have. Croatian citizens will also feel no benefit next year when we have the HBOR report, let's not be surprised when the credit activity is lower. And to say something about the ability of the former government, MOST and HDZ to tell you enough about the situation in HBOR when they couldn't agree on a board member for nine months, there was a conflict between Shuker and Maric who would sit on the board of directors, so we didn't appoint three in the Assembly to the supervisory board, they couldn't agree on the appointment of a new administration, Mr Panenic's vice-president was one of the most responsible there. And then what are we talking about here? That something is being solved in Croatia, that the position for our entrepreneurs and citizens is going to be better? Unfortunately, he won't, and I'm afraid that next year whether this successful administration remains or if a new report comes along that we'll look at and see will be much worse than what it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3542	Thank you very much. I see that you are persistent in that Latin or Roman politician Cetherum Chanceo, and then you proceeded to the tax laws, whatever it is, that have not yet appeared before us, but well. We have several replicas on your exhibit. First exhibit, the first replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You've said a lot of sentences to your colleague Maras, and the one that forced me to replicate today is dimming people into investing in work. I don't know if you've woken up from a strange dream or what happened to you but worse climates dimming I don't practically remember in the Croatian state since you were Minister of Small and Medium Enterprises and crafts. Whether or not you think it's encouraging entrepreneurs to raise and borrow and develop and that with entrepreneurs who owe the state a few hundred thousand kunas, a million kunas for taxes that it's okay for the minister to ride with them on those prigorje slopes up there on horseback and thus encourage entrepreneurs to develop and on the other hand hang that list of debt shames. If you consider it some kind of incentive to develop entrepreneurship and stimulate a factor, then I find it odd that you were a general minister. On the other hand, I have one more thing to say, when you've been calling for tenders to withdraw funds from European money for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, you know what they've always said? I've been working with them for a couple of days, it's not for us, we can't get to that money, it's like that fox and stooge, you get in a fox jar to come from inside, and the stooge on the soup plate to chew out of it, you see it, but you can't taste it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3544	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3545	Mr. Hrg, the fact that you don't remember bad times for entrepreneurs doesn't surprise me because you don't do it anyway and you haven't paid much attention to that segment and you don't normally remember. We'll sit down for coffee and I'll explain everything if you have five minutes it won't be long. But if you don't believe me, then trust me, do a business table that says that in 2015 we fell four places on that table for not implementing tax reform and for the more difficult conditions of business. You don't trust Maras, you don't trust Bull. Trust doing the business table. What's simpler about that? So here's what I'm going to print for you and take it, read it, and then you'll see that even though you don't remember 2014 or 2015 that it's worse this year than it was for you. It doesn't take long to get back. As for my spare time, so let me decide for myself what I'm going to do and how I'm going to do it and where I'm going to spend it. Let's just say it was very pleasant for me in your home village in Calnick Creek when we opened a DVD home and where people know that gentleman you're talking about where he absolutely beat you and your list. Well, since people know him so well, it means he won there. Well, I'm glad to be in a society like that where people recognize. ... Let go of what he spent, what he didn't spend. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'm telling you that I had a great time in the Calnick creek where you lost the election, that's your birthplace, and where that gentleman won. [[Intruder Reiner: Let's not pollemize that way, please.]] And why don't you go back to Kalniki Creek. Why don't you go back to Kalniki Creek where I'm very nice?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3546	Thank you very much. Let's not leave the place. Please, the next replica is that of the esteemed counsel of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3547	Your Honor. Comrade Maras, I listen to you as if I see Robin Hood as a Croatian people, a Croatian man, a man who until the last drop of blood, the last drop of sweat fights for the wrong people of Croatia, citizens, workers and everything else. So also, they just texted me. Says 2014. Maras while he was in HBOR, something was probably working there, with him looking for a loan from the RIZ our employees and representatives and getting zero kuna. He says we are a people's property and his words are words. He hired a secretary with him, someone, a wife of some Sisak mayor, a French Thompson who also produced transmitters. Like RIS, he received millions of euros from France, which invests in its entrepreneurs. Well, I'd also say there was talk here about some register of HBOR loan users. It would be very good to make that register, to see who got those HBOR loans on which preferences and why. Since we had during your term of office and the defence register that resulted in all the addresses of Croatian defenders where they can be persecuted. So we had from your ranks, your colleagues sitting close to you, now he's gone, who made one register or a pillar of shame where they were enforcing all Croatian entrepreneurs who had fallen into certain debts due to the climate in Croatian entrepreneurship and investments in the same way, in a way that they had been stimulated by 17% interest on their tax debts and interest on interest, so it got into their mains, so these people got into loans and swamps where they couldn't get away with it. And in doing so, he forgot his wife with ten million kunas that she had blacked out somewhere, so please comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3548	Here will be answered by Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3549	I didn't hear whose wife, so I can't? And listen, I don't touch other people's wives. [[Intruder: Someone's.]] Oh, no? So, Mr. Culey Stevo, I'm glad you noticed these things here, not only you, but also Croatian citizens that I'm fighting for them. [[Intruder Reiner: It is commendable!]] Thank you, too, for your compliment. As far as information is concerned, I'm not really Robin Hodd, but I do know some things. So for example, what you just said 17% is not true because there is no such charge in Croatia. So the tight interest is 12%. It's for the next debate that you have when you answer. So the maximum is 12%. If, and I see that you're good at Gogle no, so that you Googled me honestly I didn't even work at HBOR to issue credits, so I couldn't even go for credits. You know, when I do some business, I make sure someone comes to me personally and asks for credit, because then there's no need to have a system, there's no need to have an organization. Such one exists in Zagreb, it solves everything. So I don't imagine I know everything, nor do I want to do everything. There are professional services in HBOR and they are addressed, so I shouldn't have come for a loan. And with the RIS people, we've talked a lot of times. Unfortunately, most of the talks were about how to keep the company safe because there it wanted to be torn apart for land, etc. As for my secretary, my secretary as I went, so did he. And now we're going to have like a public tender in the ministries where people will stay forever. So Mr. Culey, don't let people come with the minister and stay forever, it's HDZ practice. At my place when I left, he left. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3550	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3551	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, even though you're a little off topic, I think this is very important what you've said. Many entrepreneurs, especially in Slavonia, will stress that I have entered certain investments whether it is through the credit lines of business banks or HBOR, who have planned their business with a single VAT rate hard to withstand the impact, it is 12%, if these allegations are correct, 12% of which the entrepreneur can withstand. Of course, the interpretation was that they too strongly said that when their VAT fell, they did not lower prices. However, when we talk about hospitality, we must distinguish tourism on the Adriatic and continental tourism or in general one cafe in Slavonia. It's very difficult to actually reduce the price of drinking, because the price is on the verge of economic viability anyway. And in that sense, I think this comment of yours is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3552	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3553	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, I must tell you one thing, and that is that I have not strayed from the subject at all, that is essentially the most important topic of this HBOR report. Whether or not we will have any conditions for those who are the biggest users of HBOR, which are people who have invested in the past years the most, and this is about people from the tourism sector, this is about those who will be hit by 12%. And if you ask me what I think, said counterpart Reiner, says no one's seen it yet, hasn't seen it, but we've heard it from relevant sources, and if you ask me what I think about it it's a pure disaster. Don't do this, people. The proposal for tax reform is a disaster, and an even bigger disaster will be if we adopt it this way. I see voices of reason in the government, and I see some ministers who oppose it. Support them. You don't need to show force over your knee. If people think they made money, I don't know what money they were hiding it from? Why didn't they pay off the profits? Why can't you see that? So we have a fiscalization, there could be no theft. How is it possible that this money missed last year then Minister Maric was not charged, and we don't see him on the balances of those caterers I'm talking about. Three billion kunas, we want to put extra weight on them. We're not going to burden them, we're going to burden people. After all, in this difficult situation and in our people, we make it difficult for that elemental part of life, socializing, getting out, sitting in a bar, trying to fire them, and on the other hand they won't get anything at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3554	Thank you. The last replica of the esteemed representative Nikola Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3555	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you spoke very little about the HBOR report. You're talking about the effects of tax reform, I'm now checking who's in the materials, I see it's not in the materials or the agenda. Of course, you should go back to HBOR now, and you were one of the members of the body in HBOR, so it would be good, here's what my colleagues told me before that you could see the register of all those who took the loans and see if it was true in the former governments of the girl of the prime minister or the butcher of the prime minister who had been there and under what conditions they had met the conditions like other citizens. That would be discussed, but you certainly know a lot about it, much more than all of us here did you call Minister Panenic who was very short. But the fact is also when you are already breaking the rules of procedure when you talk about wind power plants that it is a catastrophic contract signed by the Croatian Government i.e. voted in the last session of Zoran Milanovic's mandate, which you were in. I don't know, maybe you were against it so you wouldn't sin on the soul that the effects would be devastating, and they'd get into someone else's pockets, and they'd have to pay unfortunately for poor citizens, unfortunately. So we go back to the issue of HBOR which is obviously here which is post office and sharing money, but the criteria are unknown, that's the worst in this whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3556	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3557	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, first of all, I don't know about any HBOR credit associated with wind power plants that would be at the expense of the HBOR or not being returned. You could say that the president of the administration, there were several such cases, something not in my memory I'm saying, but these were quite physical projects, quite often the banks went 50-50 with HBOR. What they're doing means that in that ratio it's not that big a problem for this project, so I don't think there was any problem. I don't know what you're talking about, but you're talking about a disaster all the time, and you can't be specific. Tell us exactly what is a disaster, what is so harmful to Croatia and the citizens that everyone knows it. The easiest thing to say is disaster, will damage Croatian citizens, and then people think about what it might be. Say it specifically. On the other hand, if you're going to take a look, and you can, type in my last name HBOR and credit list and then you'll see that I'm exactly the one who's advocated all the time to show which credits were granted from when to when. It's no secret, I've said it a few times, I haven't been able to realize it once, because it was a great resistance. And you know who the great resistance was? Ha this expert, defended by his colleague, Mr. Kovac or Mr. Shuker, he also did not want to do so and strongly opposed the board meetings because it would say it would harm the institution, it would be seen who did not get who and then someone would find himself and say this one got, this one did not. I'm just the one, and I'm saying that again, you can check on the Internet who's been looking for it several times, but I didn't come across understanding, and then because of the line of less resistance that no, when there's no consensus, they don't conflict, then you let it go and it never happens. But in HAMAG there are all, all the companies where I was responsible, there are all the companies that have received guarantees and incentives. Look at that on the Internet you have, so where I was responsible, we published it, but unfortunately in HBOR I failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3558	Thank you. The next individual will be the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3559	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed president of the HBOR administration, Mr. Tomaševic, with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I will try to touch a few points in a brief discussion that are considered important to me and related to this report. First of all, I would like to commend the content of the report itself, the report is extensive. And of course this presentation you delivered with the report is good. What may or may not be seen in this debate, which may be missing, when we look back at previous years, perhaps more of that information about these loans that were risky, actually which are not, which today is not charged, that may be something that interests the representatives, here we see it in the debate and showed it. The report shows us the path to which we should go and, of course, here in that sense and a path we should not or should have gone before and it was wrong. What is good and what should certainly be commended and that is an increase in the amount of credit ratings. And of course, this ratio in which these credit ratings go in favour of export investments in relation to what previously went on, which was mostly tradeable assets but which is understandable given the state of entrepreneurship at that previous stage. So what we can see is that the economy with a billion and 755 million kuna, exporting 2 billion 374. And small and medium entrepreneurship billions and 600 million kunas. What Lalovac stressed in his discussion on behalf of the club is related to the structure of approved loans. It is evident that HBOR participates more and more in plasma and less in basic banks. And what's seen from the report is that HBOR had a profit of 205 million kuna and here, a colleague of Lalovac pointed out that the business banks, that are exclusively, their motives are a bonus and management that come, a short time with... They don't really care if the Croatian economy progresses, but it should certainly be the care of the HBOR. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I think in that part you see really moving forward and that's especially positive. In the end, I would just like to say what is highlighted here in the debate and I think it's extremely important and it's education. You have various programs through HBOR, through HAMAG. But people just don't get along. What I'd like to say, and that's what someone pointed out here, is that we need to finance the project documentation, and we need to help people. Because often just because people don't know each other, they don't even report to competitions and then they don't use the means that would possibly be available to them. I'll mention one example, the man had a very good intention, it's about building a pig farm. And watch out when he went into it, it's, even the business bank said the project was okay, but a series of difficulties appeared. It is very difficult to actually predict, in the business plan, what will be the price of pig meat in a few years, and what will actually be the input parameters and food needed. And then the man, I guess it was, the man just because he didn't know how to get along well, didn't go through and watch out he was, he and his family were willing to invest everything, everything they had and put on a mortgage. And their family house, and all the economic buildings, didn't pass, so they just wondered if the future here was more for us or if we had to go like everyone else out. And in that sense, I think that education is important and that HBOR should, I think, make such programs that I simply see that you have outposts here on the ground, means to become people on the ground, talk to people, contact county development agencies, with urban development agencies because above all, it comes to the OPG and present to him what he might be able to do and realize is extremely important. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3560	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3561	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sagar, you mentioned this case with the agricultural program. If you have noticed in this report the credit rating from HBOR in 2015 for agricultural activity remained in that section. It should be much higher status in the HBOR because it is the only bank that could actually safeguard and defend agricultural production. I don't know how you're commenting that it crashed so badly in 2015. Why agricultural production and lending of agricultural production came under the headings of others. Here we are talking about a good report, fellow Maras was talking about an excellent situation and the general political, economic and everything else, is that somewhere in that period about 5,000 trades were less and we're talking about it here but we know what happened to agriculture at that time, and this is actually just proof of a catastrophic policy towards that branch of production that was just about to be kept here, so they're destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3562	The honourable representative Tomislav Žagar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3563	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrg, I agree with you that the situation in agriculture is quite difficult. What has plagued farmers for many years is, in fact, the price of their products. I think there's a basic problem, and whatever they are, however they plan their future activities, they're always faced with not knowing what the price of their products will be when they take it off their fields. When it comes to the measures that, with you, I agree that the column remains, I think that agriculture should have a special item to see exactly what it is, which has been realized, which has not been realized. I'm not really sure when you're talking about the government's work, but now the government that Minister Jakovina was in, I'm not so sure what you're alluding to. I agree that there has been a gap, for example, with measure 4.1, but there has been a large number of problems in agriculture in general for 20 years, starting with the availability of agricultural land. Many municipalities and cities have done well. However, there are still situations in the field where you really do, even though they own these people, don't process the country, and then they sublet it and then you actually create a situation where you can't make a good business plan for success in agricultural production. That's why it's certainly not her fault either, and tomorrow if this government doesn't work on it and the current minister won't get far, because things have to be solved in agriculture. We had 19 ponds, of which 19 only two had valid contracts. We didn't even have a book of rents, a book of due claims in agriculture. So these are the things we have to deal with in agriculture because agriculture is certainly entrepreneurship. And in order for our OPGs to survive on that market they need to be educated, they need to be helped, and I agree with you that HBOR as here is the only bank that could help in this regard should pay more attention, especially in this going to the field and talking to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3564	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative, God Ljubic. Here you go. Please turn yourself in. Something's wrong. Either you didn't get involved or you didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3565	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Honorable President, I went through to be honest with you through this HBOR report of some 195 pages and, of course, I didn't answer for the debate because I think there are more invited and competent to talk about this. However, the incentive for me to report to this replica now is that the debate of my colleague, Žagar, who spoke about the need for education and... in the public of potential investors and businessmen, actions and programmes of the HBOR, and in this context, I also wanted to propose that according to the Croatian diaspora which therefore has the highest quality, I would say with capital di the possibility of investing and provide support to HBOR for investment in the Republic of Croatia. Also with the position of Croatians from the BIH, I believe that through several segments of HBOR activity, investment, employment, staying in the front row of Croats in BIH, which is a strategic interest I am safe and the Republic of Croatia and the strategic national interest and ultimately the prime minister identified in his exhibition BIH as a priority foreign policy goal. So, crediting from funding projects financed from EU funds, that is something that can certainly satisfy both Croatia and Croatia's areas in the BIH. The reduction of interest on companies that come out with quality projects that involve investing, so to speak in the BiH and then satisfys this segment of HBOR's export-related role. Specifically, therefore, certain production could be invented in the BIH, I say encouraging the employment of people there, staying. But Croatia can also profit in its export goal by making some markets more accessible to BiH companies, and some of which, of course, Croatia, are completely inaccessible from the BIH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3566	Thank you. The distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3567	Thank you, Vice President. Very short. My dear colleague, I am also a member of the Committee on Croatians outside the country of origin, and I propose that we organise this as one thematic session of the committee and discuss this issue at this thematic session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3568	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, following this report we received today, i.e. several days ago at the table, as well as the debate so far, I am convinced that such a report by the HBOR should not be accepted. So I would like to briefly explain what I resent in this report in this regard, and I would not want to spend your precious time in a way that I refer to too much political influence in governance and credit as some MPs have already mentioned, especially my colleague Pernar. In order to properly inform the public, it should be said that HBOR is not a bank in the right sense of that word, given that it does not operate with the objective, the primary objective of obtaining or operating by accounting rules, nor does it have business, nor does it collect savings, and therefore its sole aim is to lend it to the development of the economy. Since it's her only real job, HBOR has disproportionately and unfairly high interest rates that are between 3% and 6%. It should be recalled that they were only 1% early in some periods, so these are now increased interest rates and it is also bad that most credits are therefore being placed over 50% over commercial banks. Which means that users cannot contact HBOR directly, which should actually be a good practice for every similar bank in Europe. In fact, there is not only a question of this central register that would have to exist and where everything that needs to be known about customers should be united, but in general there is a very bad personal contact of HBOR with users. They don't know their clients, they rarely contact them personally and they rarely go out into the field to get to know those whom they give them. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is also giving these too high interest rates, it gives them at variable rates, so it gives a variable interest rate that it can change itself. I think that interest rate should definitely be determined according to some other parameters. I would also like to point out that during this debate we get a lot of complaints from people who have done business with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, who complain that the bank is very three, very slow and unpleasant in communication. That some credit solutions are being resolved for more than a year and that numerous obstacles to bureaucratic nature as well as parafiscal burdens occur during credit approval. There are cases that some credit users had to deliver more than 50 documents to obtain credit, while some of the conditions were contrary to both Croatian and European legal practices, for example, the owners of shareholders had to guarantee their personal assets to repay loans, which is why no bank in Croatia has such conditions. There is also a poor practice of parafiscal intrusion in Croatia, so-called "Strengthen". The cost of processing credits that practically do not exist anywhere in Europe. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development charges the cost of processing the loan 0.8%, which means that someone for a loan of 10 million kuna must give the bank 80000 kuna completely unwarranted because these employees have a job description, so the processing of the credit and there is no reason to charge such high amounts, so I repeat the credit to the users before I have such practices in Europe. If there is, then the cost of processing the credit is minimal, meaning maximum to 0.2%. Also in building permits are therefore already in that initial state the consent of the Ministry of the Environment and then the HBOR requests an additional 4 pages to meet the same agreement which takes valuable time for credit users, but also charges additional costs. People complained that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was also an expert on construction licenses, which is a completely unnecessary job and serves and reminds in fact, alluding to, therefore, the guessing of some of its partners because those people who do the cost of building permits are generally far more competent than the witches who do the same work. There are also cases that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has requested an assessment of the future value of objects and businesses, which is truly amazing because it is already moving into some field of visibility that someone finds out that a particular project will look like three, five or ten years from now, which is really nowhere in the world that such an assessment is done. There are also known cases that the HBOR has asked companies to report on any taxed profits, which means that they have in some way taken the right to represent the administration of individual companies, practically a forced administration. Such conditions of business are very bad especially when we hear that they are not equal for all, that they are applied selectively, and not in the processing of all loans, and especially not as we have heard about these certain loans such as loans to the EPH or for, therefore, butchers from rows of similar parties. Therefore, the execution of the use of credit should therefore be supervised, but not in such a way that people are harassed and are actually killed by the will to do something in Croatia, so that then many of them think or leave their job or move it somewhere outside Croatia. All of this, therefore, we can add to the set of objections a bad impression that creates benefits for HBOR employees who in some ways show a tendency to make the HBOR its own purpose the same as the CNB. It is interesting to note that neither the HBOR enters the State Audit nor the CNB, but neither the CNB has the right to oversee it. In addition to HBOR employees having very high salaries, they also pay for themselves incentives that are allegedly a business secret. They pay their rewards, drive official cars, have official phones, pay insurance policies, very high severance payments, which scandalized the public even for a little internship in the administration. They have the right to the cost of clothing, have the right to medical leave, have the right to treatment according to the doctor's recommendation, and now I don't know if they still have it, I'd like to have an answer from an HBOR representative in his final statement of credit subsidy. So it's a very embarrassing practice that someone, with all these benefits he has and all that profit he makes with relatively weak results, still takes the privilege of subsidising his personal loans to taxpayers' money. For all these reasons, I want to say that this report didn't convince me, I repeat once again to give him a passing grade. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3570	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of distinguished representative Josip Krizanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3571	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to point out today's exposure to a series of problems faced by the businessmen on the occasion of the loan and I am one of them and I had the opportunity to start a loan in HBOR, and some of it was taken from me by my colleague Bunjac, but there's a lot more I want to point out. The report of the Committee on Finance and Budgets, among other things, states that 2,285 loans were granted in 2015 and that it is the largest in HBOR's current business. It is particularly stressed that the ratio of loans granted for investments is 82% and for crafts assets 18%, and among... interest rates one point. That's commendable and good and that's okay. I ask us, is HBOR the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development? It's probably. Is the interest of HBOR profiting from 206 million kuna or the development of the economy and employment, as well as the creation of added value, especially in rural areas and Croatian agriculture. HBOR's basic reports show that it has been correctly developed, says that the HBOR's business within its powers and competences encourages systematic sustainable equal development of the Republic of Croatia, and writes that priority areas of action are development of small and medium-sized enterprises, promotion of exports, development of tourism, development of new technology, financing of agricultural development, EU funds, environmental protection and... Now I ask the question, can the Croatian agrarian also have to bear the interest of 4% or 6 economies in 2016? So these are the interest that was agreed seven or eight years ago and whether such interest can be reduced today, for example. 1%? Is it not precisely the task of the HBOR to reprogramme unfavourable loans previously agreed to help the economy and agriculture, rather than to take over thousands of farms, and to throw the owners on a beggar stick because these farms would most likely be in operation today if interest rates had been reduced? So I'm interested in the following questions that impose themselves. First of all, and this is a very important question that no one has mentioned today, why does the HBOR client have to pay a 25% stake on the occasion of receiving HBOR credits, whose idea is that? If we can change that as Parliamentarians, if we can, then we need to change that because I don't see any reason for that. So the client doesn't get, for example, a million kuna, but 750 grand. Furthermore, a very important question, which is why each year an estimate of the same property is given in stock, for example. Building land worth 50 million kunas is a mortgage for a 10 million kuna loan? You have to re-evaluate that same building land every year. What if it even dropped the value of such a mortgage in the eighth year of credit, and the client regularly pays the rates? Then will HBOR stop following him? He won't. Then why the assessment of the same property every year? Isn't that a very large parafiscal load? Furthermore, why is HBOR the only one charging an early repayment fee? Wasn't the loan fee itself already mentioned by his colleague Bunjac of 0.4% of HBOR and 0.4% of the business bank that is a total of 0.8% of the huge fee, whether HBOR can give up that fee when it is already charging interest, and, of course, it should seek to introduce a model of complete direct payment of HBOR's loans to the economy. Why does each tranche of credit have to wait until 15 days? Why, for example, isn't it five or seven days? Such leniency of a state bank or... a sector to which each day before payment means life. Now the question is, isn't HBOR too expensive a bank? How long does it take to approve loans in HBOR, how do credit prices for end-users form? How many levels does he approve of loans in the same office? Then they go to credit, supervisory, management, and it takes months. I ask the question of efficiency, organisation and responsibility. Who is filming whom, how long has his job been done in time and how are his deadlines? So the purpose of my debate is not to criticise the work of HBOR's financial operations, but I wanted to point out a number of common life-to-life practical problems for businessmen to respond to immediately and to change them for the better and all for the purpose of expeditionivity. Also, this debate of mine does not diminish the strong positive shift in HBOR's overall business in 2015, and related to the placement of the credit where every good result delights us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3572	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3573	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Tomaševic, I actually have questions about HBOR, first of all, I support all the activities that encourage micro and small entrepreneurs exclusively micro and small because I think that in a healthy way they would become medium and large, first they should be micro and small entrepreneurs. I come from the real sector, and I come from the micro and small sector. And otherwise, I am the founder of the first enterprise complete institution in Split-Dalmatin County, one of the three private institutions in the country as a whole. So in my previous work, I realized over 300 and the company, so micro-small and craftsmen as well as two beginners of which one is already on the world market so I know very well what the end-user's problems with HBOR are and they should actually be the most important in this whole story, and then I'll start to ask questions that I have for HBOR and I'd like to ask if you can answer that for me during your final presentation. On HBOR's pages, it is obvious that you have 342 employees, whether it is accurate information that out of 342 employees are in fact only 30 of those related to the number of credit references and even fewer who are in direct contact with clients, because if that information is correct then we should not be surprised at the fact that for the approval of the credit through HBOR it takes from 4 to 6 months and I think you should be aware that these 6 months entrepreneurs in each, and especially the beginner means very much. I was the first person to refer every entrepreneur to an alternative loan, believe it or not there are loans that have been settled over a month and at a better interest rate and I think it should be HBOR that has the best chance for our entrepreneurs. The second question, if you say that you have placed almost 50% more credits, does that mean that it also resulted from 50% more jobs compared to previous results. Third, which is the interest of the HBOR in the March reorganisation to abolish the departments of agriculture and tourism that are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. Do you intend to work in HBOR programs for entrepreneurs who... and national and EU funds, especially here, because you do not have EU funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So an example of an entrepreneurial impulse that requires you from 50 to 80%, or they finance up to 50 or 80%, so often entrepreneurs don't have the other part, is that whether or not you plan through HBOR to enable credit programs through which they can realise their co-financing. And finally, is it true that HBOR intends to expand its business throughout the region, by opening district offices in neighbouring countries? If this is true, what is the HBOR's interest in rebuilding and developing to open offices in BiH, Serbia-Montenegro and who will pay the salaries of employees in other countries as well as all other costs necessary for their current business. So what interest does HBOR have in all this? And lastly, I'd like to give you just one piece of advice if you think you can, and you should respect it, which is that when an entrepreneur moves into infrastructure projects, then it's appreciated that he can enter into negotiations with HBOR at a time when he already has a request for construction, so that when he approves, he can bring you a building permit because we're wasting twice the time, he loses six months until he gets his license, and then he can only start talking to HBOR and lose another six months. And then we have a year in which most entrepreneurs give up their infrastructure project because they simply can't lose a year for their investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3574	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3575	Thank you very much. Your colleagues Ninčević said that only 10% means HBOR employees work on... i.e. that these are credit references that work in realisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you're from that real sector, that's what you're familiar with. I am personally interested because you worked on projects in underdeveloped areas, Sinj, Trilj, and even wider, I am interested in the possibility in these undeveloped areas of access to certain loans and what are the benefits or anomalies. And what is the advantage of the HBOR itself for restoration and development? Because it's obviously much easier for them to grant a 20m-euro giant loan to cranes that are on public good in smuggling than for an entrepreneur or farmer because you said obviously you no longer show desire by shutting down for agriculture.../The speaker is not understood./... where there is no more agriculture and tourism, they are obviously much more important in this case giant and obviously what they guaranteed are cranes. So whether the entire work of the HBOR is at all asked about this and particularly about undeveloped areas where people go to us, where this would be, the HBOR should be essentially a strategic partner over these areas, mainly over these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3576	Thank you, the distinguished representative Ninčević-Lesandric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3577	My colleague Bulj, I will only tell you statistics and this is that just from undeveloped areas when we talk about our county so Split-Dalmatia all the loans that have gone through my entrepreneurial... institutions went on an alternative loan, i.e. the Split-Dalmatia County loan, which was settled within a month with an interest rate of 1.5%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3578	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3579	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have now asked a question that is good, whether the HBOR has a product that is as it is done in the case of European funds just created so that people applying for tenders receive credit and that their participation is recognised by those grants they have requested and possibly in the future to receive them. It's a good program and I know that HBOR was very interested, and even the people of HBOR were asking who got, who didn't, so that they would immediately take these clients themselves because when they checked out in the European funds contest then they were basically good companies, but now they need to move on and I don't know if there's such a same tender for funds that go through our ministry and that are related to our funds means to small entrepreneurs. These were, for example, projects in tourism, in some production, 20, 30 million kuna and there HBOR relatively simply came to good customers with a certain great need for credit. But now we have 1,000 young people who are currently passing a competition at the Ministry of Economy and Small and Medium Entrepreneurship which may need the same for their participation certain funds. So maybe you should adjust and allow these small companies to get the same means if their participation is 15 or 25 or 50%, I don't know how much the conditions of the competition are now, although I always insist, people would prefer to get grants but it's always good when an entrepreneur invests and some of their money gives it to the seriousness of the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3580	Thank you. The distinguished representative Ninčević-Lesandric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3581	Comrade Maras, therefore.../The speakers speak at the same time./... very entrepreneurial impulse because these are the smaller assets that the entrepreneurs need to have this share for personal funding. And speaking of HBOR, it's unthinkable for me that a HAMAG BICRO for the financing of a 120,000 kuna loan where you have 72,000 purposes, 48 non-intentional or crafts, does not demand absolutely no guarantee or real estate while the HBOR asks for 100 thousand kunas literally to bring in all the relatives you have to get that loan. So there's also HBOR for beginners should change those terms a little bit, I think 100,000 kuna is for beginners nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3582	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3583	Dear Vice-President, respected representatives of the HBOR, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I would like to point out at the outset that this report sees progress in relation to last year's financial report by the HBOR for 2014 which has been discussed in this high house. Here I commend you, but now I would like to highlight the important further guidance for the work of the HBOR on which this report and work on the ground shows and we need to touch the problem a little bit. As I see HBOR, the HBOR sees as a stopper of the development of the Republic of Croatia and so let's say about 5 key guidelines based on the report, let them overlap so that I hope you accept them well. HBOR definitely needs to take a key position in fostering economic growth. This institution should be more involved in any changes that are taking place in the future and resulting from the Executive Authority's reform, especially in monitoring the allocation of funds or pre-financing, as most and colleagues have mentioned EU funding projects. Incentives that one sector in the economy is growing must be strengthened by a positive credit policy that will monitor the financing of companies in the sector with appropriate interest rates. It's also important that we have incentive measures, that there are no e.g. the payment of credit and the early closure of the loan. It's impossible, for example. that the executive authority determines the start of a rural development programme in which it wishes to encourage, for example, the implementation of a rural development programme. the processing of agricultural products without designing quality and really available within the short term of the lending programmes for these services by the HBOR. This means that the processing of a potential client must not exceed the deadlines that a client who has already passed the application and the allocation of EU funds means. Such treatment puts EU funds allocated by the government and institutions at risk on the ground. HBOR must monitor Croatia's development as it writes in its name. The HBOR on the ground must not be known for the three banks. Obviously, because of human capacities that have not yet reached the level of what HBOR is really needed on the ground, it is known as a bank that does not produce results in the resolution of loans. Those who tried to get into HBOR's credit arrangement so far were quick to give up because HBOR couldn't handle the cases in a few months. Here's a colleague mentioned specifically from 4 to 6 months these cases have been dealt with. HBOR is therefore already known for its trombones and in fact it would have to be an example of how to solve credits in the fast run even if they were negative. It's important that the items are resolved as soon as possible. HBOR must be a flexible, fast financial instrument to achieve the objectives of rapid growth and to respond to equally fast market movements. I therefore commend the positive shifts that are visible, but this impression of HBOR on the ground will require much work. In the future, the HBOR should be strongly attracted to entrepreneurs not only at interest rates, because the interest rates offered by HBOR in relation to other financial institutions are still less and almost the only incentive for entrepreneurs to ask HBOR for a loan but the interest rate of 4% is no longer as before in any case half the interest rates of the business bank and the HBOR is increasingly approaching those interest rates. And what will be the incentive at all to further the entrepreneur go to HBOR raised credit? This interest rate when it falls to 4% and from other business banks, HBOR will no longer be able to attract entrepreneurs. We already have cases for some green loans where they are offered means interest rates of 4%. Which means HBOR will then attract entrepreneurs and what are the advantages I will try to respond to this exposure, so I hope that we will have the opportunity to continue to discuss and classify it. As for collateral and guarantees for a small entrepreneur, it is equally a request for credit in the HBOR to a business bank or to a business bank itself. Namely, one institution needs a collateral from which an estimated 70% of the estimated value of the property can receive the value of the issued credit. This rule makes it impossible for a beginner or a small entrepreneur to access someone else's initial capital so that he can start or increase his entrepreneurial activity. What remains and to seek guarantees, guarantees and in this part requires a rapid reaction and cooperation between the institutions responsible for the same. A strong incentive is needed to invest in a Croatian economy with a flexible energy team of people who will be able to grant favourable loans in record time to an entrepreneur who invests in the start or growth of the business activity and information process. So I'm stressing that the citizens on the ground are uninformed. As a result, the feeling of trombones is increasing even more. HBOR's website in the part of the lending programme has not changed significantly or been brought closer to its citizens' description. What I've been following for the last four years is that people give their opinions and more that the simple way of showing them data and programs on the pages is not good. To conclude and point out the key, the final goals of the HBOR are well set. Unfortunately, it's not always the same thing. I highlight the problem of the risk sharing model between business banks and HBOR, which I assess by a positive shift in this report. These shifts increased the motivation of business banks, which is good because previous models were seen to be inefficient. I believe that there should also be further criteria for punishing banks and models for ousting business banks from models that in the following examples I will indicate how they behave. Namely, the model is primarily designed for faster credit realization, that HBOR did not have enough human resources to quickly analyse potential clients and credit users. It is therefore imagined that business banks will handle loans for them, i.e. reduce the risk. In addition, the resources of a business bank would be exploited. What does it mean in practice? Some business banks have in practice analyzed clients. If the client is more creditworthy in this case, they offered one of their funding models. It is obvious that their net margin is much lower in the case of the payment of HBOR credit than in the case of the placing of a commercial loan directly from the parent banks. We mentioned the meaning of agriculture and trombones in the granting of loans. We must not allow business banks under quotes to have more faith in production and economy in the Republic of Croatia than HBOR because then what we serve. Here's an example from practice. The client tried to get a loan from HBOR, sent him to a business bank because of a faster realization. The business bank has analyzed the client for more than six months. It's about starting up a farm-based company. The client picked up two acres of nasada. Afterwards, he applied for funding to measure 101 of the IPARD programme. He passed, received a decision from the paying agency on the allocation of 65% of the investment, and presented his own funds to finance 35% of the investments. He offered supplies, more real value twice the amount requested. The stock of another company that has been operating for 6 years to answer that it is a high-risk farm and that they are not willing to lend it. It's a small farmer, and we assure the young that they have the means to recover. Are there really funds available to young farmers or young people in general? The client went to another business bank without asking HBOR's credit. He pawned everything he had, paid more than 80,000 kuna in the short term. The project was almost on the verge of realisation due to time constraints and lost time and what we said earlier when we tried to get HBOR's credit. Finally, the project was successfully realised and the loan was fully returned. Today, the company is working in synergy with the company guarantee, and employs 12 employees in the rural area of the municipality of Šejanovac, which kept 12 families from fleeing to the city. The earlier example refers to a pre-accession measure of rural development, and we now face the challenge of using a rural development programme that provides us with the total amount of the six-year pre-accession period in one year. I remind you that in six years we haven't used the funds available to us during the pre-accession period, and now we have a challenge to use that amount of funds in a year. And to conclude, it is positive to increase the motivation of business banks because previous models have been shown to be inefficient. But it is crucial to set the criteria for punishing banks of business and bank models from that model unless they are held and met with the objective given to them. HBOR's work must be fast, efficient. HBOR must have models and a system of work that will make it known that we believe in our production, young beginners and small ones. If the HBOR doesn't do it, the business bank won't do it either. So I commend the positive shifts, and now we have to get into fifth gear.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3584	Thank you very much. It was on your first words that a distinguished representative of Gordan Maras came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3585	I'm glad Mr. Vice President that you're following my every move and watching me lift my line, whether it was the third, fourth or seventh word. So I'm honored with that. [[I've got to follow everything. It's my job.]] But I wanted to support my colleague Roscic on certain matters, and one of these is HBOR's relations with banks. So in the past of the 90s HBOR has been used quite often as a refuge for the risk of certain loans that are more risky than Croatian banks, so you mentioned the risk sharing program. It's a classic story of how our banks, not our banks, but the banks that are on the market, share the risk with HBOR, and that contributes to their greater profits. Let me give you an example. There were projects, I know a few of them that are 50, 100 million kunas and then they say we go half way. And 50 HBOR, 50 Business Bank. The business bank places its 50s with 6% interest, and the HBOR places it with 3.3 and a half percent interest. And finally, that end-users, when they add up everything together, cost no more than 6, but costs them four and a half to five percent, and it's a more cost-effective project and it can come back. But what's the catch? The business bank makes 6%. It is worth more to give so much 6% than to give 6% to the entire amount, so that the client cannot return. And that's where I absolutely agree with you. We need to see how to stimulate banks, how to use their channels, but not in a way that gives us the worst portfolio, and to maximize their profits and minimise the risk. That's unfortunately been HBOR quite often in the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3586	Thank you. The honourable representative Roscic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3587	Here I am glad that most of us here agree that we should limit banks, that is, when we allow them to analyze it means business banks, that it is not right for those entrepreneurs who can continue to develop and hire to burden their assets because they could expand their production over a very short period of time anyway. So it's important that we prevent these models from being turned off by such banks that take advantage of what the HBOR has been given to them to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3588	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3589	You asked your respected HDZ MPs how it was that some who had a double mortgage from the amount of credit with a good business plan couldn't get a loan, but listening to your question made me feel like you didn't listen to my speech when I explained that someone with six consecutive mortgages managed to get through HBOR seventh credit at the time, so HBOR approved it right at the time of the HDZ government means EPH Holding, which means we're going to pretend that we don't know what key a credit that won't come back, and someone who's here in your case that you instructed and widely explained who is actually even creditworthy. There. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3590	Thank you. The honourable representative Roscic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3591	Here's my colleague, Pernar, when he was exhibiting, he said the age of SDP, and now he says the HDZ era, so I'm afraid he's not listening to me very well, and I listened to him very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3592	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3593	My colleagues, HBOR should primarily be the one in our area where you and I come from to encourage survival as well as in Slavonia people mainly farmers and other businessmen. However, the fact is that by 2005, we have a number of loans that are not realised at all but reprogrammed in terms of reality. So we have 277 loans approved in HBOR, 275 are reprogrammed. There was enough unprepared documentation essentially enough political resemblance or after I mentioned it, enough that one of the prime minister's girlfriends to get a loan, that was a good argument, which means that our farmers are under the impression that they are afraid of the EU to meet the standards invested. Until then, they were good milk producers that they had to invest, were forced into their farms, herds, increases in the number of throats and eventually experienced a drop in milk, eventually the money was shared not by the OPGs but by tycoons and envisaged for the EU. So HBOR has amazingly once thrown out investment in agriculture, which is also in March this year, which is an indication that HBOR mainly in our areas absolutely does not mean anything, absolutely under the same conditions as the farmers and farmers from these undeveloped areas as some kind of political likeness or family friends, and this will be visible only to publish the register of all those who have received HBOR credits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3594	Thank you. The honourable representative Roscic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3595	Here I thank my colleague Bulju, but I would like to look here at that and if we remove that political influence, the question is whether the HBOR has the expertise and ability of this dynamic to meet the challenges ahead of us. Because okay. In the pre-accession period, we had little resources, so we can say that I can't say that I don't know that period, and I didn't follow it then, I only followed those I worked with who didn't get some funds through HBOR, but through a business bank. So maybe there was a possibility that the smaller amounts of funds were allocated to uncles and I don't know who, but I don't think there are that many now. We are facing a really large amount of financial resources, and I said that during the pre-accession period, we were unable to use the funds whose six-year amount corresponds to what we must give quality in a year. So the question is, if we remove that political influence, do we have an institution that can answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3596	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3597	Thank you, Chairman. So here's the story of HBOR's story is about loans and on the one hand it's paradoxical that it's the state that gives credit even though it's not able to repay them. It is paradoxical for the state to take over the role of lending, while itself in debt. And then what happens? The money goes the way it goes, we've seen in many cases going unintended. And I'm just going to name a few examples of that kind of spending money. One of them is the company, here we read on the internet HBOR gave credit to Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's brother-in-law two months after he came to power of nearly two million kunas. The company was already in losses, allegedly for a car wash in the Sesvets. The question is if this loan has ever been returned, I'd like to hear from the HBOR gentlemen whether the loan is returned. The second question refers to a fascinating story related to the Treeplast from Petrinja. I'm convinced that HBOR gentlemen know her, it's a $20 million loan to the company in the blockade. Of that loan, no kuna was returned, production was never launched and the man who launched the loan took 28 million kuna and went to us in the Middle East to Serbia or Bosnia wherever it was already. And now every time such a situation arises, it comes from the assumption that this man is guilty. But it just sounds amazing to me that it's possible for someone to suck 28 million kunas out of the state institution in beautiful eyes. Because as I had the opportunity to see in the case of Mrs. HDZ's speech, she said that many who have the conditions for getting credit can hardly get them. But the most painful thing to say is that, on one hand, a certain individual like that. The giant of the Fat Lords gets a loan from HBOR because there's no money and then with the same money he got from HBOR credits the HDZ. Is it logical for you ladies and gentlemen that the HBOR, which is under management, I don't know how to tell HDZ or "steal" but here's what we're going to tell HDZ, gets, i.e. that credit to the man who then finances back HDZ? Is this, in your opinion, a conflict of interest, and has anyone in the HBOR responded because of this conflict of interest? I am deeply convinced that it is not and the practice of our country is such that the more people owe them, the bigger they are, the bigger their social position, the bigger their property. And in the end, they're more untouchable. And that reminds me of a saying from Texas, it says, "If you're gonna go brooke, go pine big," so if you're going to go bankrupt, go broke with style. And we see that in a similar way that HDZ shares loans that actually leads the state itself and then asks us to support the work report and it is clear from the plane that the work of the HBOR is bad and that it is not satisfactory for a simple reason and these are economic indicators. We see that employment is falling, that kuna liquidity is falling, that the number of blocked citizens is increasing and blocked businesses, their number is only being reduced fictitiously, meaning by erasing from the register. And this policy of severe indifference has been seen in our country since the introduction of the kuna as a means of payment. I'm curious when the HDZ gentlemen are planning to take on the way the Florida crew... If I'm not mistaken, "Houston we have a problem," and the problem is called the Central Bank's role, so CNB, that's problem no. 1. A problem No. 2 is, I would call it a party lending of similars where debt never goes to an individual but always to a firm and always that firm that receives these loans, always she usually doesn't pay them back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the individual who raised them doesn't guarantee his personal property. So when Ninoslav Pavić got a loan for his EPH Holding which he didn't pay back, that same Ninoslav Pavić, believe it or not, the ladies and gentlemen account for it was never completed. And at the same time, HDZ's government was ruthlessly counting on the smallest debtors, the craftsmen whose long crafts actually nominated as their private debt. I remember my experience with the tax administration and the garage I had, and it was actually a debt to that garage, and then they asked me in the IRS if you'd pay for that long day or tomorrow. I ask why you ask ah says, interest. Well, tomorrow's not the same amount. And we have a situation where the state literally cameras, literally interest rates citizens, terrorises people through the tax administration of petty debts. I remember Mr. Linic, that same farce was great, he said that every kuna extra is punished and at the same time we see the big fish remain intact. And ladies and gentlemen, we have to ask ourselves today did we move one step forward without this being on our way to a break-in? Looking at the announced, i.e. Looking at HDZ's credit monetary policy, which is essentially about pumping external debt and selling out state assets and now by introducing real estate taxes, I can't wonder if it's possible that everything they're doing was legal. Someone's gonna say yes, someone's gonna say no. I think it's a mixture of which HDZ members are at least responsible, the most responsible are voters who support them in the elections and who actually cement not the future but the failure of themselves, their families and their own children. It is sad to observe when I walk the streets of Zagreb to people who dig through garbage. It is sad to observe, or read in the newspaper, how people argue over a bottle in a container. So you've managed to get people into a state of distress where they're fighting about 50 lips. While they're arguing about 50 lips this gentleman who had a wood layer took 28 million kuna and ciao rugazza, bye boys. And that's, that's one sad picture of our reality. You told us about the savings and reforms, we saw how Mr. Oreshkovic, whom you depicted as a great savings and we saw at the end of the escape of people from our country who leave each day. Ladies and gentlemen, what is HBOR, what has HDZ and his government done to stop this epidemic of poverty? We're not talking about any relative poverty here. We're talking about absolute and extreme poverty. The only thing we have a chance to see from your policy is a huge social gap and a division of a few families, whether they're 200 or 300 or 400, which is less important, what's important is that there are millions of people on the other side of that gap who write to us every day that they don't have electricity, that they dig up their water. And at the end of the day and this morning, we were in debacle even though you promised before the election that there would be no more dejection. Ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, I don't know who's out of the way here anymore, you or your constituents. Because looking at those voters who keep choosing you after every election, even though they see what kind of crime is going on everywhere, and even in HBOR, I wonder if maybe I'm in the wrong country and what I'm actually doing here and who I'm trying to explain this to in the first place when people after what HDZ did to our country are telling us it's important to steal us from our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3598	Thank you very much. He had a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3599	Thank you, Vice President. I am pleased that my colleague Pernar mentioned this loan from former Prime Minister Milanovic's brother-in-law, so I will only relate to the case because it is unthinkable that the company that was founded or exists for less than a year will receive a $1.9 million loan through HBOR. And secondly, this same company ended up with a loss of 33,000 kuna in the same year, which is even ok for one beginner's company. The problem is what is next 3 years that same company was lost and even the loss could be considered if we take a break in point and that period of 3 to 5 years that it takes to keep the company rate, but the problem in this case is that the company had a loss of 33, so 100 and 900 thousand kuna, which I'm sure bounces from the proposed business plan that has to be delivered to HBOR in order to even be granted credit. Because I'm sure no one is suggesting in their business plan a loss that is increasing in that amount. So, how is that even possible, is and who controls it so that the loss from 30 thousand kuna comes to 900? So we're talking about an activity that if it can't reduce its loss in 3 years, it obviously can't even survive on the market. What happens in cases like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3600	Yeah, first of all, you weren't up, but I'll let you talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3601	Well, that's understandable.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3602	And then you're welcome to speak now that I give you my word. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3603	I apologize for speaking without saying a word. So that the MOST lady raised an interesting question that could answer the question why the DORH does not process people who gave loans to similar people because it would be logical to replace HDZ crime authorities. But we see that despite the shift of power, not only is crime not sanctioned but it only continues under a different name. And that's what stabs into the eyes and actually offends the citizens of our country. And this is when I call on my SDP colleagues to be brave to deal with corruption in the HDZ ranks because, but also in their own ranks because if they do not, the people will ignore them. It's not as naive as people are, as many people believe in lies again at the end of the day people wake up, regain consciousness and soberness. And you could be welcomed by an electoral debacle, and not by the guilt of the HDZ, but by your own guilt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3604	Thank you very much. You opened our eyes a little bit, I didn't know that Mr. Milanovic was a member of the HDZ but I guess he was, but good. Now, a distinguished representative, Ivica Misic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3605	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Pernar, in your presentations, I've taken some things very seriously, but I don't understand one thing from all of this. HBOR has the money, it lends the same money to other banks and these other banks, under some interest, give it to our businesses and citizens, and why the Croatian Bank does not directly give it to some businessmen, craftsmen, farmers not to earn other banks and that they have no interest, that we get cheaper credit. Come on, if we give it to other banks, why don't we give it to our banks to Postanska Banka, the fina you see here is in charge? Let them work, have all the infrastructure complete they have. You mentioned Nina Pavic who won one property 7 times 11 billion kuna, a million kuna pardon. What happened, nothing. I don't know the HDZ gave it, the SDP gentlemen paid it off. She didn't ask a question, so I'm asking a question because you're an opposition or are you doing the same thing? Our citizens only know that they've been expended and stolen, and we've simply come to this situation as we have. Mr. Maras talks every day, it's nice to listen to you, so where the others are, I guess you're covering them, they don't have benches, so you're the victim who needs to talk all the time to cover your left there, actually SDP's government. So you didn't comment on that same loan that was paid to a man who never returned in your time, Nina Pavic, 11 billion, actually your party. And such loans, so much so that they just came to citizens, the state got in trouble, and we're all in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3606	Thank you very much. Although she was not actually sent to counterpart Pernar, he will report for reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3607	So that distinguished fellow Misic has raised the EPH holding issue and it turns out that the organisation that poisons Croatian people systematically and continuously for 20 years has been campaigning for defamation, lies and insults that the media organisation once EPH and now the Hanza media is still burning and burning not only on the media scene but also on the political scene. It is disgusting to see the presses of Mason Marijan Hanžekovic call representatives in the Croatian Parliament and attack them not because they have sinned against crime but only because they have stepped on the tail of their boss who has become rich through the spine of the poorest. Unfortunately, judging from what once happened to the EPH today, the Hanza media was once Ninoslav Pavić today, Marijan Hanžekovic. I hope those responsible who gave that loan to HBOR, but I'm actually lying to you gentlemen, I know they'll never be punished. I know they won't, because you're protecting them and you've protected them all these years and you'll protect them all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3608	It's the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3609	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, in this report for 2015 you called one side, the other you didn't. What do you think the tops of banks, the tops of criminal organizations even have a world view of either social democratic or democratic? They don't. They have an ideology at the moment when they throw fog at victims, even share the people before the elections while robbing Croatian people. While hanging, located and transferred true heroes of the Homeland War at that time were issued national interest, while warrants and awards were being written for Croatian generals who after closing, transfer, persecution proved their innocence they were being persecuted and then traded national interests and then loans were being shared. That's why when you call HDZ what you think to the tops during the SDP government, let's say the DIV came to the square in 2013. You know who was in power? You said he financed the campaign? I don't know, HDZ. Who was in charge of the thirteenth? SDP. Do you know that the loans of the brother-in-laws absolutely remember the honor of true SDPs, HDZ people's voters, or the peaks of the octopus of the corrupt are absolutely not interested in the HDZ, nor the SDP, nor the social democracy, nor the democracy that is on the foreheads of having a good time. So it's code, when I see you're targeting one, but there's no difference. The criminal was in red or blue or white, or in anger. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3610	Thank you. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3611	Mr. Bull, thank you for this observation. I'd like to contort you, I'd like to disagree with you, but unfortunately I can only fold my shoulders and say that you've told the record truth, the truth that most of our country's citizens don't just know but also feel on their skin and yet backs those same parties out of fear that the other one will not come to power. Why do they do it, and how long will they do it, and why do they suffer themselves, and torture it for me? My sincere desire is for our people to wake up and break out of this hypnosis and brainwashing which unfortunately are the most guilty mass media, the same media that attack you both from MOST and us from the Living Wall while raising political parties HDZ and SDP by giving them an enormous media space, and only with the aim of dividing prey rather than because they care about the truth or freedom of journalism as Mason Marijan Hanžekovic told them this Sunday on Sunday at 2nd. It's sad that these are the people who teach our public lessons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3612	Thank you. And now again, on behalf of the club, the closing word will have the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3613	Mr. Rainer, I'm giving up my closing speech and thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3614	Oh, good. There he is. Thank you very much. The final word will now be given by the president of the HBOR administration, the esteemed Dusan Tomaševic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3615	Well, I have to admit, after eight hours of this kind of debate, I'm a little sad, let me be a little bit emotional, not like Mr. Pernar. He's quite this special in his presentation. In fact, I've been here for almost a year and a half more maybe, and I haven't gotten the impression of HBOR as you see it in any operational sense or any of these problems that my colleague was having. When you watch how many of these credits we've given, how many people do, our people work a lot, a dozen hours, people work. So of the 342 employees we have 80 employees participating in a direct credit operation through, so your entire system works through 8 sectors and 8 directorates. When some credit request, here I'll just give myself some freedom and tell you to enter our house in one way that is prescribed by our programs that are by the way everyone on our site. 31 The current program is on our site with all elements, all perfomanses, deadlines, interest rates, users, everything, all elements have with their documentation. Now, open up the site you want for HBOR, and you'll find some program. Although it's a bit of a demode site I have to admit, we're going to change it around 21.11. We've been working on it for eight months and we're going to change it and it's going to be more accessible to our users. We've also opened a call center these days. So no more wandering to the front desk, so the reception doesn't know who they're gonna connect to, etc. We're working on it. But when you talk about trombones, I wouldn't say we're trombones. So the average resolution of our loan is 30 days. Where there's a problem there's been that long, because there's a problem. So someone wants a loan, and there's no conditions. And then we all struggle together and time and time goes by. And then in the end, after six months or nine months, you have to turn him down. This isn't demagogue for you. This is really true for you. But here's what I had to say in that operational sense because it was a lot of operational character, we're going to get a phonogram from this session and all of you respected MPs answer in person. So all the questions you asked, colleague Misic, my dear professor, whoever asked the question that I don't leave out will get the address of the answers to the questions. Now just a few of these so I don't take up your time, just for the sake of order. The HBOR Act itself is defined as implementing its activities directly and indirectly, through banks and other legal entities. It's the law, there's no moving. Change the law and we'll do different. The HBOR as a development bank should not or should be a competition for business banks but in cooperation with them encourages the development of the economy, according to the law. Using business banks and leasing companies as distribution channels enables HBOR to operate at lower operating costs. Just because we don't have businesses, we don't have businesses, we have five representative offices with one man each. Now we're doing something about it, and I'm going to refer to the question someone has asked before, is it wise for us to open some vanca representations, where what in Serbia doesn't, we're going to open up within our Republic of Croatia another five representations and hire another two people because we want to be closer to the client, we want to be closer to the region, the city, etc. And as for the place in neighbouring countries, it was your intensity, in fact, there was a day of Bishop Komarica with us and he asked if we could do anything today for the Banja Luka area. Then we looked into it and we said ok, let's open up a representation there, let's get closer to the Republic of Banja Luka, to our enclave in one way. So that was Bishop Komarica's initiative. Furthermore, further this kind of business allows lower levels of risk as HBOR takes the risk of a business bank in such cases. By reducing the interest rates that HBOR has been carrying out since 2012 it has been indirectly affecting the reduction of the interest rates of business banks. So we were definitely acting pro-pulsively here. We should be aware of the fact that when we implement some programs through business banks, entrepreneurs insist on getting our terms. So if we give directly two or three percent and the banks have to give two and three percent, I can't give six. If they're working on our programs, I can't give them six. And on the other hand, business banks are in the interest of keeping their clients because they live off the fees and keeping clients' accounts, which is quite logical. During almost 25 years, the Republic of Croatia has paid €6.5 billion to HBOR’s core capital, and the current value of the total capital is €9.66 billion, which we have increased capital by 35% through the retained profit, which is again reinvested. That capital doesn't lie. The HBOR shall finance its credit activities from the debt, repayment of loans and payments to capital. Indebted someone returns money and capital payments, I mean quite logically. With its business, the bank generates enough revenue to cover all expenditures and costs arising from the business, this is in these reports that we gave you on the table. The bank supplies funds at an average rate of 1.13, please, 1.13. I'm telling you or we've sent you a fat report, I mean one hundred pages of Irene's, and one short report. So in the last six years, the main sources of funding have been specific financial institutions and, above all, the EIB. The possibility of borrowing HBOR on the market is limited by rating, and the HBOR in making borrowing decisions takes a very good look at the price of the debt, and that is why we are not going to the capital market for the last few years, but we are relying on the EIB. The HBOR is obliged to hold a certain liquidity reserve due to its large credit activity and long-term use of funds. Liquid assets in short-term placements leading to a contribution account that can be made to them. Currently, these are the vault records and bonds of the Republic of Croatia because the interest rates on short-term payments to banks and deposits are extremely low. There was some question about the board members, so... The committee is prescribed by law. [[/The speaker reads fast, he doesn't understand.]] Members do not receive compensation. And the number of KFW members is 37, our 10, there were 9, the law was changed in 2013, so instead of 9 now 10.g., limited lending of business entities owned by officials and family members has been introduced since 2013. So in 2013, a certain obstacle for officials is introduced. In 2013, HBOR does not credit the media. All of these are listed etc. HBOR provides for the possibility of public publication of the data, but in the case of commercial banks, this is not done because the commercial banks are subject to the provisions of the Financial Institutions Act to keep the banking secret. So as far as we're concerned, anything you're interested in, and what we've done directly, you can get. Someone mentioned the State Audit Office, I also said in the opening statement that in 25 years the State Office was 15 times. So malt not every other year, if not more, means 15 times. Last time was 2014. The obligation of the external audit of the financial operations of the HBOR shall comply with the Accounting Act and with the provisions of European regulations, in particular those relating to the issuer of securities. Since the draft HBOR, all the auditor reports have been positive, audited reports are submitted to the audit committee, which is composed of largely external members. So by the way, by the way, by the way HBOR has you 6 committees, of which two by the bank law are mandatory, one is a credit committee and the other is audit board. The credit committee shall be composed of internal members, sector directors and some experts and shall be audited by external members. The audit committee shall establish and appoint a supervisory board. So we're responding to the Supervisory Board, the Government and the Parliament. Also HBOR passes the examination procedure every year by two rating agencies, Moody's and Standard & Poor's to determine the rating. According to the credit lines of the last international financial institutions, the use of funds as provided for in the contractual provisions is also subject to control. So the EIB doesn't come out of our house, it's constantly controlling the loans he invested money in, permanently, right now we've had it for these loans up to 25 grand, up to 25 grand euros. As for HBOR's very action in the crisis, it is precisely the role of the development bank to run a conservative lending policy in good times, good times, meaning 4.5.6% of GDP is a question or when we will get there and in times of crisis takes greater risks. What would happen to the Croatian economy if the HBOR had not done so during the crisis? I wouldn't link it to the HBOR clearing the portfolio of business banks. And I'm one more thing, so as far as operational matters are concerned, I'm going to ask my colleagues who they are, the MPs who asked us to answer their address. At the same time, someone asked me last time in February, so we also answered in writing. And we've invited everyone in, and today we invite you, come to our bank, come to our institution, see how we live there. Come and let us present to you what and how we do, what problems we have in respect of all of what you've said, we definitely need to change and we need to be better, it's absolutely not controversial. However, you know, in crisis situations, a revolution is needed, and here, evolution is needed, my dear professor. You've said it many times, I remember. HBOR gave 52,000 967 loans from its draft, 52,000. You have here in today's exhibition presented 3, 4 who may have, perhaps by you, been equative, perhaps, a lot of bitterness because someone failed to resolve their ambition. If we happen to be guilty of this, here I am inviting you, feel free to refer this client to me. So this year and a half, we've been running absolute politics to meet our client. Someone used to talk about some elements, I recognized in it one client, I won't name it now, but the medal always has two sides. Come and guide him to us, guide him to me, here, I guess he won't be touching me for another two months, and I'll handle it all, go ahead. So 52,000 976, of which, that's 146,848 billion,billion. You're talking today and we're talking about 2 billion that aren't charged. Normally it's huge money, when we take it out of context, it's a terrible money. But when you know that in 25 years, you've given up so many billions and that this has come to you through time. So the problems that exist here now, let's say in these two years when I am, you know when they're going to reflect, if you do, you're going to be discussing at your Parliament's last year because then their time is going to come because the beginnings are two to three, four years, and then the client still doesn't make it work, so he takes the reprogramme, and then it extends to you for eight years. We have the biggest problems since '06, '07, that's how it was, but that doesn't mean we don't care. We have a lot of problems with the programs from those rural development loans. Why? Because these clients couldn't survive on the market. Now, that's where I see the problem, if you'll allow from my humble experience, otherwise I've been a manager for 25 years and I've never worked at a state-owned company, I've worked exclusively in private companies, and I run exclusively private companies and not small companies. So we're giving credit, he's got a start of two years, and in that beginning, things change on the market. Someone was talking about the price of milk, someone was talking about the price of meat, someone was talking about some other market conditions. And he suddenly in a physical situation that he had when that loan was approved comes into an impossible situation. And then what does HBOR do? He's applying for a reprogramme, we let him do the reprogramme. What about the man, the man has a house and a farm home. He pawned his own house and pawned the farm. I mean, we can't take it as such because there's a rule about collateral, there's a business procedure, maybe we need to change them, okay, maybe but they're in effect now. But we'll respect everything you said and we'll send it to you. And what happens to the man? Instead of taking care of the state in the context of the third year. When does he need the most money? In the third year, but he can't give that bank, the bank doesn't grant grants, he doesn't give. You change if you want to, so you'll give it away at all is not at all controversial. And then one reprogramme, the market changed, and he says after eight years, I have nowhere to go. It's been eight years. At the time HBOR doesn't charge him interest, he keeps him at the stand by, he tends to know if he puts him in bankruptcy that a whole family will leave, that all those people who work there will go. And then that's how we tend it, and then there comes a time when we can't care anymore. There are many of them now, but it's all in the past and what's going on right now, what's actually going on here is just shutting down. So from the total portfolio, I just got a colleague from Pernar, but now he's gone, 87% is 100% chargeable, so 87. 10% is part that is so-called. B situation, and 2% is non-refundable. So when you look at it, it's an exceptional situation in relation to business banks, so let's just keep it that way. Here, my dear MPs, forgive me for a little emotion. It was very useful everything you said, believe me. And you who spoke in an operational sense and you who spoke in a strategic sense. We've recorded it all, and I'm going to answer those questions nicely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3616	Thank you very much. What is particularly important is that you have now said that you will personally answer the questions of individual MPs, or MPs, who have raised very specific questions. So we hope they get concrete answers. But we still have three replicas, had three replicas. She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3617	Although you did not answer our questions, you said you would answer them personally, although this is not a personal matter. I'd like some, you said we'd come see how you guys were doing and I'd like to talk about management contracts. So when's 2014. Kovachev left the head of HBOR on the basis of the contract paid him a net severance of nearly 350,000 kuna and the severance of the old HBOR administration cost him 3.4 million kuna. Kovacev was succeeded by Mr. Vladimir Christian, who held that position for about 9 months, who received a severance payment of just over 300 thousand kuna. If an example of you, Mr. Tomašević, is called off before the end of the term of office you are appointed to, you are guaranteed a manager's contract and a 12-month severance payment and the amount of your salary is about 40,403 gross, the severance of 12 net salaries in the event of recall is guaranteed to the members of the administration. It seems to me that the HBOR is now on this example but I'm only talking about HBOR now, but so are the other companies and companies where the state is owned and not just in banks, in HBOR, so it looks like HBOR, which is now for example. The managers of the past years total cost almost 5 million kunas soon must raise money for new severances because any of you to get the foundation of the Board's decision that you haven't done well waits for you means 12 months' wages, you and management and the salary I said how much is. That means half a million kuna minimum. Thank you very much. So much as it's inside the HBOR.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3618	Thank you. The esteemed president of the HBOR administration will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3619	You're right, you're absolutely right. So sometimes the manager's contract could get him out of here to get severance, and now you can't work. And as you saw from the report, regardless of the political connotation, it worked very well, never better. But regardless, the manager's contract is a manager's contract. I worked on the manager's contract for 25 years. Look at my résumé, and you'll see which companies I've run and where I've worked. This is work from 0 to 0, I don't have time or ask to have it. But look, you can change everything, but you were right here.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3620	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3621	Dear Mr. Tomasevic, I took a look at your biography. You're a man with a lot of experience in the real sector, but I didn't notice that you were in the financial industry. They're hired except for something in FINA if I speak correctly. Why, therefore, I don't expect you to change the HBOR strategy, I don't know, actually, you came after this shift a year, a year and a half ago in what circumstances, and you are expected, no one expects that, no one expected you to make a revolution overnight. But your job is to look at what was before and what was right, at least right before you. There's nothing in your reports. There's nothing about it. There's no use, thank you for calling for coffee that we're coming but we're not commercialists to negotiate there, but what in your explanation here, they perform as a man of great experience somehow pairing ears that you haven't listed anything that's got anything that just so let's say bad sounds like the institution you represent. We're not here to attack, we're not sitting here to attack HBOR, we're MPs elected, and we're in charge of the citizens to take care of this public good like HBOR. So please worry, and instead of calling us, send us a list, not on your website, there's a lot of stuff, but send us information about what we're interested in. So a list of all loans that are granted and not charged, under which terms are approved, at which interest rates and why, and you say watch out for one statement you gave which is very bad that two billion kunas of unpaid loans and not so much compared to everything you've done like HBOR in the past years. And I wouldn't dare give such a statement, but since you're an experienced man in business practice then you have certain skills, but they can't leave the impression that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3622	Thank you. The Honorable President of the HBOR Administration will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3623	As for the esteemed representative, as far as my experience in the financial sector is concerned, when you look at my biography, then you'll see that I've been a member of the Financial Office for two years. And when you go back a little bit, then you'll see that I've been the financial director for three years, and I was chief of the economic and financial sector before that. All the rest of this is normal for me to be president of the administration of some of the companies I worked in. When I was talking about two billion, I said it was a large amount, of course it was a large amount. But when you put it in context, in that context, I thought, when you put it in context for 25 years, normally it's always a big amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3624	And the last replica of the distinguished representative of Anne-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3625	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's the esteemed Mr. Tomašević, here's the debate today about the HBOR report, and I honestly didn't think about it, I didn't comment on it in an individual debate, or on behalf of the club on your report, because here's most of our comments whether it's your report. Somewhere before, we discussed the CNB. Whether the report is adopted or not, nothing is going on unfortunately, so here I am slowly losing my will. But still, in your last address here, you offered me that I had to replicate it for you. Don't be angry about it, and you've offered me for your indifference to this all that's been discussed here today. You've also commented on what the HBOR's duty is under the law, you've read us what the HBOR is doing under the law. Just indifferently say change the law and we'll do different. If we need to change the law here in the Parliament so you can do things differently. The same way you said we had to change, but that's how we are. You also said it was necessary to change the procedure, but it's simply the way it is today. You simply accept a situation like this, and you as president of the administration shouldn't. Also, you told the MPs you'd give them answers to questions, you'd send them individually. We all here and who haven't asked questions ask you to make your point about what you've been discussing, or what's been discussed here in the Croatian Parliament, and we would just like you, as chairman of the administration, to put a little bit of different work, more liveliness into HBOR, to make suggestions yourself to help our economy, how to help our entrepreneurs. how to help our farmers. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Here's just a few more seconds. And as for these representations, which specifically asked me to answer. The same way you said let's give, bring Croatia closer to Banja Luka, a I'm here now, please let's get close to HBOR Virovitica-Podravina County, let's get close to Orahovica... [[Thank you very much.]] and representations both in our county and in our cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3626	Thank you, colleagues. You could've called for an individual debate, and this doesn't serve to exceed the amount of time. Here you go. The President-in-Office of HBOR.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3627	Well, I can be a respected colleague, so you definitely saw me in another light. I'm also a very energetic person and I'm not, I'm not calming down with what it is. What I said about de facto law being done like that is actually a fact. I'm not saying we're not working on it, I'm not saying we're not proposing. We are extremely involved in all the ministries and some ministers who are here now can say that. So ours are absolutely initiatives, but I didn't think we had to brag about it that way. I thought I should do this report that's what it is, no matter what it calls for a certain change of strategy. That's definitely it. But we have to respect the facts. Who would be happier than me if we had money, to place 5,000 items a year. There's no potential. We need to look into the facts in our eyes. You're saying... That's right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not at all controversial, but the potential of the one we have to de facto create in one way and provide him with a framework for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3628	Thank you very much. We'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3629	The next item is the Annual Financial Report of the HBOR for 2015. The carrier is HBOR. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next decision to confirm the annual financial reports of the HBOR for renewal and development for 2015.’. Please engage, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 112, 10 are against the decision to confirm that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3630	And now we'd like to discuss the united two next points. So, - Final bill amending the Law on the State Administration System, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 14th and - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 13. Both acts shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, go ahead. Dear Zarko Katic, Deputy Minister of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3631	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. By proposing a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Designation and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to re-establish the Croatian Assembly, as well as to amend and supplement the work of the individual central authorities of the state administration necessary to ensure legal assumptions for the effective functioning of the state administration. The final bill proposes reshaping the Central State Office for the Management of State Property into the ministry, and proposes the establishment of a state property ministry. Good and quality management of state assets is one of the important assumptions for Croatia's economic growth and a prerequisite for filling the revenue side of the state budget. In the past 25 years, Croatia has had different institutions, i.e. different models of state property management. In that period, a total of ten different models, i.e. ten institutions, whether agencies, funds, state offices or ministries that managed state assets, changed. Stronger and more coherent management of state assets can help address a series of problems with unused state property and place it in the function of this property in order to make it productive and useful for the state budget, but also a stopper for the launch of economic activities especially in tourism, agriculture and other activities. The transformation of the State Central State Office for State Property Management into the Ministry will allow the establishment of an adequate management structure necessary for the effective operation of operations relating to the management and availability of state assets. The activities in the field of mining and mining inspection are not laid down in the applicable law in any of the central authorities of the state administration, and the proposal for a law proposes to establish, within the scope of the Ministry of Economy, the conduct of mining and inspection operations in the field of mining, other than the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and geothermal waters for energy purposes, and in the area of the Ministry of Energy, it is proposed to establish the conduct of inspection tasks in the field of research and exploitation of hydrocarbons and geothermal waters for energy purposes. In addition, it is proposed to amend the name of the Ministry of Economy, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and crafts to the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, and it is proposed to delete business operations in relation to the State Property Management Strategy from the ministry, as I have said for a little while in part in the work of the Ministry of State Property. It is also proposed to carry out tasks related to the application and application of intellectual and industrial property rights, so to delete them because they are placed in the department of the State Intellectual Property Institute. In the area of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, it is proposed to coordinate its work with specific laws adopted in the meantime, such as the Law on Wires for the Transport of Persons and the Law on Combined Transport, as well as the new legal property of the EU in the field of radio equipment, and it is also specified that the Ministry does so in matters relating to strategic infrastructure projects and investment programmes and in the fields of electronic communications and postal services. Similarly, it is proposed to delete from the section of that ministry the conduct of administrative and other operations relating to national information infrastructure as these transactions are placed in the jurisdiction of another body or body responsible for e-Croatian affairs. In the section of the Ministry of Health, it is proposed to establish the conduct of administrative and other activities relating to the establishment of companies to carry out health activities, that is to comply with the Health Protection Act. The Commission shall, in accordance with the European Parliament and the Council’s directives, determine the implementation of administrative and other matters relating to tourism health services, and shall then specify the conduct of inspections in the field of medicinal products, medical products and biomedicines in order to comply with the requirements of the European Commission. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognises health tourism as a promising and important segment of economic development and is involved in development strategic documents as an interdisciplinary area of the National Health Development Strategy between 2012 and 2020. Similarly, the strategy for development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia by 2020 puts a strong emphasis on the development of health tourism. The work of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs shall specify the tasks relating to the conclusion and execution of international contracts. Therefore, the incentive to launch the procedure for the conclusion of international contracts is given by the national authorities each in their own area or part of the circle, and the execution of international contracts by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the competent authorities of the state administration from which the individual international contract is part, and so far the establishment by which the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs performs the tasks relating to the preparation, conclusion, execution of international contracts is therefore too broadly prescribed. It is proposed to delete from the Ministry of Justice the conduct of matters relating to the representation of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, since those cases are carried out by the Office of the Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is proposed to delete and carry out tasks relating to the training and training of judges, state lawyers and court workers, state attorneys and authorities responsible for the conduct of the infringement procedure, as those transactions under the Law on the Judicial Academy have been placed in its work. From the Department of Administration's section, it is proposed to delete operations for the International Commission for Civil Status, since the Republic of Croatia has stepped down from the membership of the International Civil Status Commission in early 2015 in accordance with the prescribed procedure. The work of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy is proposed to be complemented and it is determined that, apart from the work of the social care institutions, the Ministry also manages the units of local self-government, public administration offices, chambers, then the permanent collection of humanitarian aid, humanitarian actions and other legal and physical persons providing social services as well as the activities of the nanny. The work of the State Institute for Intellectual Property is proposed to be complemented in order to align with the changes made to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to international agreements relevant for the area of industrial and intellectual property and the development of a national and international system of intellectual property protection. Finally, it is also proposed to amend the departments of the National Statistics Institute in order to coordinate with the changes made to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and to make it more clear that the department of the State Statistics Office is more clearly defined as regards its coordination role within the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia and as a representative of the system of official statistics before the international institutions and bodies of the EU. So much for the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law on the formation and detachment of the ministries. And as you said, here is a short word on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration. This law, which was passed in the term of this assembly, calls on the state administration system to be partially modified. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been transformed into central state offices and instead of the current head of state offices, the duty of state secretaries, central state offices has been introduced. Those amendments and additions to the Law, instead of the Deputy Ministers, have introduced the duty of State Secretarys and it is also prescribed that the Deputy Ministers continue to exercise their duties and exercise their rights in accordance with the rules in force so far until the appointment of State Secretarys in accordance with the provisions of the new law. However, these amendments and additions to the Law did not lay down the powers of the Heads of State until the appointment of State Secretary of State of State of State offices, i.e. the issue of managing central state offices until the appointment of State Secretarys to resolve this legal gap and ensure continuity in the work and functioning of the State Administration at the level of central government offices, the bill proposes to establish that the Heads of State's offices will temporarily and until the appointment of State Secretary, central state offices will act as State Secretary, central state offices. I thank you for your patience and we stand at your disposal for your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3632	Thank you very much. We do have two replicas. The first one is those distinguished representatives of Martha Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3633	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. These amendments to the Law on the Design and Fraction of the Ministry and other central bodies, these are the changes we had three weeks ago in the formation of the Government. I understand and accept that it is the democratic right of the majority to form a government, to decide on the number of ministries and the formation of that government, but the question arises, I ask one logical question that was negotiated a month after the election between the future MOST partners and HDZ if we will form a government every 3 weeks ad hoc. The amendments proposed in this law also relate to changes in ministries. Here I ask the question of the purpose of such changes because we are changing the names from regional to regional and similar, and this thing only gives us extra costs and the question of what is the purpose of such changes other than costing, so we have to put on new plates, new memorandas, new stamps, etc. I just hope this new government will be, it won't be like the experimental government we've had for the last six to seven months. And I must especially point out that the last time the coalition partners of MOST and HDZ brought us as prime minister of a non-party person who has been announced to us as an expert on experts who will rebirth us, who will create a land of prosperity and come to help our country, and for his rule alone, we have the costs of summering his family who have remained unsettled and these days we can read that he has filed a payment claim 6+6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3634	Thank you very much. This didn't have much to do with this law, but good. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3635	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Mr Katic. My replica goes towards clarifying the relationship or jurisdiction of individual ministries towards this now legal solution. Namely, we formed October 14th the Central Office for State Property Management which actually inherited the current State Office for State Property Management. It's now going to be done by the State Property Management Department. My question is, since the Central State Office, as I understand it, the Central State Office was a hierarchical lower compared to the ministries and it actually fulfilled the tasks required by it or an opinion or whole procedure that would make state property management more meaningful. However, it will now be done by a ministry that is hierarchically equivalent to the ministry, and other ministries. For example, the example will be banal but allow it to be picturesque, if the Ministry of State Property Management estimates that it would be meaningful to place posters owned by the Croatian Forests, so let the Ministry of Agriculture on the market so that I can express myself during the election campaign and that political parties can advertise on these posters. However, the Ministry of Agriculture or the Management of the Croatian Forests takes the view that it does not want to politicise its space. So who's actually gonna be in charge, who can bring the last word in that case? For example HZ Infrastructure can also, we had a series of railway stations owned by HZ Infrastructure. Will the Ministry of Transport be responsible for these cases or the newly formed Ministry of State Property Management? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3636	Thank you very much. We'd like to move on to the representatives' clubs right now. Excuse me, will the committee's reporters take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you. Then I open the debate, and on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the first word will be taken by the honourable representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Minister of this law on his basic version, of course, when we discussed the structure and the detour just over 3 weeks ago, on Friday 14 October this year. I am sorry to point out that at that time, we were proud of the law with a lot of nice words from the prime minister at the time and today the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. And today, when we change that law and deviate from what the Honorable Prime Minister has said and today the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia has spoken. Today, before us parliamentary representatives, the courage has not come either he or his vice-president, the Registrar of Administration, is already being sent to the deputy minister, who, by the very laws we discussed on the same 14th of October 2016, means the deputy to whom the mandate apparently expires in a few days. Why isn't it already? Well, it's because of one of these two laws that we're discussing, because of the law on the system of state administration that we've respected colleagues and colleagues, and I'm going to be totally honest with you when you proposed it, so now we have to correct that mistake. But back to a much more significant law, and that's the one about the formation and detour of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration. As I said when we talked about this law, he was represented by the prime minister at the time and today by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Why do I keep saying that? Because Mr. Plenkovic spoke of this law and very proudly, very much as I would say, I would happily say that the law in question represents a significant rationalisation of the state administration's business because the imagineor reduces the number of ministries from 20 to even 19. And that was the big point of fellow representatives of the Most when they talked about the law. They were very commendable about the fact that the number of ministries would be reduced from 20 to 19. It was Friday, we learned on Tuesday that even though there are 19 ministries, the government will have 20 ministers. And all they learned was that this rationalization would be nothing. We did not know what the 20 unfortunate ministers would do, though, because he and Mr. Plenkovic were giving very opposite information all day long. One spoke would be the ministry, the other said the ministry would not be. Whoever spoke will be the ministry, that very minister. Who said the ministries wouldn't be, exactly Mr. Prime Minister. We assumed that he knew something more about it, however, it was found that Mr Plenkovic was not quite as independent, as sovereign, as determined as you wanted him to act. It is already obvious that Mr Plenkovic cannot determine from Friday to Tuesday how many governments the government will be headed by the ministries, let alone who will lead them. My colleagues and colleagues from MOST and HDZ do you good. Because the success you have achieved with this law has not been recorded in 26 years of modern Croatian democratic multiparty political history. That in three weeks from the moment we presented the new government structure, we changed it. So you started with a kind of record. Your coalition government set up one with Mr. Black eight, nine months ago, and now we have a new one, and you're doing your best to write history. Now that we're talking about this rationalization already and then we've shown you that the fact that the number of ministries from 20 to 19 doesn't change the fact that the total number of central government bodies is increasing because you've increased them by one. But then you said it doesn't matter, we're reducing the number of ministries and you gentlemen said then, so does it bother you that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is detaching sport into a new set-up? You then praised the system of the Central Office of the State Administration and showed that the Central Office of the State Sport Administration would be a rescue for the property. Obviously, this single-area management system is not good because it's obviously going to go in the other direction, and that's going to end the Central State Office and set up a ministry. Gentlemen, the fact is that with the management of property owned by the Republic of Croatia there are serious problems. The fact is that almost all governments have done much to solve these problems, but the change of title from the central state office to the ministry is not enough. And besides that name change, I'll be completely honest with you guys, do something else. Yes, of course, this law isn't just a change of name. This law is interesting, because apart from changing in record short he has almost the same number of articles as the one we adopted twenty days ago, just over three weeks ago. And why is that? Because we've changed almost every provision of that law. And why is that? Because you've been competing over the little things while you've been negotiating the formation of a coalition, and about really important things like the look, like the government's functioning, like the adoption of the 2017 budget, like tax reform because you're arguing about it on a daily basis, you didn't agree on it. You have agreed that parliamentary representatives of the opposition will be punished when they destroy your quorum with a fine of 500 kuna, but about the government's appearance, not about it. Why? Well, I guess because it doesn't matter. And what will the government be like after this law is passed? Because you're going to adopt him. You have a majority for that. What will be the appearance and what will be the functioning of the government? Well, it's not clear to anyone because according to this bill, absolutely every ministry will make policy not only about governance but also about the availability of ownership rights in a particular company that belongs to the portfolio of a particular ministry. Yes, it is written to you almost every article of this amendment and addition ahead of us. It says the ministries will participate in the decision-making process. Doesn't it say, though, what does participation mean? But it says he'll participate. And instead of having a centralized decision in one place, not about whether or not to arrange a single power plant or something, but to have a centralized decision on whether HEP will remain state-owned or not, such decisions will be dispersed by several resolutions and no decision will be made. As far as HEP is concerned, it may be good, because I am not very happy to leave the honourable colleague Dobrovic with a decision on whether HEP will privatise or not, but it is a completely, completely different story. The next problem with this bill. There is something called the Law of Management and Property owned by the Republic of Croatia. That law after we adopt this, I guess it'll be on Friday and after this comes into effect I guess it'll be Saturday, because you made it take effect the day after the publication in the People's Newspaper, and we know that these things go quickly. Once we adopt this property owned by the Republic of Croatia, it will not be possible to dispose of the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because they are not in conformity, because the management mode does not comply with the law governing this management. From that story that we had at the time regarding whether the board of directors of this institution or that institution, I think that we also discussed it with the CERRP sitting first or second vice president. The system which provides for this law does not comply with the Law on management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. I don't have any problem with you and that law changing, because it's gonna repeat your right once again and your responsibility as ruling. But when you're changing the management system, do it consistently, do it at all levels, and not again as it happened to you with this other law that we're currently discussing that because of your mistake for a month we can't implement the decisions that we want to implement as a state. Not all of the ambiguities of this law that some have already called Lex Maric, but I will not because his problems go further than that. We ordered you three weeks ago to have a problem overlapping certain parts of the ministry. For example, we talked about overlapping the Ministry of Administration with the central state digitization office's detachment to call it that. The overlap still remains at the Ministry of Administration something that should certainly be entered in the middle of this Central State Office. I suggest that the government intervene with the amendment. Article 10 relating to the Ministry of Administration is the subject of these amendments, do so, correct. These two bodies are going to fight. There will be a conflict of jurisdiction, you really don't need it. We have further questions from the Ministry of Economy. I listened to you talking about the Ministry of Economy, but I also read this law and the one we talked about three weeks ago. You need to be completely honest. Croatia will no longer have the Ministry of Economy after this change. It will only have the Ministry of Defence and Entrepreneurship, because after you have taken away energy, after you have taken away other things, after you have taken away any influence on property owned by the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Economy remains exclusively and only the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. And that's a notorious fact. I'll finish. Of course, as an opposition, we have the task of criticising the government, of course we have the task of proposing certain changes in how to correct it. You will remember three weeks ago this law within what we were able to do in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we proposed and certain amendments were adopted because otherwise, even a little bit of what you could have done in these months could not have been done because we simply wouldn't have a basis for it. However, our criticism is not because tomorrow we are laughing because the state is not working. It is in the interest of all of us that the Republic of Croatia will function, that the Republic of Croatia will be a state, that the government will function because it will make all of us better. But, gentlemen, with this law, with this bill of law, it will not come to this. The problems that exist with management, with the activation of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, the adoption of this bill will only become bigger. For this reason, the SDP Representatives Club supports the law concerning the state administration system because every mistake needs to be corrected and there is absolutely no reason to prevent the correction of that error that has happened because of the speed, inexperience or what has already happened. However, the law concerning the formation of ministries and other central authorities of the state administration cannot in any way be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3638	I'd like to thank the representative of the coat of arms. The first representative to report for the replica is representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3639	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You gave us about one lesson about how to work and how to forget and what you did when you had the chance to lead your country. Let me remind you, in your term of office, we discussed this law three times at the end of 2013 in a month when you changed state offices, joined the Foreign Trade Office with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, abolished the State Inspectorate and attached it or threw it to five ministries, etc. means in a month, and for the first time in the constitution of the government. Your rationalization was the act of raising the previous 16 ministries to 20 and politicizing the state administration again. How did you describe the need to pass this law? Creating an effective network of central government bodies as a modern and efficient citizen service. We accepted it then because every intention of the government to establish has to be accepted as something normal. The difference between this current government and yours is in one administrative body, let's call it that, more. You have established two special laws, a law on areas of special state care and a law on Croatia's cooperation with the Croatians in the diaspora and two state offices during your term, so we have discussed five times in the system of state administration and we thought it was normal, and if we want to address certain issues that are emerging at the moment. Perhaps this is not the best solution, but it will show time for certain activities that took place just in your time to justify the establishment of such a ministry of state property, and I will talk more about it in my individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3640	I thank Representative Boric. Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3641	Thank you, Mr. President. I listened very carefully to your colleague and, if I understand correctly, you are against the Croatian Office outside the Republic of Croatia. No, no, no, excuse me. You just said that and condemned that measure by the government of Zoran Milanovic. Well, just to be perfectly clear. However, I found it interesting to listen to your exposure from an interesting angle. Yes, of course, during a four - year term, there is a situation that needs to be changed. One of these things may have been related to the fact that by 1 July 2013, we had a vice-president who had no portfolio and who, as vice-president of the government, saw a whole series of activities that the Republic of Croatia had to carry out in order to meet the conditions for the accession treaty of the Republic of Croatia to be ratified in a series of EU and member states so that we could join the EU. After entering the EU, it is normal that certain organisational changes have occurred. But you see this change that we're talking about is a change from the 2011 law that happens in 2013. The change we are discussing today is a change from the law of 14 October 2016 that we are discussing on 8 November 2016. You see that little difference, two years and twenty days. Here's a little something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3642	I'd like to thank the representative of the coat of arms. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3643	Dear colleague Grbin, first of all I agree with you, I agree with you that this is an important topic and that the minister should definitely be here and explain this composition here to all of us. What I answered for the replica is to thank you for bringing me back almost three years ago, only that on that side of the assembly there was a position, here the opposition, and we talked about disbanding AUDI and forming DUDI was somehow on your wave just like you said today, but it didn't work out that way. As far as these laws are concerned, which will need to be consistent with the newly established ministry, we must all agree with you here and not just that law. I'm only afraid of one, and we'll have to talk about it thoroughly here in the Parliament because in 2011, when that famous Privatisation Act was formed, when the state office was formed, so when AUDI was formed, then when you formed DUUDI in the explanation was always the same. Not all assets have been recorded, you've made a positive announcement in 2011, you're in 2013, so now it says in the explanation it's forming a register of real estate, damages, losses, all of what the unrecorded property brings or creates, and it's definitely something that we're going to have to deal with. But he's got to go with something. And in this part, I think that the formation of a ministry that should be thoroughly dealt with is definitely a good thing. And that it will also need to be adapted to a number of laws, and that's a good thing, but thank God we're at the beginning of the mandate, and I think we all need to get our heads together in that part because I've had 11 years of honor to be at the head of the city all the time, and I've been leading this problem of solving state property in our space that we can't function because it's all too slow and we don't have that register of property.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3644	Thank you. Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3645	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, aside from coming from a very similar geographical area, is not your city so far from my Istria and I share your experience because as a member of the Headship for four years I have been in charge of managing in some way property in the city of Pula and I know what the problems with state property are. And that's why I'm always glad when you bring out those, your visions that come from the field, that come from the mouth of someone who knows what I'm talking about. I have to correct you finely not in 2013 formed State Office, it started working before 2013, we passed the Law on Management and Property at the property ownership of the Republic of Croatia, he brought some shifts. And yes, I'll agree with you, it didn't bring all those shifts we wanted. And it's true that we all have to figure out how to move forward together. But now we're coming to that segment where I still won't agree with you, and that's a segment where I think it's just the adoption of a new regulation that's going to arrange a way to dispose of the property owned by the Republic of Croatia if we feel that the existing one should be changed should precede the formation of the Ministry. So first we had to define what the ministry would do and then form it. Because it seems to me, and I can't get rid of that impression that this ministry was formed exclusively and only so that the person who was 14/10 shouldn't be on the list of 19 ministers for those 19 ministries that we set up at the time so that the person could be housed somewhere. And I'm sorry, too, but I'm afraid that all this stuff that we're talking about today is actually just covering those facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3646	Thank you, Agent Grbino. The next representative, Branko Bačić, picks up the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3647	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been listening very carefully to you, and I thought you said you didn't deny the right of the Prime Minister to define his cabinet. And it's good that you think so, so in that sense, and I understand your debate because if you didn't think so, then you wouldn't be credible given everything you've done over the past four years, or 5 years ago, when the government of Zoran Milanovic took responsibility for running the state. I hope you haven't forgotten that, immediately after the government's appointment, you passed laws that allowed you, by the principle of rotating governments, to come to the ministries of people outside the state administration, to be employed and to be at the service of ministers. So you made it possible for the ministers to define their own cabinet independently of the State Administration System Act under which there is a public tender, etc. On the other hand, you have also assured us here that it is the right of the Prime Minister and all ministers to appoint boards of directors in public enterprises, to name administrations in these public enterprises, because you have spoken about what public procurements they have set up, let the ministers themselves assume responsibility and put people in the most important public companies from their highest confidence. Thus, you made it possible to raise employment in the state administration beyond the public tender and then you included these same people through the transfer to the work of the state administration to become civil servants although they did not go through public tenders. Therefore, you have done all of this to allow both the prime minister and the ministers in the government to work past the public tender, to bring people into the system and now you would dispute the right of the Prime Minister to change the law after 15 days and allow his cabinet to expand for one minister. That's why I agree with you that it's okay to support the possibility that the Prime Minister defines his cabinet because if you didn't, then you wouldn't really be credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3648	Thank you, Agent Bačić. Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3649	I'll start at the end, and I'll thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to start at the end and assume that this was a lapus, and that after years in politics, you know that the Prime Minister is not changing the law, but that the Croatian Parliament is changing it. So I believe this was about one lapus. And yes, the Prime Minister has the right to propose and what his government will look like is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is interesting and I have Mr Plenkovic's speech here while he was still a prime minister, where he spoke in a laudable manner about how his government would be 19, imagine 19 instead of 20 ministries. That was Friday, next Tuesday we had 20 ministers. I'm just saying that this maneuver has shown absolute unbelief, everything that's been said when you are, and when I say you may not think of you personally, but of you as a member of a collective, it's the HDZ's Club of Representatives, which is a bile and bitterly defending the reduction of ministries. And as you then wheezy and bitterly defended the reduction of ministries today, you defend the increase of that same number in less than 4 weeks, 3 weeks and a few days. Now, as far as the rotating door system is concerned, so-called. revolving door system. And you and I know, and you now very consciously deceive the Croatian public that no one who was represented by the rotating door system could have been moved to another place in the state administration unless it came from the same state administration under the agreement, which means except when he came there as a state official. And you read in that package of laws that we passed a few days ago when we discussed this law as well as what the position of your prime minister's advisors would be where you yourself know that this system was good and that this system is useful and that you are now inventing various ways to replace it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3650	I'd like to thank the representative of the coat of arms. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3651	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Grbin, your Government, the SDP government made rules in the spring of 2016 a new collective contract for workers, which is said to be a positive privatisation of HEP for HEP workers and, in addition, the same administration tried to reorganise HEP to make it easier to end up on the market, i.e. privatize. However, it was the Most flag and we will, we have asked then to conduct the tender. It was not in MOST's efforts that HEP was privatized as you started privatising INA where you hostilely gave management rights and white nights that produced more oil than both INA and MOL together that you gave to the Hungarians. So while MOST's things aren't going to happen and those reorganizations that have tried to make the administrations that you and your government have appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3652	Thank you, Agent Buljo. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3653	My apologies, Mr. President, was also a violation of the Rules of Procedure and a response to the replica. It's not just colleagues from the middle who can speak very much in this House. Well, if I may, first of all, of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3654	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3655	So you and I both know that a respected colleague, Bulj, hurt Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, since he was away from the agenda, and he also violated Article 235. The Rules of Procedure because I wasn't talking about specific layoffs or this. So please find it. After your answer, if you'll allow me, I'll move on to replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3656	I followed your presentation carefully and in your presentation you were the first to step away from the topic, since you mentioned HEP. As far as I know, Representative Bulj referred to your words from your opening statement. So I don't see that Councilman Bulj in this regard has in any way violated the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3657	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Bully, three weeks ago and a few days ago you were talking about this law, and then you said I'd be brief because we can see right here that there are fewer ministries of 19 ministries. I know you haven't been in the assembly since the beginning of my debate, and I know that you've flown in about half and I know that you've raised a replica plate as soon as you sat in your seat, but that doesn't change the fact that I've talked about the illogicality of both your coalition partners and the fact that you've been saying one thing more than three weeks ago and today you're completely ready to defend the other. What were you saying then? Saying that the number of ministries in the government needs to be reduced, you are now clearly representing that the number of ministries needs to be increased. As far as HEP is concerned, I did mention HEP. But I could mention any company owned by the Republic of Croatia. Because this problem with HEP will arise when we talk about INA. It will be because by adopting this bill we create a noise in communication, we create a noise in communication not regarding what companies owned by the Republic of Croatia should work on implementing the laws and policies of the Republic of Croatia. We create a noise in communication that will affect the way in which the ownership stakes of the Republic of Croatia are managed in these companies because it is completely unclear how the resolution ministries will participate in the preparation and decision-making of the availability of these companies. And one of the types of availability is just selling or privatizing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3658	Thank you, Agent Grbino. The next representative to report for the replica is representative Stjepan Kovač. Representative Marko Vesligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3659	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Grbin, here is when you open all the googles present today and type down the number of ministries will appear to you two dates of 4 October 2016 and 7 October 2016 and both refer to the statement of the then prime minister of the Croatian government, Andrej Plenkovic, who says we will reduce the number of ministries. It's been less than a month since the government was formed, and we've already had a new structure of that government. So much for credibility. I think they're smart enough about that. We're well aware of why we're forming this ministry today that I'm not saying anything, maybe it's necessary. I understand a number of my colleagues from local self-government who have major problems with state property but then we should have formed it immediately, not sending this to emergency procedures today. Instead of finally discussing in this emergency procedure the crucial issues that affect Croatian citizens today. Let's get one in that procedure so that we can get as Parliament's representatives drafts and tax reform, get citizens information on how much they can collect, maybe even make something cheap, and that they can actually plan their budgets, that they know how to spend their salaries and their pensions. And give us local self-government information on how to get our budgets together if any of us can even get along. These are the crucial questions that we should be interested in here in the Croatian Parliament today, as well as our citizens. And not whether we're going to have an office or a ministry just because someone has a desire to be a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3660	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3661	Thank you. Well, you're a colleague of mine. So in the election campaign and in that post-election negotiating atmosphere, things were said. There were huge reforms, various guarantees were announced. One of the things that appeared was the reduction of the state administration. And what did we get in return? We've got the number of ministries that are exactly the same as they have been before, we've got the number of central government bodies that are growing, we've got that instead of deputy ministers who could only be one in one ministry we can have a few state secretaries in each ministry, we've kept the assistant ministers. And what did we get? In fact, we got one big, colorful lie. But unfortunately, it's something we're used to from this coalition that's now in power. I sincerely hoped that with Mr Plenkovic there would be some completely new winds, but what is happening today, this incredible mess that we have only three weeks and a few days after we have presented the reform of state governance, we are changing that same reform just to catch one man does not give me the right to expect that this coalition will bring much good to Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3662	I'd like to thank the representative of the coat of arms. The representative who responded for the replica is representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3663	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a colleague of the coat of arms from the debate and, as well as from the opening presentation, we could conclude that this is an extremely important and important ministry. And then I have to ask myself how it's possible that we forgot it at the beginning when we represented the government and the changes that were presented as part of this new important change in government and these savings and rationalization, and now after a few weeks we come to the conclusion that we are missing this very ministry right now. I realized from your presentation that this is causing one chaos, because we're no longer going to know who's running what, which ministry. Does the Ministry of State Property manage, whether the Ministry of Economy, whether the Ministry of Health. We don't know what or who's in charge anymore. And in the end it's no longer clear to me how many ministries we have, how many ministers we have, how many state offices we have, how many state secretaries we have, how many ministerial assistants we have, and where it's really so important and so pompously announced rationalization and savings in state services.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3664	I thank the MPs Comparić Devčić. Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3665	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear colleagues, you're absolutely right. If you promote this bill that we are discussing today, you will see that the introduction of this ministry has led to the need to change the scope of all other ministries because each other's ministry is being arranged to participate with this ministry in the interests of commercial societies that belong to the ownership of these ministries. It would be interesting to see for each ministry the individual company that falls under their jurisdiction, to see how it will now and which ministers have valuable state property. And yes, what you said is also true, I may be boring but it's worth repeating. If this ministry had indeed been planned, if this ministry had really been the core of a new management model presented to us by the mandater, then this ministry would have been found not only in the Law that we adopted 14.10.2016, but it would have certainly been in this form with this programme and with these activities found in the work programme of the Government that we adopted only a few days later. And you will remember the person who would most likely become the minister of this resistor then dragged in, retreated, persuaded him to come as a few days later. But it's all on schedule.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3666	I'd like to thank the representative of the coat of arms. And the representative who also reported for the replica is a representative of Martha Luc-Polanc. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3667	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Grbin, unlike other colleagues, I understand that you have no problem with this bill. You're the only problem these 21 days that I understand, and the law's intensity is commendable to you. However, that 21 day I will interpret it better and later than I will ever come to it. And why am I saying this? I'm saying this for the reason that another association of cities in 2013, so 120 mayors of 126 mayors proposed something just like this. The biggest problem, the crucial problem of all local administrations, is real governance of state property. I don't think there are nearly any local communities in which there is no state property, and the state doesn't even know that it owns that property, and that, in parallel with that property, they can't manage local communities. For this reason, it is already such a proposal that the importance of the management of state property is needed in the end and in the previous meeting of the Committee on Local and Regional Administration has also been discussed on this subject and in a way that should give greater importance to the management of state property because it is, with all the problems we have at this time, a crucial problem for both citizens and all the local communities and above all, the state itself. I'll repeat once again, in the area of almost all local communities you have state property for which state I don't even know about. As early as 1996, everything that didn't go into privatisation in the possession of privatised companies, unfortunately privatisation as it is, became the property of the state. Unfortunately, 80% of that property hasn't even registered yet, and that's a shame for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3668	Thank you, Agent Boban. Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3669	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I agree with you that this is an extremely important issue, that this is an extremely important portfolio, but the team is more surprised that it has been forgotten and when the system of new governance was being set up and when the government's work programme for the coming period was being represented. But I'll agree with you, better then later than nothing. I'm also the 14th. On 10th and today I repeat one thing and stand by it, you are ruling, you are in a position to define the rules of the game and the rules under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will operate during the coming period. It is your right, but it is also your obligation and therefore you must bear responsibility for what you do. You have to bear responsibility for the fact that for a month we have almost had the situation that because of the error in this second Law on the State Administration System, some things cannot function, and you will also be held accountable for the fact that we have passed this law or that we will pass this law that will regulate a new way of managing state property through the Ministry, and that we have not initiated the process of adopting all those accompanying acts that should only allow this ministry to work. And that's why I told your colleague Klaric when I was gossiping about his replica, you started from the roof, not the foundation. You have no basic assumption that this ministry, when it is established and when it is established in this House, we will discuss and confirm the person who will lead it, that it begins to work because you built a roof, and the foundations on which the house would stand, and that is the Law on Management and Property owned by the Republic of Croatia, we have yet to discuss it. Wrong way, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3670	Thank you, Agent Grbino. The next club to report for participation in the debate is the HDS Club of HSLS and their representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3671	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Our club will support these two amendments to the law. And now I'm going to try to explain why they're going to support it. Not management of state property all this time has become the cancer of Croatia's wounds and a large now well-fated and untapped potential. And no one can tell me that even in public perception I am the name and status of the ministry is not stronger than the office's status. So, perception itself is already saying something. And I'm glad that the government has already seen this problem within three, three and a half weeks and decided to take this approach. Well, that's a good message. Of course, the ministry that will be set up will also have a huge job in amendments to legal regulations, and in all other things. It's a terrible problem, terrible obligations. But by my judgment, I think we've finally decided to take this issue seriously. Over and over for almost 16 years, I've been a local leader. Units of local self-government who were lucky to have in their own space and several state property facilities. I've written a few pages here just numbered what we've done to put that property into operation. Let's tell you that from 2002 until 2009, we fought battles and wars with AUDI, I don't know what kind of vehicles, offices to even get into a situation and an opportunity to do something about it. When DUUDI was formed then here in this assembly on this right hand side we warned the opposition that we wanted to create Superman and that we wanted to load a man on the back of a burden that no man could bear and that's exactly what happened. I ask you, how much of this state property has been put into operation in the four years or so, or those two, three years since Mr. Pejnović was the head of DUUDI. I have to say one more thing, that here these few months as Mr. Boban was, that I managed to solve a problem that I've been solving for five years also for my local self-government for social benefit. I couldn't even get to DUUDI, I didn't even know he had moved because no one wanted to see me as mayor or as parliamentary representative. And that is why I am pleased that we will have the Ministry and that the minister will be available to us too, but I believe that this ministry will certainly have good co-operation and partnership with local self-government. Because right now there was a problem, we had this terrible antagonism between the state and local self-government. Well often both personally and many colleagues and colleagues have said here, that I often feel like we're some kind of two opposing, two opposing bodies here in this assembly, in this country. I think the approach that one office in the state can solve everything that's in the entire Republic of Croatia that's completely missed the system all these years behind us. I am speaking to you specifically, speaking from practice and experience, so we managed to get from the state to the right to build a former military space in the Križevci, we were able to re-design it. It took us a little longer than it took for us to get it. And about 130 million kunas were invested in re-use and over 100 people were employed, new jobs. So evidence, concrete evidence that state property can be put into service if the state is a partner with local self-government, and if it is supported, if it is not killed. But now that the office, when officials in the office are people who don't understand the problem because they say they're not politicians, they're just professionals. So how am I supposed to explain to some professional lawyer or lawyer the meaning and the essence of something on the ground and say the benefit that's going to happen when he tells me a story that I don't understand as I've had the opportunity to hear and these days when I've asked to allow me to change, i.e. Extending the building rights deadline, and I couldn't explain it. I said okay, we'll wait for the ministry so when the minister comes, when he sets it up, then the minister will surely understand as a politician the size of all that is ahead of us, I'm convinced. And I really think it's good to form this. And I don't understand what we've been discussing here before. About the number of ministers? So does something increase in the number of ministers? Not that I know of. Is DUUDI going to go to the ministry? It will. Is that a state body? Yes, it is. Now we can talk about it in a way that's a little bit politicized, but let's get people back, let's see at a time that the government and whose government is doing something, let's do an analysis when something's done, when it's not, so we're going to get very interesting data. In any case, if I don't, this ministry is needed, this is a message, this is a good sign, it's mine to say that I expect from that ministry, from the head man, from the government of the Republic to be one symbiosis, one partnership between the local level and the state, and we can really, in a very fast time, of course, change the whole series first, not one law, so if we want to start the process we're going to have to change a whole series of laws, but people are here. What are we going to drive on the same road and see that it's wrong and we're going to go all the way down that road until we hit the wall? So let's change the laws, let's fix the road, that's why we're here. We have a series of wrong laws, a forest of stupid regulations that are totally inconclusive, but let's be ourselves, this synergy that's going to start pushing this into one real road, one real path that ultimately results in a function of these objects, an opportunity for new jobs, and what's most important is what I always talk about, the preservation of life in all parts of Croatia. Because state property, these objects that are located across our Republic of Croatia are places where life can develop and preserve life in rural areas. I'm saying it from experience, I'm saying it from practice, I'd very much like it if someone didn't believe it, I'm calling for it to come, to see if we could look at what we've done, what we've done, what we've put into function, and to point out problems that we haven't done yet, and there's a lot of it. So our club will support absolutely changing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3672	I'd like to thank Representative Hrg. Representative Tomislav Klaric applied for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3673	Comrade Hrg, I do not think there is a city or municipalities in the Republic of Croatia without seeing the problem that you encountered when you asked for something to allow the city or yours or any of the municipalities in the Republic of Croatia to get faster to the property that is state-owned and that it can put it into some function of interest for the city. And that's why I think and I hope that this ministry in that part of the circle will change that part of the way we work, but that this part of us down from the field will be respected even more, where these assets are legitimately sought. And to talk about the problems that you have touched in part and which makes us right, because the law in that section covers them, a state attorney's office where according to the Law on Agricultural Land currently owned by still a unit of local self-government without contact with the city, often without contact with the municipality of books owned by the state and at the moment they do not know what all these areas of land are and which are covered by some kind of urban or spatial plans, dedicated, intended for either economic or some other activity. And then it takes two, three years for all these instruments to be launched in some way to get that municipality or the city to have that property or management and to put it into office and in that time, a number of investors who were interested in that space disappear. So when we talk about all these problems, we talk the same way that when we talk about us, we talk about people who have been operationally dealing with this on the ground 5 years ago, and 6 years ago, regardless of what Mr. Peja Grbin was saying was in power by them or us, or which party ran the state and what the office was called. Unless something like that changes, regardless of the agency or the ministry, it won't be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3674	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3675	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Well, we understand each other absolutely in that part. You reminded me of something when you mentioned both the state's attorney's office and that property transfer thing. Well, it's funny what's happened over the past 4.5 years. So all the areas in the area have been copied, and here I have a full park full of several hectares, city squares because of the state road going through that part. So they didn't go to the variant to separate the road, but they copied the whole particle with the squares, with everything in the country. And then they told us, so you were supposed to complain and we didn't even know it was happening, and then they said ok now write down a request and then do a plot, set up a road and pay for it, and then I give you back yours. That's when it happens when the left doesn't know what he's doing right and vice versa. Because there is no cooperation, because the state offices that are some message of centralisation are being set up in a completely different way, they have no partnership with local self-government, they have no political sense and that's the problem and that's the problem. And that's why it's happening to us. That's why we need the Ministry absolutely and absolutely advocate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3676	I'd like to thank Representative Hrg. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3677	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's another line, so I'll probably pull the individual debate. My dear colleague, Mr. Hubbin, I'd be delighted to hear the same thing. You were talking about Superman, that Superman who wasn't walking the ground but was floating somewhere in the air and didn't obviously feel what was happening on the ground. Indeed AUDIO and DUDI was a big problem, but the special problem was when Superman was at the head of DOUDI. That's an absolutely big problem. You're lucky he didn't take you in. That's trust me luck. So one object that did not enter the core capital of the cement factory in one area of the town of Solin in Majdan collapsed, collapsed, threatened the threat to the citizens and, of course, after more orders and the intervention I introduced the municipal enterprise to clean it up. And imagine what Superman did because it was their property that he hadn't booked for 20 years yet he made a report to me. Here's how you know you went well with Superman after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3678	Reply to the replica MP Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3679	Yes, my dear colleague, it's true. Maybe so. And I had contacts, because we needed to expand the waste dump on the country, so they first gave us instructions that some municipal enterprise would make a request. Then when we did everything, all the papers they told us in DUUDI solved and came, let's get it done, then they said no local self-government has to do it. So we're doing it all over again, and then back again so it'll almost turn out again to be someone else's third sea. So these are the things that happen on the ground and I repeat that only a man who is in politics, who is chosen and chosen in some way can understand. A clerk can't just figure it out. He's acting like he's in a bank, like he's on a counter. So I'm saying in all that time for almost 16 years, I didn't know in that term that the address had been changed, that DUDI had moved because when my folks in town wrote requests, it wasn't your address, it was your wrong address. No, he doesn't say that's the address. So how long? Well, it's been a year and a few days. I said great, great, that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3680	I'd like to thank Representative Hrg. The next representative, Josip Boris, reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3681	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrg, you have well noticed that here almost nothing in total changes although on the other hand trying to impose something to increase in terms of the total number of central state bodies i.e. the bodies of the State Administration or the Ministry. If we've abolished one central state office that we've abolished and added the ministry to the minister who's already been appointed, I think it's an absolute sum in all of that. So there's nothing in that part. However, the ministry's part-round, i.e. What the minister will do is what is the obligation of the appointed minister and what is the obligation of all of us to follow in the next period. Why? So let's just remember the end of 2015 and the findings of the State Audit right in the Department of State Administration of State Property, the famous affair in which one suddenly states that I quote "the value of shares and shares managed by DUUDI recorded in the business books in 2014 by 16.6 billion is less than the value in the register and the notification of the SKDD of the parent book of all shares. Whether 16.6 billion unidentified assets in shares are sufficient reason for the new minister to deal with the entire state property, but also with this portfolio he will manage. I think that, that his options are much greater than the possibilities of the appointed Secretary of State let's say so of the Central State Office, his work in the Government, his presence in the coordinations certainly opens up space that through the new Ministry of State Property he will be able to deal more effectively with all the problems of state property, and in particular cooperation with local self-government units. The answer of the former director of DUUDI who answered that question, to the journalist's question, has been invented there by 16 billion kunas to be missing, and we do not miss anything is something that must warn us that the new minister has to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3682	I thank Representative Boric. Reply to the replica MP Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3683	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Boric, you have touched this second part not only of the objects, but of the total assets here. I expect this ministry to be the initiator of determining the strategic interests of what is owned by the Republic of Croatia, to see if I do not know one Podravka with the shares of the state strategic company of interest for the Republic of Croatia, whether or not of particular interest. What ratio, what terms are there? And what the amendments to the laws suggest, that this very ministry enters the virtual sector of every ministry that has to do with state property is a great thing. This is one link to obtaining in principle a final insight into the entire property of the Republic of Croatia whether it is material or immaterial and that it can thus discuss it and that it can be present at any government and participate in it. That's exactly the point of things. And what SDP colleagues say is that, no longer, it is more or less I believe that they will praise soon when the work of the ministry is little done and the move towards better management of state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3684	I'd like to thank Representative Hrg. The next club that reported for participation in the debate is the HDZ Representatives' Club and their representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3685	Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here are two laws in the emergency procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishments and Circumstances of Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration as well as the Law on Amendments to the Law on the System of State Administration. There were already a lot of words here about whether we needed it two weeks or three weeks before or today, but we should have had a clear picture of all the ministries when we represented both the government program and the entire government. I'd say, and I wish that was clear at that point and that we had all the ministries at the time and that's what we said. However, I would have been even happier and I would have preferred it if we'd done it with this ministry 10 years ago. Because what we're talking about here is a state property management problem that's not since yesterday, which is not small, which is one of the fundamentals. And that's why I'm very glad that this government detected it, even today, and that we will have a ministry that will manage state property and that for the first time we have the ministry responsible for demography. Demography is a problem which, looking at some future, may be the fundamental and greatest in the Republic of Croatia and this government has recognized it and this government has founded this ministry which I am also pleased with. So far, have we managed our state property well? I don't think I'll say anything new if I say anything and I won't say anything unknown that we've managed really badly, no matter what government is HDZ, SDP. Really, when we look at one continuity of state property management, it's bad. It's the best thing you can see from yesterday. Yesterday, one of the main news was that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic sat down at the table with the INA administration. The management of the INA is the largest company in Croatia that has 40, where we as the Republic of Croatia have just over 44% shares, the strategic most important company. And yesterday, the prime minister sits with the INA administration and we say that as an exception because all those years before our government did not find it appropriate to sit down and talk to the INA administration and discuss these important issues. This is, what you did yesterday gives me hope and faith that this ministry will achieve those good results and will be much better managed by the property of the Republic of Croatia. The property is huge, big. Let's start with real estate, apartments, land, tourist land. Let's start with shares, business shares, various public areas. These are indeed huge resources that are not in the service of Croatia's growth today, which bring almost nothing to Croatia today. In order to achieve GDP growth, in order to achieve a greater number of jobs, we must put into function the assets that the Republic of Croatia has. Definitely, in this government's programme, it is also one of the points of better use of state property, to better manage it, to make management faster, more dynamic. Life is fast today, but we really have very bad procedures here. I agree with all those who say that the decision to set up a ministry itself will not make a difference unless we change some of the essential provisions of the Property Management Act owned by the Republic of Croatia, because it is another document that comes after this. I think it's good that he comes after this, because the resolution ministry will then work on it and it will be a proposer actually to the government, and then the Government will propose it to the Croatian Parliament to bring it. What's important here I'd say in asset management in the future, it has to be faster, it has to be more up-to-date, it has to be me I'd say in some way and decentralised. This is where colleagues from local self-government have been saying how much trouble there is on the ground. And who knows better how to manage this property than a colleague Boban on his territory, Mato Čičak in Rugvica Municipality and the chiefs who are there, know exactly every corner of his municipality, his city, and know how some property should be put into office. Today, they are in a situation where when something is needed for them to participate in a way that requires them to submit and wait for God to have mercy on their turn, so now he wants to answer them like this or he will answer them like that. It must be one system that recognizes problems, which of course must form a quality and good register, which is not easy. Let us not forget that our land books and catastres are not perfect, but it is only the common information system where the properties that are kept in the catastrus and land books do not match each other. We need to harmonize them, we need to create a system that will be true and that will know how things are going to go. So here I am, on behalf of the HDZ Club, truly expressing hope that this kind of organisational form will be when we have the ministry to create assumptions that we better manage state-owned property tomorrow. With this system that has been so far, the organisational forms of AUDI, DUUDI and I don't know what, but this is the highest organisational form of the state organisation, so the ministry and the ministry on which management should be based is one principle of responsibility. The property should be managed responsibly, so the lawyers tell me, with good lord's sake, that everything is clear, to be visible, that there are no jobs under the table and in particular that third principle must be effective. We need to know if we are managing the property that this property must bring benefits to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What is owned by the Republic of Croatia is also owned by that teacher and nurse, it is the property of all citizens and all must benefit from it. If it's going into some kind of sales, it can't be based on the various principles that I've mentioned to INA, and now we see what experience we have from that sale. Criminal proceedings are being conducted, arbitration is being conducted, and it really is not on the picture or on the occasion, and it needs to be done with such practices. This is a law that creates preconditions for better governance. I deeply hope that those of us who are here in Parliament too that we will keep an eye on what is going on because our voice, in a very different way, that can help us to manage well because we know and know where things need to be done better. In the end, I was addressed as all of you sitting here, not only by the businessmen, but also by the small people who I don't know, having some kind of orna or some kind of agricultural area that is based on some kind of fixation that's owned by the state and these procedures take years and years to get them together and to manage to collect it into a plot or some kind of entrepreneurs, businessmen who want to create some sort of complex for a particular economic project, the same difficult torment comes to these procedures. But here were the words and our municipalities, at last I know and for the county from which I come we want to work the waste management center and some 20, 30 hectares that lean on one surface on which we reflect are owned by the Republic of Croatia. These are the problems of life, these are the problems that people recognize on the ground and that are very burdensome to us, and that is why we have to have a transparent and clear system and we expect this ministry to form. As far as this other law is concerned, it is said that we are correcting a failure that took place three weeks ago to move on to the State Secretary's system. Here, by amending this second law, we're sort of fixing it. The system of state secretaries of the former government had, that of the SPD government had a system of deputy ministers and ministerial assistants, here it will move on as announced to the system of state secretaries and to the system of directors instead of assistants to be appointed in public tenders. What we need in the state administration is an unequivocally professional, modern administration at this level at which the directors of the ministry administration should be depolitized and it should certainly be on a professional level because it will guarantee continuity because life does not begin and history does not begin with every new government that comes to the scene. There is one continuity that must be respected, and continuity can only be provided by professional, quality people who, in this way, need to be received in the state administration. That is why this statement, made by the prime minister, that both in public and commercial societies where the founder of the Republic of Croatia is, that administrations will be elected not by political lines but by public tender. It's the same thing that I think we should say hello that we all need to be encouraged together. The HDZ Club supports both of these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3686	I would like to thank Representative Bosnjakovic. The first representative to report for the replica is Pedja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3687	Dear colleague Bosnjakovic. I'm going to start with something that would be more like a correction to an incorrect quote. You said yesterday was the first government meeting with the INA administration, it's not exactly like that. I think that everyone in Croatia knows about those familiar videos when one former prime minister of the Republic of Croatia met with one representative or the chairman of the MOL administration in the group that INA was making and then we know how it ended afterwards. But joke aside. Both the previous government and those before it and those before had continued contacts with the government not only of the INA but also of all other companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. So I wouldn't go that far so I've been giving this meeting some kind of historical significance since yesterday. However, the other things you said, you say to the ministry, maybe it should have been formed 10 years ago, and that's the main summary of my replica. Well, it's not a matter of the ministry, it's a matter of frameworks and all the debates I've heard coming from your side. I realized that the remark goes to the framework, especially the one relating to the relationship between the ownership of the Republic of Croatia and the local self-government unit. But that framework will not be changed by the fact that instead of the central office today we have a ministry. So all we're saying here is that by changing the name along with the cleavage that remains in a significantly similar way, we're going to do a miracle. And from all your debates, I hear there's a problem in the other, there's a problem in the law. And precisely because when we change the name, the ministry won't be able to exercise its powers stemming from the law, I say we should have changed the law first, that we really wanted this ministry to function and only then move on to the formation of the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3688	I'd like to thank the representative of the coat of arms. Reply to the replica, Representative Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3689	First of all, I'm going to do this to you about the INA, and your company didn't act so well here either. Let's remember in 2003, 25% of INA shares were sold plus that one for 505 million dollars. But let us also remember that no locations in Syria are included in that price. It's like if you sold your house and didn't include the whole top floor in the price. Therefore, the continuity of mistreatment related to INA exists independently of which party. I cited in principle both the two and the third who did not do so well. And that's why I'm glad, and this gives me hope that someone sat competently in the way of the government sitting as a partner in governance and ownership as a leader of the INA. This gives me hope that it will become a practice and that problems may be solved in this way. As far as this is concerned, it is possible to change the Law on Social Property and to change afterwards. I believe and so I said in my presentation, it is crucial to change procedures, procedures must be faster, the system must be more modern, people who are inside must be more educated and things must simply go faster. And then there will be no problem for relations with local self-government or related to other forms of ownership that we have in the Republic of Croatia that will be managed by either the Ministry or any other body. And in my presentation, I said that it's not crucial is it going to be a ministry, but I think that this is one of the highest levels of the government's organisation and that it's actually going to make things better and more transparent, it's bigger in some way and more responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3690	Thank you. The second representative to report for the replica is legislator Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3691	Dear fellow Bosniaks, I understand your motivation to support a new organisational form of state property management and to raise it to the ministry level because you expect it to be more successful. But what made me report to the replica, and you can't argue that it will be a system that recognizes citizens' problems because the system was as long as it was the Privatisation Fund and DUDI and AUDIO, it's all systems, all systems are more or less well imagined and from all governments and your governments were in most cases in the Republic of Croatia at the time period. The system is made up of people, and I hope that the new minister will try to make sure that in this ministry there are people who recognize citizens' problems, who recognize the good initiatives of local self-government entrepreneurs and all those who, on this social, social, I say correctly because not all of them are still state-owned even the legion of artis on that social property, are building something that is useful for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I hope that, not to commit, we have a system that recognizes but that it will be we have people, we have employees, we have those who have a lot of sensitivity receiving citizens, they receive initiatives and they go into realisation because so far there have been too many interferences of all kinds of policies, the interests of individuals, the will to speculate and I have been here for 13 years and I've done a lot of work before when certain governments have sent firms into bankruptcy and those that they should have and those who could only, by agreement of the creditors, still be alive and save a lot of jobs. It was in our young history of all sorts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3692	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, Representative Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3693	A colleague of Hrelj and you and I know that after this law, we will have a ministry, not a central state office. And you and I both know that it's actually going to be the same people because the law says that these same people who are in the Central State Office cross over as they do as employees in the ministry. And I didn't even claim that the fact itself will make it better, I just believe and I hope and we're here to control it and we're working on the procedure being faster, it's going to be more quality and we're all going to contribute together and this is the first assumption that we're going to take the organisational level up to one higher, higher step.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3694	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3695	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, therefore I cannot agree with you that we are all in the interest of putting state property into office. And in that sense, even forming a ministry doesn't have to be a bad foundation, it can actually be a good foundation. You mentioned here that surely with that asset that is attractive, which can be sold should be managed in a rational and reasonable way, especially that it does not happen that such property is sold at telephone sessions. So I think the future minister who will manage the state property will probably account for it more. However, the question arises as to what is the less attractive, less attractive state-owned property that is often the way to express myself falls on the burden and units of local self-government. And here I also agree with my colleague Hreja without initiative and from below, without the initiative of the local self-government units, we can't really achieve much. Units of local self-government, because entrepreneurs must have ideas about how each state property will function. But that's why it needs money, finance. The only thing that I'm doing right now is, I don't know if the ministry is going to have enough financial resources to help local self-government units help them. Here, for example, someone here mentioned measurements, geodetic measurements of agricultural land, a process of cohesion where you say units of local self-government don't have that money to do it themselves. They need help from the ministry, and help from the county, eventually, some of their funds. Will the ministry, in this sense, have financial resources to help with these initiatives in order to put individual assets in a poor position? And I think if the ministry succeeds in that sense, then it will make sense. And selling attractive land always or attractive companies is always the simplest way to get funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3696	I thank Representative Sagar. Reply to the replica, Representative Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3697	You probably heard part of my discussion where I said that management should be kind of decentralised, that you should actually exploit the potential of both municipalities and cities, as well as the counties that in their area actually know where the state property lies as the easiest to activate it and that this synergy should certainly be recognised in future procedures. Because that way we'll do much better. And I believe that for such activities you will be quite certain in the budget and find the money, but in fact the activation of the assets needs to be produced and brought in the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3698	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Klaric. Then I apologize for standing up to me. The next representative is Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3699	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, management of state property is a key and one of the keys to the development of local self-government. That's what we've heard here a lot of times today. So much property that lies like dead capital and lies unused. So the important role we see here is either shy or we still don't get into this enough yet, but the property certainly, the state property that is enormously large should be tied up exclusively I would say, in the right sense of that word exclusively, but since mayors, mayors, mayors and those who act directly responsible roles for managing local and regional self-government are the ones who should and are the ones who recognize the best problems in their community and in which direction it should develop. So I'd like to ask you if this ministry is a direct help to local self-government? Is this ministry a positive and responsible story in the co-ordination of local government and state that abounds as I told real estate in the area of every local self-government. Time will show which direction it will go and which we can say is very important because we have defined ourselves by generalizing the problems that I said from the local level to raise this level of governmental property and governance to a higher level. Because by abolishing the agencies of state bodies and starting with the establishment of the ministry, we give real meaning in one way to local self-government, direct assistance. Is that how you think it is, or are we going to stay in letters like that so often? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3700	Reply to the replica, Representative Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3701	The establishment of this ministry, I think, is the help of the entire Republic of Croatia. So, the goal is to raise the organisational level of state property management at the ministry level. In fact, the goal is a transparent, responsible management, management of the good lord's mara which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and local self-government must benefit from. And in my presentation, I put a very special accent on a local self-government that must actually be active throughout this process because everyone in the areas of their local self-government units knows very well which property is abandoned and you probably know how to activate it. And this new ministry must work with you on the basis of this synergy of cooperation with you, I think, and we expect the benefit for the entire Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3702	I would like to thank Representative Bosnjakovic. And the representative who also reported for the replica is Representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3703	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, that man is always focused on the quality and organisation of work. The institution can be called whatever you want, service, office, ministry, but if it's not a man who's a quality engine, there's no luck. But I'll also say this, first of all, the advantage is his ministry because in the end, this man will be sitting in the meetings of the Croatian government, unlike the secretary of state or the head of the current State Administration Office. It's a big difference, it's going to be the focus of the government itself. Secondly, I will also say this in advance, it is necessary to further capitulate the current Office of State Administration and the quality and quantity. It wouldn't happen in... if you had an unsolved one problem they send, they say give you a fix on that property because the unsolved is exactly the most property, solve it property for the interest of the state. And when you've solved property for the state's interest either a natural person or a local administration and when you've solved property for the state's interest either a natural person, whether a local administration or an entrepreneur, and we'll decide if we're going to leave it to you, given, sold, traded or anything else. It's a very, very serious problem. The problem, a man of 83 metres of land of state property must, for the name of the state, carry out the procedure of the book, in order to wait or have mercy on whether Superman will assign it to him or not. That's why it takes the ministry tomorrow to stop us now, but the minister needs to be teamed up with both quality and quantitative teaming in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3704	Reply to the replica, Representative Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3705	My colleague Boban, I agree with everything you said because indeed you as head of local self-government until yesterday, and in the end, as a parliamentary representative, we meet every day people who bring us their problems, and very often these are the problems that are very much related to this segment. But what you said about being an important man, man is actually the most important in the whole system. And that's why I said that not only in this ministry, but at the level of the entire administration in the Republic of Croatia we need to define ourselves in fact for expertise without any political connotations, without any political references, but the only reference should actually be expertise and should be an equal opportunity for everyone. And that's why I like this concept that our Prime Minister said that we are in favour and that we will have ministers and state secretaries in the ministries as a political part, and below that we will return the directors of the administrations that have been elected and who will be elected in public competitions where opportunities must be equal to all. Because that's the only way we're going to get a quality public administration that will guarantee the continuity of good administration. Because this summit can be changed, but this professional section that is in the ministries must remain in continuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3706	Thank you. The next representative to report for the replica is MP Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3707	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So you told Bošnjakovic well that these laws promise that state property will be managed better and better quality. That so far it has not been so we have for example to see a series of objects standing empty, abandoned and not put into function. One example that is very attractive, and lately we can often hear it, which is that a number of institutions and companies use state property. They don't have lease contracts for her at these times. The lease agreements existed, and in the last year no one extended them, nor concluded new ones. That's enough talking about how he doesn't care enough about the state property he really needs to put into office, and I believe, as you said, that this ministry will certainly take care of it in a much better and better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3708	Reply to the replica, Representative Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3709	You're absolutely right. And in any city or any municipality, we could actually see how many business spaces there are where neither the ownership relationship nor the owner's or the tenant's relationship is solved. And even moreover, there is actually a whole series of disputes that are being conducted between the Republic of Croatia and between municipalities and cities where it is actually disputed whether it is state property or whether it is the property of a municipality which is actually unnecessary energy loss for all that time, that property does not give up much of a contribution, and it should. So here, that's, that's a well-opened question you said today. I'm sure the new ministry will take good care of it, and we'll be taking care of those of us who are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3710	Thank you, Representative Bosnjakovic. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, representative Krešo Beljak applied for participation. Since he's not losing his right to participate in the debate. The next Club of Representatives who applied for participation is a representative of HNS, HSU and their representative, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3711	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister or Minister, because you are still from the meeting with your associates, colleagues and colleagues. The club of the representatives of the CNS, the HSU, will support the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the System of State Administration, because it is a matter of errors which have been made and what needs to be corrected, and on the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the establishment and division of ministries and other bodies of the State administration, we will be abstentioned, or we will not vote in favour of that law. And now we're going to say a little bit about why. So when a new prime minister or new prime minister comes, he has absolutely the right to form his own government. According to the experience of some other countries, when the government is formed, several methodologies form. One methodology is to agree ministries towards processes and activities. The second methodology is to agree on people with whom the prime minister, or prime minister, is at his disposal and people agree with the ministries. And the third methodology is that these ministries give a certain message to the inside, so according to their own population, but also to give a certain message to the outside. The formation of the ministry that we've been talking about all along, which is the Ministry of State Property, I appreciate that this is a message that wants to be given to the inside, so to all of our citizens. But also a message that wants to be given outwardly, according to investors, to show that the Croatian state cares about property. And now let's see what happened here historically. Throughout history, we had a fund first, and then we had an agency behind the fund, and then we had an office from the agency, and now we have a ministry, and the problem is absolutely the same. I understand it's the end of the day and we're all a little tired, but no matter how many of us are in this assembly, I'm absolutely sure there's none of us who, when it comes to their own property, knows what's in it. We know what we have, we know what it's worth, and if we don't happen to know it or we don't know what it's worth, then we know why it's worth it. The state doesn't know that, and it needs to be said out loud and clear from this pay phone. Whether at the head of that office, agency, fund, office and ministry, regardless of whether the right or left side managed, we do not know what we have in the portfolio of state property and the state does not know what it manages. And all the time it was written in all the laws that the register was to be created. The registry started real back three, four years ago, and I made an effort, so I went to see what it says and what it's about. It says here that the state in its portfolio has 775 apartments, that it has 191 apartments that are given to use by officials, that it has 835 business spaces, that it has 435 thousand 702 square meters of property that is in use, but also says that it has 101 thousand 325 square meters where it is used for rent, so where different offices and ministries use private property for rent. Similarly, it says that it controls and has a million and 200 thousand building particles in its portfolio. This would be very important to check and see if this ministry will manage from strategic companies to horses. Don't be surprised it's not the end of the day, so I'm confused. So, as managed by the office, this ministry will also manage the temporarily seized assets when the property is temporarily seized when the process is under way. So against one gentleman is the process, he had five top horses and therefore DUUDI Office of State Property Management also takes care of those five horses. That's what this ministry will take care of. That's all to be considered. I'm pretty careful, like I'm a lot of nerds in my life, so then that's how the beans fall on you, so it fell on me, too, so I went very carefully to read what the DUDI is doing, which the ministry is going to do, and I went to see a little bit of processes as well. There are things about which I from this pay phone let me say and raise my doubts. So this new ministry will undoubtedly, without cooperation with other ministries, make decisions on the establishment of a list of companies and other legal persons of strategic and special interest to the Republic of Croatia. But then when they decide who will be at the helm of some of these societies, then they will do so in cooperation with other ministries. There's this one thing, when you're not sure, then make a commission. I'm afraid that's not the point here, I'm just warning, I'm warning you, no matter what I sit on the left, no matter what this left side is this moment is opposition. I care about this country, and I care about the property of this country, and I care about whether it's in strategic societies or whether it's about real estate, because I am responsible for my job and I want to be a responsible citizen of this country, and I want every Prime Minister who comes in here to be better than the previous one, regardless of which side of this assembly he sits on. So there's another job that's very unusual, and one day I'm going to ask how it's done. So unlike now, this ministry will carry out the tasks of professional training of members of parliaments, supervisory committees and management of companies. Well, I have to admit, I'm curious to know how a new minister will do it along with his associates. What I'm saying is, I want to say that it's a huge portfolio, I want to say that these are societies of strategic and special interest and up to the ones mentioned here, I want to say that there are going to be a series of problems that are in other words, if it's thought and if the idea that by setting up the ministry is going to solve all those problems that were, let's see if we can see that it's going to be solved. However, there is no ministry that can work and that can produce results if it does not know what it manages. This ministry doesn't know what it's going to run, and there's a fundamental problem. It's not a problem if it's called a fund, an agency, or it's called a state administration office or a ministry, but the problem is that every ministry needs to know what it's running, so it has to know this. It's a priority, when we have it, then we can make a deal. We can say that someone manages worse or more, but that's a fundamental problem. Equally when it comes to this law that we have the opportunity to discuss now, then the essence of the changes that were defined here were somehow to be put into three groups. The first group are mistakes, I understand that there were errors in the title, I was greatly intrigued by the name of regional development because now it's from the Ministry of the Regionals going to the Ministry of Regionals. And I happen to be asked by a journalist if you were the Minister of Space or Space Development. My first answer was spatial, the board says spatial. So let's go get that ironed and iron it. The other thing is some things that should have been defined, because the processes that took place in the ministry had already been the same before, so these amendments and the laws we iron. Let's say when it comes to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, we were there in 2014, praying that when the law will be amended to erase urban inspection, since 1.1.2014, there is no urban inspection, so now is the opportunity to do so. It is equally good that when it comes to energy efficiency in the building industry, it is related to that ministry that is really now embedded in this amendment and the addition of the law. When it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, these are also some of the processes that take place, when it comes to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, too, this is an opportunity to lift it up. But what's the subject is therefore the ministry of the new Ministry of Property and there's another topic when we were there on Friday the 14th when we had the presentation of these new laws, then the Ministry of Environmental and Energy was formed, and I went to read it carefully because I have the only big doubt there, I hope that time will deny me, I would like to be denied. And I said that the Ministry of Environmental Protection will have that part of energy, absolutely in the belief that the Energy and Mining Administration, which is present at the Ministry of Economy, is going to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In the meantime, we saw that mining was forgotten. And now we split the mining in half. But we're dividing in half weird, so there's a Mining Act, and in that Mining Act, it's exactly what mineral raw materials are. And then they're energy mineral raw materials, they start with hydrocarbons, it's oil, natural gas, earth wax, and then they go fossil, then they go mineral raw materials, then mineral raw materials to produce construction material, architectural building stone and mineral raw materials. And now this first thing when it comes to hydrocarbons going to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but there's one inconsistencies happening again. The current Ministry of Environmental Protection, therefore, has a part in its activity that is related to the protection and use of water that went from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Environmental Protection but in this exploitation of sand and gravel remains that sand and gravel mining will remain in the Ministry of Economy. So one part will be managed by the Ministry of Environment and Energy and part of that exploitation will remain in the Ministry of Economy. I am asking the promoter nicely, there is time to think and that as a proposing that the amendment so that we do not soon have the amendment and the addition of the law, sit down and see, the logic of things would be that the exploitation of sand and gravel because of this resource, water and sand can only be exploited by gravel near water or gravel on waterways or elsewhere, that when it comes to mineral raw materials and that part of mining will be in the Ministry of Environmental and Energy, of course you will make the most acceptable decision. Otherwise I have to say when it comes to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, when it comes to mineral raw materials, I have no doubt that all mineral raw materials could end up in the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, they won't even notice that they still have this and it would be much better and much more effective, because basic recommendations when it comes to this are from the aspect of environmental protection. We see only gas here and we see oil, but what are permanent caverns in space is the exploitation of mineral raw materials, so the exploitation of a building technical stone, that's what we see the biggest problem in space and what's even the problem of exploitation is the part that can be defined but the problem of solving the space that's left, you can't do a good recovery of space without environmental protection, so the whole, exploitation, so the whole part of the mining went into environmental protection, I don't think there would be any big problem. But let this place, there's still time, let's think again that some of the things that are normally in environmental protection don't stay in another ministry. So, in conclusion, about environmental protection, I absolutely said, and on several occasions I'm talking about my doubts and my dilemmas just for the reason that environmental protection is closely linked to the spatial arrangement and absolute sensitivity to space might be a little bit enhanced with me, but once you devast space, you've done it forever. And when it comes to the Ministry of State Property, if the Ministry is the one that will solve problems that are simpler, faster and more operational, let's see but there is no ministry and there is no minister who will be able to solve it until there are no listed assets and around these procedures, think a little bit about not turning out to fit all and ultimately no one is answering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3712	I thank the representatives of Anki Mrak-Taritash. The first representative to report for the replica is MP Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3713	Dear Mrs. Mrak-Taristas, I agree with your debate, from the beginning to the end, because you have touched all those burning problems of state property that we all know very well about. It doesn't matter to me whether it's called a fund, AUDI, DUDI or it's going to be a ministry, but the fact of what you've pointed out, what I've been talking about here all along, and for years at other functions that I've been on, the state doesn't just know what it is, but that the state, the moment it finds out what it's dealing with, it's complicated the situation for people who are operating on the ground who want to put that same property into operation. And it happens every day, it's a daily problem for all of us. You've been and you've worked with the Ministry, you've been and you've been a minister and you know all these problems well. And there was a noise in communication between the state's attorneys, between agencies, between cities and municipalities, and in a way to book property owned by the Republic of Croatia, to manage DUUDI, the current, future ministry, to register the particles as Branko Hrg spoke entirely unparcelian, that we had an unsettled cadastre on the ground. And I'm afraid this ministry works when it works. Just to do better, I will support the law and let the ministry be formed but let it start from the beginning, let it systematically list the property, let it respect the spatial plans of the units and cities that they have given consent and opinion to, and that these areas that are of great interest not only to the cities but also to the states are finally put into operation wherever possible in the opposite are the cancer of this society's wounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3714	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3715	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. My colleague Klaric, therefore we also cooperated under other conditions and in some other circumstances and aware of both you and I the problem of property. And I might say two sentences, I'm using this opportunity as it relates to state property and to its own property in the making of spatial plans, which was common practice. There is a spatial plan, and there is never enough tendency to be as many construction areas and as many areas as possible for construction. And then what does it look like? The countless cases I've had the opportunity to see seem to be the next property, so the land where the state's property is even becoming a green area to make it up elsewhere. We put a provision there two years ago in law when it comes to DUUDI that the opinion must be given to DUUDI when it comes to property only to protect the state property. Because you know any of us at the head of any ministry must treat this business as it does at home. There's no one here who doesn't have a sad story of his own. When I was head of the ministry, I needed a space to archive, and the most logical thing I could do was talk to DUDI. And then after a long, long conversation and everything, I was offered a space in the center of town for the archiving of some 1,000 squares where it would only cost two million kunas. Of course it absolutely didn't come to mind and we found a place near Jastrebarski that was also a state and we found us. So it's not a problem when you have an archive once a month to take it to Jastrebarska where it cost significantly less. So the point is, according to the state property when you manage it, you have to treat it as your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3716	Thank you for your response. The next representative to report for the replica is Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3717	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Mrak-Taritash, in his presentation with which he is most truly agreeing, states that it seems to me that you have said it is not clear until the end how and how the ministry and what is written in Article 23 and which performs the professional training of members of the board of directors, supervisory boards and management of companies. And you've been a minister for many years, and you've worked at the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, and that our ministry also conducts expert exams for construction workers and spatial planning either for designers or for supervision. The Ministry of Administration shall conduct expert examinations for civil servants in the state administration, local self-government, and shall conduct the Ministry of Justice for judicial examinations. And I will remind you that 6 to 7 years ago, the Ministry of Economy conducted training for members of the management and supervisory boards of public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia. And then interested persons who met the requirements of professional training were registered and trained to do so. I think that was included, the Faculty of Economics in order for persons who intend to report to a board member and a member of the supervisory board of a particular public undertaking owned by the Republic of Croatia to have a certificate, has the confirmation that it is qualified to exercise supervision. In this way, it would like to raise itself to a higher level of governance of public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia that care and care for state property and would then report to the competition later, and would choose them as members of administration and supervisory boards. And I think it was very good, and I pointed out in my replica that it wasn't a good thing to end it. So I agree with the return of this procedure and thus descends in quality management. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3718	Thank you. The answer to the replica of MPs Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3719	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I can tell you, my colleague, once a minister, always a minister. And we were in the same ministry, so it's something simpler. So I'm usually a person who absolutely loves order and I like that when some kind of process is finished to bring about, to put on a diploma. My kids can tell when you graduate from dance school Mom likes to see it's over. And if that's the case, and if that's the way it is, let's see. In other words, it means that members of the supervisory board, members of the company’s assembly, will pass a certain education, after that education will receive a certain certificate and I assume that the contract on work will condition that education must pass at a certain time, that they must obtain a certificate as provided for by civil servants relating to the expert examination. So when you're receiving someone to the ministry, you tell him that it can be, that the condition of the expert exam is, or the state exam that it is, and that within a certain time, it has to pass. If he doesn't pass, there's a lot of trouble. If I remember correctly, and there are colleagues who know exactly what I'm talking about, that at one point there was an action to see from the ministries that had not passed the exam, the one who had not passed the exam had time to pass the exam. So I guess the idea was that members of the trade, or members of the assembly and the supervisory board would pass through education and then get a certificate and have a deadline to do so, and if not, it could be because it's a system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3720	Thanks for the answer. And the representative who answered the word is MP Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3721	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, here I am going back to the training program and the conditions that are now being installed in the department's section. Here and I personally completed this corporate management project... of the boards of directors and supervisors seven, eight years ago and I can say that over two, three months of that training at the Faculty of Economics to get enough elements for a man to be able to work quality as a member of the board of directors or supervisors. This started with the appointment of public tenders, but unfortunately, the previous government immediately resolved people after they were appointed in public competitions. And we see nothing disputed that such training is done within the Ministry because here we also know for other forms of training that the competent, resolute state bodies carry out training, give certificates and in a better way define and standards, control processes and even for the students themselves believe that it was cheaper because then the project was, the program was quite expensive about 20,000 kunas cost for a single person. And as for the second part, the main part of your exposure would agree. Of course this is the Ministry of Construction, and through work, it's certain that a lot of these things will need to be laid down, put in order. But in one part of your presentation, you pointed out in essence whether or not we needed such a ministry, we don't need it. However, I would only remind you of the State Property Management Agency. Here's a plan about four years ago at this time where the government then announced a practical sale of about 4 and a half thousand housing units, hence state property, and they announced an action plan to join the state budget of about 1.3 billion kuna. We know in the meantime, here it was four years ago what happened to the agency, how it worked. We saw there wasn't even a property register. We've seen that we don't really know what's listed, or what's... We don't know about the individual property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or who's using it. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Therefore, it is more than justified that such a ministry works and that, at a higher level, these things begin to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3722	Thank you. Replicate response, MP Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3723	So I have already answered in the replica to Mr Bačić about these certificates, professional exams and everything else absolutely acceptable. I will carefully monitor whether this is the case and how it will be the fate of it. When it comes to real estate and when it comes to sales, you know that you could sell me like I said in my presentation, you need to know what you have. And we need to make it clear that this is really a place where we need to make it clear, unlike private property, which in Croatia we know very, very well about the fact that as soon as there is an announcement of a tax, real estate taxes, absolutely people keep an account, even know that they are transferring, that there is a knowledge of who the owner and the rest of the state does not know what he is managing, and that should be said clearly. And my doubt is in it. So, I absolutely think it's so no matter what the body's called. That body has to be operational, it has to work and it has to know what it controls. There's no luck in calling the ministry and calling it the most important ministry if he doesn't know what he's dealing with. I see another message here, and I must say that it is generally acceptable for me when it comes to the Ministry. You know, when you want to send a message that's important in one system, which is important in one country, it also forms its own ministries. And then that's where I see that message. But there's no luck if you don't know what he's running. He can be the best man in the world. First and foremost, it really needs to be given for a time and all energy should be on the recording of the property, even on record and know where the dispute is. In one law we passed and said when there was a dispute between the units of local self-government and the state regarding whose property, and the property could go, it was about detention and purpose. It can go into detention for purpose, it can be the subject of sales, and this will be internally resolved. So there's even this problem of whether the property is owned by the municipality and the city, whether it's owned by a particular ministry and then it's the Ministry of State. So we have this sequence, a series of problems. I think the time has come for us to work this out.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3724	Thank you. And the Club of Representatives of the SDSS applied for participation in the debate and on their behalf the representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3725	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues I will state here the position of the SDSS Club on the proposal to form the State Property Ministry for State Property Management. So with all due respect to colleague Mrak Taritash, who certainly has one undisputed great experience and knowledge in this matter, it is quite clear that she is right when she says that the elemental thing and what the conditio son qua non condition without whom you can't work in the ministry is if we don't have a list of property that we know what we master. And she's absolutely right about that. But we will still support this initiative, because we think that the value of the property covered by this legal solution, or the proposal to form a new ministry is so large that it needs to be raised to the level of an institution called the ministry and organised, structured as a ministry. And because the practice that I'm going to talk about later is the local self-government unit that says that only the ministry, obviously only the ministry can resolve and introduce order and flow into the woods of uncoordinated inter-resor rules that make it difficult, and life shows it, which makes it difficult to use state property in the right way. And we think it's a real shame that and that a misdemeanor was made which wasn't formed in the package a month ago and this ministry was formed and that we didn't already form it when we formed the entire government. Some data suggest that revenues from state property this year, so in this year there are little less than a billion and 800 million kunas, which is huge money. It's mostly income from profits or dividends, so it's included in the sale of Conchar, the Imperial. So it's a very large income, and it's just saying that control over such large funds should be controlled by the Ministry's institution in our view of things. As previously said in not so far away history, we see that we have been looking for solutions for years and that we have largely evaluated in these solutions for managing state assets. Today I'm talking about the ministry, and it was actually a controversial Croatian privatisation fund. The Croatian Privatisation Fund was abolished on 31.3.2011. Instead, the State Property Management Agency came to life. And this whole AUDI idea actually comes down to faster, easier and cheaper management of state assets. That's how it was supposed to be. When DUDK was founded, he did not fully manage the entire state property. Since 2013, it has been said that the government has finally decided to introduce order on state property management, but that, in practice, as it has been said very badly, and that a more recent way of managing state property should have benefited from the emergency parliamentary procedure, the proposal for a law on governance and availability of state-owned assets and the law extended the powers of the DUDI, and the AUDI was abolished. So it was then claimed that state property was scattered across different institutions, and that neither we knew what we had nor what it was worth, so we didn't make a general list, a recapitulation of what property the state had. Of course, we do not have to point out that the result is lost benefit, nontransparent management and decision - making, and much of what should have been avoided in the end. Today's road to the Ministry of State Property has been routed by the transformation of the Agency for the Management of State Assets of the former Croatian Privatisation Fund, and the new system that makes up the DUUDI Centre for the Restructure and Sale of State Property. So this speaks of a constant permanent attempt to find the most correct model for managing such large and huge assets as untapped state property. And that's why we think it's an acceptable solution for us, and we think that for these very reasons, it should be covered in the organisational model of the ministry. There are other reasons why we think so, and these are experiences with practice from the field of life units of local self-government that are not very stimulating. So when, for example, There have already been speeches, municipalities are seeking the right of service or the right to build on state land owned by the Republic of Croatia, and there are spatial plans that have already been resolved, there are projects, etc. Then it starts in DUUDI. And that stalemate and the resolution of such cases generally takes place on average for two years. So experience suggests that for at least two years, the process of requiring local self-government to resolve services, the right of service, or the right of citizens on state land for more than 24 months. In addition, experience suggests that there is a discrepancy between laws by various resolutions. So, let's say with the Forest Law, we have an unfortunate thing that the Forest Administration has not yet adopted to this day a regulation defining ways to isolate forest land and make available to local self-government units so that they can build infrastructure facilities of tourist character. And that's the reason, and that's for saying that there's got to be some kind of institution that's going to coordinate between the corridors and just remove this kind of thing. The mayors of the municipalities I contacted say they have a very big problem with abandoned property in such a way that they need to de facto maintain it and it creates additional costs. The problem is that they are burdened by this because they cannot put them into function as they wish and what needs they have, so because of the lack of compliance of certain papers within state property, projects that may be able to bring certain benefits to local self-government because of the formal reasons and the fact of non-compliance of inter-resor rules fail and the units of local self-government suffer great damage. In front of the future ministry, there will be a big question and an answer to the question of what about the property that has been taken away from people who have had to leave their homes due to war accidents and the state has registered as the owner of the property, so what about it. Many would return, many would go to certain private investments, I can't because today it's state property. That's the case in Lica, that's the case in the Zadar hinterland where the state registered on the property of people who are now in the status of returnees. It is true that in practice there will be a big problem and a catastrophe that is not arranged and does not work the way it should, and we also think that the grantine will not be exactly some sort of flow thing to solve property relations, we are already on several occasions talking about it. Our proposal would also be a little more concrete, we would say and suggest to the ministry that the possibility is that up to a million kuna property decision-making will be brought down to the county level. We think that then the decision will be much simpler, that communication with local self-government units will be more direct, easier, and we think that it will be some first step towards decentralisation of a system. And otherwise we're all talking about the need for decentralisation full of mouth stories about decentralisation. We have one experience with DORH, it turns out that people say on the ground that DORH is a narrow throat in solving certain things. It was said here that the commissioners know what kind of trouble they have with the cemetery units of local self-government have with the cemetery, and when the disputed commissioner shows up he wants to plan to wall the morgue then there's the fact that the municipal state's attorney is not competent, he sends the county to a peaceful dispute case. Then the county DORH comes forward and says, "We're not in charge, please report to DUUDI, and then this whole thing stretches, and then this building permit and project documentation expires." So these are some things that, in our opinion, this next, this future ministry, this establishment unit of the government needs to be resolved. And there are high expectations from the people who will try to unite all these problems in the ministry, look at all these issues and find the best solution. We think that so far, I have to say here that so far experience with Mr. Boban is very good, we think that man has done well in things both in this short period and in the conversation with him has gotten the impression that he is absolutely bartering with matter, but we cannot expect the DORH to do something that can't be done, or that man can't agree with regulations that are not in his jurisdiction and are realistically and objectively holding him back to being more effective in his business. We think that DUUDI, or the future ministry, needs more capacitated, educated people, people who are verifiable to solve these things, we think that the DUUDI is sub-cated, and that is one of the reasons why they have not met the desired, desired goals that have been set before them. All in all we will support this concept, we think that this ministry should be formed, that the problem should be put under the hat of the ministry, and if it is true that it will be Mr. Maric that minister I think that knowing him, I can also show a certain belief that he will be very serious, very hard at the start of solving all these problems. So we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3726	I'd like to thank Agent Horvath. The first representative to report for the replica, MP Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3727	Mr. Horvat, I withdrew an individual debate for the reason that we've already exaggerated a little over time, but I have to replicate because in the part where you mentioned cities and municipalities and there's some sort of a thesis, not just in this debate about state property, so here's Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, part of it. I don't know why he's so worried about cities, municipalities and local self-government units. I don't know why if the interest of the Republic of Croatia is the development of the economy why land within the scope of, business, industrial zones, not those invented on paper alone, but those in office would not already be put into operation in cooperation with local self-government units, at their disposal to place the land in some kind of function. There are absurd situations on the ground, what you mentioned by the State's Attorney's Office, to register a 10, 20 thousand squares particle of which is only one small piece per spatial plan until '91. was in agricultural land and they simply enlist the whole congratulatory, no one is responsible for it. Nobody's answering because the rest of the land that's supposed to be for construction purposes can't function just for that reason. And then the State's Attorney's Office that the matter would be even better asked by that unit of local self-government to pay for the parcel so that this particle would break into smaller parts and that it could be put into operation so as to be two states, state states in the country, I guess we all work in the same interest. I don't see any reason to suspect any of the mayors. And by that, I think the greatest control over everyone in this country has these people in local self-government, from state audits, from constant applications, from investigations, from the media, I don't know what not. I guess we're all in the best interest of development, economics, land, I guess we've finally started to prepare ourselves spatially, I guess we've all started to do this catastrophe and garland that I don't know when it's going to work out in this way, given the cost. But let's start with something and let's not doubt the people who operate in the field and live with their citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3728	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3729	Dear colleague Klarin, I absolutely sign what you said as a representative of local self-government you are most invited to discuss the problems of how the availability of state property works in relation to local self-government units. This could be a good start to the debate on decentralisation of local self-government units and all other aspects of decentralisation, but this is a very important thing because you who do so in your self-governments know very well what problems you face and how much energy you spend and how much time is going around because we haven't figured out some things that we should have done properly in previous times. That's why I think we should ask about this matter experience, when the ministry is formed, we should ask the experience of the unit leader of local self-government and then sort of implement it in the work of this ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3730	Thank you. The next representative, i.e. the rep representative, is Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3731	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I picked up a replica in the part where you mentioned DORH. In the sea of today's information related to the election in America in one of our press, and its owner is quite often mentioned there is an article that has avoided a little attention and it is about the great success of the DORH court in Washington, which managed to win in the arbitration court against the Croatian state where an investor, an American-Belgian investor, sued the Croatian state. And he sued her for the reason that one unit of local self-government, absolutely not important which, promised the investor something on state land, the investor had some paper on his promise, sued the Croatian state for $32m. And the verdict was in favour of the Croatian state and the subject is your next, that according to international agreements, no matter how I say so, it betrays you from the office, from some municipality information that you are married to someone who is not suited by the Croatian State. And so, in the management of state property, because when it comes to property, all contracts need to be taken care of, everything that's involved in this situation. I use this to commend, to commend the DORH and to commend my former ministry colleagues. We, too, wrote in Croatian what we translated into English, interpreted everything because we cared about judgment in favour of the Croatian state. It's on the portals of one of our own, one of our newspapers. It's good to read it, and it would be good for someone who's going to be at the head of that ministry to read it a little bit and see what needs to be done when you have a bad situation and you have to protect the interests of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3732	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3733	So I didn't speak here against the DORH. Of course DORH is a basic institution that protects the interests of the state and there's nothing there. The DORH is here to protect the ownership of the Republic of Croatia in all elements. However, the fact is, and also on the board, we talked about it once with the DORH people, and they admitted themselves to being stifled with a mass of objects. They've admitted themselves to working in unconditional conditions. They themselves admitted that some of them had so many items at work to disappear on the table rather than on the floor holding it. Thus, the DORH is an absolute institution that should absolutely people do their professional work, but society did not give the DORH conditions to do the job and gave it huge, huge tasks. So that's maybe, I didn't say that message clearly enough, definitely the DORH needs to help do his job protecting state property in the highest quality way.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3734	Thank you. Do the Committee’s rapporteurs want to take the floor, or final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3735	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the promoter, I therefore thank everyone for the opinions, suggestions and suggestions in this debate. The most justified of all natural interests and your time has also led to the formation of a new Ministry of State Assets. I think it was almost unanimously said that we need the highest level in state property management and that's the ministry. That it takes insight into the entire state property and the new ministry that will bring it all together is certainly a very logical move. Of course, cooperation or, as the law states in those articles in each ministry, the participation of individual resolution ministries is understood, i.e. they are necessary because, as this ministry would know about the management of agricultural or forest land without a resolute ministry, with apartments without a resolution ministry, with stakeholders and shares without a ministry responsible for the economy etc. To underline in one sentence the importance of the Croatian government's management of state property. I will inform you that the government has determined and appointed coordination, a special government co-ordination for state property which is so far as special coordination has not been at each, before each government session, that coordination will consider all acts, both documents and laws and other regulations that go to the government. On the other proposals only the shortest, I will say, I will look back at Mr Grbin's debate that said that in a particular segment, the section of the ministry in charge of and Croatia is overlapping if the Ministry is the new Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society but when the articles of the 25th current law are read on the part of the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society and Article 10(2) and (3) which speak about what is part of the work of the Ministry of Administration in developing information and communication technology, connecting networks that exist and connecting the databases between different bodies of the state administration. It seems not so, that what remains in the Ministry of Administration is mainly about the state administration and connecting different databases and networks that exist. Around the Ministry of Economy, it is said that leaving energy practically remains only the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. This is absolutely not true, the ministry still has industry and trade and consumer protection and public procurement and some other segments and in this part of the mining that was spoken of and spoken of by the respected representative Mrak-Taritash. In talks with the ministry to monitor the exploitation of mineral raw materials. In the area of the so-called solid raw materials, so clap, gravel, stone, cement, lime exists in the RH 608 exploitation fields and a total of 64 fields, so about 10% relating to hydrocarbons, so oil, gas plus geothermal water. Of course, the oil or gas site is usually in public with the right to value much more echoes while the findings of these so-called. solid raw materials are less known but here are some 140 sites that exist on the coast and islands where the architectural building stone has significant export potential and are exported across Europe. Here's a thank you to everyone one more time. We will also consider this issue once again with resolute ministries, so environmental protection and the economy, and we will show ourselves about it. Thank you again, everyone and those who will support these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3736	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Klaric has.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3737	We're closing up, and I won't be two minutes just to, since I expected Mrs. Taritash to lift the blade. That's where you messed up with the raw materials, the exploitation. Because if we're talking about exploiting any excavation of anything at a depth below 60 cm below the surface of the earth again, it's a mineral treasure, and we have it all over, practically on every site. But here's why I'm not holding Parliament, so read that part, and you'll know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2016-11-09-0.u3738	I thank Representative Klaric. I'm closing this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue the agenda tomorrow. The first item is the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the appointment of a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. Thank you. The session was interrupted in 19.56 hours. The next item is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and Other Central Authorities of the State Administration, the Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 13. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I would like to stress that the adoption of this law requires half the majority of all MPs 76 per 252. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 79 for, 41 abstentions and no votes against the majority of votes, have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment and Circumstance of Ministrys and other central authorities of the state administration.
