ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please calm down and take your seats. I begin the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Anton Anderlich, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Mr Miran Jerič, Mr Milan Petek and Mr Aloise Sok. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia at 10th and 21st points, the representative of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption at 22nd point, the Minister of the Interior, Dragutin Matej at 30th point and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council at the 31st item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to the agenda, may I have your attention, please? On 21 November 2005, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a Resolution on the Holocaust Memorial, in which a third of the Jewish population and a number of other minorities were executed, and on 27 January it declared International Holocaust Memorial Day. Since the memory of the tragic past is also a reminder of the future, I ask Members and Members to remind ourselves, with a minute of silence, of these and all other victims of the totalitarian systems of the previous century. [[One minute of silence.]] Thank you. We are moving on to the agenda of the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the sitting on 18 January 2008. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration of proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda. Mr. Lakhovnik, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Your Honor! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, we are withdrawing the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda of the Law on the Ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. On the home working body, the majority supported the amendment of the Zares Group, which addressed the risk of introducing a government anti-corruption officer with this convention, who is not actually foreseen by this Convention, but specifically says that an independent body, an expert anti-corruption body, should be provided, which will also be autonomous. And given that the amendment has been adopted and that there is no longer a disputed provision in this Convention which, in our view, was contrary to the spirit of this Convention, we withdraw the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda and believe that there are no obstacles to the State assembly voting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you. The withdrawal was also proposed by the LDS Group of Members, which is why this remains. Mr. Skolcz, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you very much. When we proposed the withdrawal of this point, we came from the fact that the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted our proposal that this ratification on the Committee should not be considered at all. This proposal was adopted on the Committee last week and therefore, at some point in time, this material did not have an appropriate report. In only one part, the content of this ratification, as discussed by colleague Lahovnik, is problematic. In this part, the Committee of the National Assembly on Foreign Affairs has prepared the basis for deciding on this material at its extraordinary meeting. At the same time, he withdrew those disputed provisions of the law on ratification, which was pointed out by the Service of the National Assembly of Laws. However, I would like to point out to the general public that there is still a vague question which authority the State of Slovenia will make known as the body that will lead the anti-corruption policy. Not the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, nor the representatives of the Ministry of Justice could say this today. That's why I don't think there's any need to insist on this withdrawal. I believe, however, that it is imperative that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at this point also state, in accordance with the convention to be ratified by the National Assembly, which body will be designated by the United Nations as an independent body in these efforts to reduce corruption. I have the impression that the Government still wants to play the National Assembly and the public because it did not know or wanted to say the question on several occasions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you. The proposal to withdraw from the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption has been withdrawn. The Zares Group or Mr Trofenik have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u6	All present! In the Parliamentary Group, on 9 January this year, in accordance with the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, we proposed that the National Assembly should hold a consultation referendum throughout the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of 14 provinces or the division of Slovenia into provinces, in accordance with the proposal of the Government, which is subject to the law, to consider this law at this meeting. As the decision on our proposal for a referendum is included in the February session under the National Assembly programme, we are convinced that it is pointless to consider a proposal for a law that may eventually be called for by a referendum and various substantive definitions or views. For this reason, we propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the 17th item of the proposed agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, first reading, be withdrawn from the agenda of today's meeting. And since this point is therefore closely linked to point 18: The bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council, this point also withdraws from the agenda until the definition of the referendum proposal or the referendum is reached. It is true that there is a fundamental law, a bill on the establishment of landscapes, a fundamental law from which virtually all solutions to the entire package of provincial legislation are derived, and yet we do not object to the fact that we are considering at first reading at this meeting of the law on the jurisdiction of the provinces, because it is only possible to still influence it by discussion. What might be the subject of a referendum decision, however, is unacceptable to our deep opinion that it is to be included in today's meeting. Therefore, once again, I conclude, we propose that, in accordance with paragraphs 64 and 18, paragraphs 17 and 18 be withdrawn from this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Trofenik has rushed a bit because I haven't opened this point yet, but he has. The Zares Group proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law establishing the provinces and the draft law on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Trofenik already explained this proposal. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Minister. Then you will have a group of Members after 3 minutes. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I propose that you hold a debate on points 17 and 18 at this meeting, and I also propose that you confirm this point and therefore consider it appropriate for further discussion. In fact, these two laws represent the whole package of legislation, so they are two of the whole package of legislation and the opposition has been constantly demanding that the whole package of legislation be considered now. Today, the whole package of legislation is also on the table and these two laws are being judged in this package. This treatment is also necessary, I think, because it is possible to supplement the relevant legislation, including these two laws, through consideration, and ultimately raises the question of the establishment of the provinces, the decentralisation of Slovenia. I believe that, in fact, we all agree that the decentralisation of Slovenia is necessary. Last but not least, I believe that this National Assembly has also followed when it has taken decisions on the change of constitution and has allowed this debate and this project to lead to this extent, as is now the whole legislation here in the National Assembly. That decentralisation of Slovenia is essential, that more coherent regional development is needed, and this setting up of landscapes makes it possible, some indicators also say. If we just look at gross product growth in the last ten years, then we can see that this growth is extremely positive in Slovenia, but measured at the level of the statistical regions, the differences in gross product growth over all these years are increasing. These laws have also been presented twice to the general public and, in accordance with constitutional provisions, the municipalities are those established by the Constitution to provide for the exchange of their citizens and citizens. This has been the case twice. These two laws were also confirmed by a large majority in the State Council and, last but not least, we have dealt with them with representatives of the municipalities, i.e. with the mayors last week on Friday and they have practically fully confirmed this project. I agree that there are still some dilemmas in these two laws, including the border and some solutions, but I think that it is possible to remove these dilemmas within the national assembly procedure, but this debate is therefore necessary. I therefore once again call on and propose that the National Assembly hold this debate and also approve this legislation, which is appropriate for further consideration. That's the only way we can get to the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm opening an application for representatives of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Contic, please. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Social Democrats we support the proposal to withdraw these two items from the agenda, i.e. the draft law on the establishment of electoral units for the first elections in the provincial councils, which is the result of the first withdrawal, this is the draft law on the establishment of the provinces. We are convinced that the reasons given are that it is necessary to define first the referendum requirement or the proposal to hold a consultation referendum, that this is the right way. To decide on this first and then to discuss and decide on these two laws. In doing so, let me draw our attention to our position immediately. In the event that this is accepted, we will make a certain effort in the Group of Social Democrats to complete the consultation referendum with questions that would be of some kind of a sending nature. The answers would give us a clue as to what provincial legislation and how many landscapes citizens and citizens, voters and voters in Slovenia want or want to think about it, and perhaps at the referendum they will attach it to. Given that much had been said by the Minister about the content of the provincial legislation, including the meeting of the President of the Government and him with the mayors, and that the President of the Government had said there was a moment of truth coming there, and he also said that the rejection of this legislation could be cried out in the future, let me say that, therefore, it is so much more important how we will decide today on this procedural proposal. This means that we would first allow a debate on the referendum and then a debate on these laws. And since the President said that this would be the moment of truth, it is only right to point out, perhaps in a sports jargon, that it would be pointless today to get a yellow card due to procedure and then on Thursday or Friday another yellow card due to content. And if I conclude with this sports forecast, I can say very clearly today that you should be very careful how you decide today on a procedural proposal. The non-acceptance of this procedural proposal means the non-support of the Social Democrats' Group on Key Law or the vote on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Pece, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! Thank you so much for saying that. Not only because of my colleague's announcement in front of me, it would make sense for Members and Members to overcome so much wisdom in their decision, and if we are truly willing to approach the quality organisational structures of the provinces once and for all, then today is the moment of the decision. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we firmly believe that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has already made some unacceptable mistakes in the past. The first was unequivocally the one that clearly indicates that neither the legislative nor enforcement branch of the past, especially from the period of development and expansion of local communities, has learned nothing. If we had some ten local communities back in 1994, we see that we have 210 in this year, that no enlargement has led to new, better, more favourable positions of local communities, even though we have listened to them for 10 years and a few years by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, how much this has affected the reduction of centralism within our country. First, according to our assessment, it is unacceptable that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not least the National Assembly, still does not want to agree to the content that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as the highest legal act, needs to determine the number of future provinces within our country. According to our assessment, this would be the only good basic guarantee that it would not also come in the area of landscapes, with every exchange of current authority to increase the number of landscapes and thus create confusion. On the other hand, we know that we do not have co-ordinated funding on the one hand, on the other hand, nor the tasks to be performed by future provinces under this Title. The support of a group of unrelated Members, named Lipa, will go in the direction of the proposaler not so much due to the question of the referendum, but on the basis of respect for those citizens and citizens, whose main importance is the content of future provinces, which will tend to do so, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that if we are already establishing the provinces, then the provinces should be with the powers, the sources of funding and should represent some long-term form of survival within our country and be a clear answer to the question, and again and again, an ever-increasing centralisation within our country. [[...]] The proposed solution, as proposed by the Ministry of Žagar, is unfortunately not going in this direction in our firm conviction. It is a form offered, unfortunately, without content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Janc on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honourable Minister. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party will certainly not support the proposaler's withdrawal today, in my extremely important subject matter - we have been talking about it for at least a decade. I believed that it was also the will of the National Assembly to try this, according to my assessment, an excellently prepared material, which botched many consultations, within the parties, within Slovenian municipalities, mayors, municipal councils and so much material that was processed at this time for this legislation, which I think is important for the faster and more consistent development of our beautiful Slovenia, and obviously there is no real will. At the last meeting on Friday with Slovenian mayors of all political options, where there was also a meeting with the President of the Government and the Minister, there was almost a hundred percent support for this legislation. A hundred percent support for this legislation! Does this voice of the mayors of Slovenian municipalities mean nothing to you? Are these not our citizens and our citizens who want to take a step forward in some matters? Obviously, you, sent from these areas to the National Assembly, do not listen to the voice of the people what they want in this regard. I am convinced that such a delay obviously harms Slovenia, faster and more consistent development. And this is not what the Government, the National Assembly, says so much about the decentralisation of Slovenia, but obviously with figs in its pocket. We do not want what Europe already has. The referendum, however, is a story of how current policy is unable to shoulder these responsibilities, so we are transferring this to the citizens' decision. This is, in my opinion, a poor journey to the National Assembly, to this policy that we have to make excuses for citizens, and what do they think about it. The citizens sent us to the National Assembly to decide on their behalf and on them. And this is also part of the country's legislation. We will certainly oppose this and do our utmost to adopt this legislation, as has been proposed to the National Assembly, as an important point for which we have many hours of debate, in which we will certainly hear such and different arguments. We hope to get through this first step. However, until final coordination, much will have to be done between us, between the coalition and the opposition, and a common solution will be found for my historical legislation in this mandate of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Puksic, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party will not support this motion for withdrawal of paragraphs 17 and 18, the law establishing the provinces and the law on electoral units. Colleagues and colleagues! When a person listens to this, citizens and citizens cannot really think that we are implementing or implementing some of this farce in this legislation in this National Assembly. On the one hand, Slovenians and Slovenes, municipalities and municipal councils, mayors, all democratically elected representatives of the Slovenian people are in favour, and on the other hand, you are doing some demagogy here. For the first time, in December, when the government came with three laws, you yelled and squabbled, and we want the other three laws. Now that the government has also drawn up the other three laws, when they are so coordinated, when what needs to be done, debate and possibly add something, correct, change, and say they should withdraw. Even more, we'd like to have a referendum in February. If you would like to have a referendum in February, you should want to discuss this legislation in January, elsewhere than here, in the National Assembly. But you won't. Some people have political prestige. Colleagues and colleagues, do you think you already have a new mandate, a new government? You don't! One detail, one little thing you are still missing - only the autumn 2008 elections will have to be won. But believe that the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members, who will vote against the establishment of the provinces on Friday, will write in capital letters that the will of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will not be realized. From 1990 to 1992, the Demos set up the country. From 1992 to 1996 the congregations. One Pache speaks of the lack of development now that we have 210 congregations. Please! Citizens and citizens of this country have decided to set up such congregations, and yet they are always right. And the proof is that they made the right decision. From 1996 to 2000, we were preparing to join the European Union and NATO. From 2000 to 2004, we entered the European Union and NATO. What about from 2004 to 2008? From 2004 to 2008, however, the opposition was all through a truly destructive and major task, which it set along with the change of constitution in 1996 in July, here in the National Assembly, did not complete because it was something completely different. But let's do it. But I don't know, I don't think you'll be able to sell this demagogy to your mayors, your constituents and voters. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Trofenik on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. It is normal for us to support the withdrawal of this item from the agenda in the Group of Members as proponents of the withdrawal. It's an artificial dilemma: but decentralisation yes or no. This dilemma is set by those who obviously do not want sincere decentralisation. Honest decentralisation, however, depends on quality solutions. We plead for the best possible solutions, because for the proposed solutions proposed by the Government both in the first part of the package and in the second part, this cannot be claimed. Of course, we are talking about citizens or mayors and municipal councils. But the consequences of regionalisation will not be borne and are not intended for mayors and municipal councils, but for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so it is necessary to ask them what they think about the fateful transformation of the country as regionalisation should actually bring, and which should also be brought about by sincere decentralisation. And that's all this is about. For nothing else. However, not only do the applicants ignore the experience or knowledge of the domestic profession, which points out the non-professional and unacceptable solutions covered by these proposals, but the proponents also ignore all the positive experiences of the foreign, which have extensive experience in the area of the second level of local self-government if you want regionalisation, let it be organised, let it go to financing and what else could be listed. Of course, a fundamental mistake was made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not to be shown by good will, but by some kind of indiscretion or miscalculation. The first law to be transmitted to the National Assembly is the creation law, which is the answer to the number of provinces and the size. All other laws, on jurisdiction and on funding, and on elections of organs, at least some, and more, are the result of the first decision on what the provinces will be, how big and how critical a mass they will have. Let me get this straight. In our parliamentary group, we will support the withdrawal of these two items from the agenda of today's meeting, not at any cost, as this is essential if we are to listen to the opinion of citizens and citizens and then continue in accordance with their decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Školč, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much. At the LDS, we've always thought that it doesn't matter what comes out of this blacksmithy and that we'll be okay with whether it's spiny or flat. That is why every time things came to the decision-making process at the National Assembly, we expressed our concerns if we thought that things weren't completely settled and we were always calling on the Government to offer complete legislation, which is what we have to say at this point in time, and some deliberate legislation, which I doubt we can say that we have. We will also support this referendum, or attempt to postpone this legislation, mainly for the reason that we believe that certain things need to be worked out with regard to categorisation and also with regard to the regulation of the regions. Issues such as these call for a vote against. It is therefore important for us to have as broad a consensus as possible in this process. I do not take these requests for postponement as possibly anyone else but a tactical question when we share the yellow boxes and let us keep the discussion going. Only a green and red card is available as soon as the National Assembly decides on legislation. At this point, we are approaching this point, and I believe that it is necessary to decide either for or against. Even if the referendum initiative is adopted, it will still be a dilemma in terms of whether the legislation is good enough to support it or not. I'm gonna go ahead and say it's not. And it would be good for others to say how they intend to proceed to a potential referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the proposal for withdrawals. Before voting, however, I ask that you check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Mr. Jelinčič, you haven't checked in. Unfortunately, we're not opening the reappeal. Thank you for checking in, so we're moving on to a decision. First of all, we are deciding on a proposal to withdraw the proposal for a law establishing the provinces, first of all, from the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We decide on the proposal to withdraw the bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council, the first consideration, from the agenda. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly to extend the agenda by proposing a referendum on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. You received the proposal for enlargement by letter dated 25 January 2008. Would you like a representative of the candidates for the referendum? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian national party has tabled this proposal for a referendum for several reasons. Surely one reason is that the government has not told us anything about the Treaty of Lisbon to citizens and citizens. The document was hidden or hidden or not even delivered to the National Assembly for a great deal of time. When we got it, we first got the English version on 360 pages about and just maybe 20 days ago the Slovenian version. How can a person get through this documentation and only how can he make a summary of the matter if you can’t actually see, examine, and read that text in such a short time. Slovenian citizens and citizens have learned nothing about this Treaty of Lisbon. No one has told them that the Republic of Slovenia is, in fact, losing part of its sovereignty, that the voting machine in the Council of Europe is no longer so strong by Slovenia and that, given the enlargement of Europe, Slovenian Members are losing their power. Given the same number of remaining Members and the increased number of Members in the European Parliament, this means that Slovenian votes do not count as much as they were before. Furthermore, the Treaty of Lisbon allows for enlargement without end. In this case, Slovenia, as an economically well-standing country, will have to pay for all the new underdeveloped ones, while in itself will pay for the underdeveloped Bulgaria, Romania, Poland and similar matters. I don't think it makes sense for the Republic of Slovenia to lie so far or so deep and tones, but when we know that inflation is rising, economic growth will slowly slow down, so that I won't say less, but it will stabilise and the money will simply not. And we're not gonna take care of our own people, but we're gonna take care of strangers. It's for strangers again. Once in the former Yugoslavia we took care of 2 million underdeveloped people, now we will take care of 200 million underdeveloped people. Which is probably a little worse. That is why we have tabled a proposal for a referendum, because we believe that such an important decision must involve the whole of Slovenia. All citizens and citizens need to be asked what they think, and I think that this is the only meaningful and right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to speak as a proponent of the ratification law? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm opening the application. Please, everyone who wishes to speak on behalf of the Group of Members, please sign in. Mr Potz on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Group of Social Democrats firmly believes that the Treaty of Lisbon should be decided in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, I would like to highlight two. We regret that the agreement on when to put this item on the agenda in order to justify and enable the necessary debate was not between the parliamentary groups and not even between the President of the Government and the parliamentary groups. This agenda item shall be classified on the basis of the College of the National Assembly. I did not object to it myself, but a classification was made without a serious discussion on the basis of a request from one of the members of the groups. And second. I would like to say that it would be useful for you, as a proposal for a possible extension, to explain why you are suggesting that an extension is necessary. For we believe that the prepared content of the question at the referendum, as prepared by the Slovenian National Party, is not in line with the law on referendum and human initiative. Thus we also understood the two opinions which the Legislative and Legal Service has given to Members and Members of Parliament. Therefore, it would be good to explain why you think it would be necessary, in the light of such an opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, that the Committee on Foreign Policy last week, with one vote against the Treaty of Lisbon, and that, as far as I know, today, in one vote against it, the decision proposed to vote in the referendum is inappropriate, why it must be taken by the National Assembly and that it should be decided accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group also opposes the inclusion of this item on the agenda for reasons already mentioned. Tomorrow we will discuss the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon. Against this, a referendum issue was created by the Slovenian National Party. We agree that this issue is in fact not in accordance with all the laws of law, but it is also unnecessary to raise such referendum issues at this time, because we firmly believe that such ratifications do not belong to the referendum. There is also a guardian to vote by a two-thirds majority on this point of the National Assembly. The path towards the enlargement of the European Union, which is to be prevented by this referendum issue, is extremely long and difficult, and at that time this issue is not absolutely relevant. In addition, I must point out that today the Committee on Foreign Policy, when discussing this proposal for a referendum on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, delivered an opinion by a majority, only one voice opposed that such a referendum was not appropriate. For this reason, once again, I stress that our Group of Members will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Pece, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We have before us a proposal for a so-called referendum, a proposal that I believe all the Members and Members present have obtained from the Harvard Society. This society has provided them with the position they had before us today. We have before us the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which is negatively defined to this proposal in terms of lack of expertise, and in particular in terms of lack of knowledge of the matter. We also have before us the position of the Government, which I must say that I am sorry that it is only in writing and that the representative of the Government has not identified himself here today in the form of a speech. I would, however, like to point out in the context of the group of unrelated Members of Lip that dimension which I think must be very important in the context of our decision today. We must not create an illusion that the said act, which is before us today, speaks only of enlargement or that the act before us today is against enlargement with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. If the proposer succeeds in this area, then, of course, no expansion anywhere in the eastern Balkans or the east would be possible, both in Serbia, Montenegro, the whole Eastern Balkans, and lastly Macedonia, it is a whole set. But that's one dimension. The very important dimension that we need to take into account in our decision is that, within the framework of the Protocol, which is the Treaty on the EU Treaty and the Treaties establishing the European Community, EU institutions, in which Slovenia is a member, are also established or defined. Last but not least, we know that we have a number of important things to do within the EU institutions, and last but not least, we have a Commissioner, whom the Slovenian public and the professional public value extremely in Slovenia. Finally, this act also refers to the European Parliament in which Slovenia is established. But what is most important in the decision of the group of unrelated Members, called Lipa, is that we will not prevent the debate on this important issue. On the part of the three Members present, we will do the same as we did in the framework of the government's starting points when the debate was held in the National Assembly. We propose confirmation of the debate on this referendum issue, especially in terms of enlightenment on this issue, and in particular in the form that we will have before us a document protecting our country the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of European Union law and, last but not least, the powers, rights and everything resulting from the Treaties. So our support is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Bajc on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary and representatives of the government. Certainly, before that time, we Slovenians and Slovenians decided to join the European Union as one of the equal states. And we did this at the referendum, not with a small result or outcome of this referendum. I am sure that citizens and citizens, as well as Members and Members, know that a legal act will have to be adopted to regulate the work and functioning of the EU institutions. And we will all remember that some time ago we also adopted an EU constitutional treaty, and not with such a small number of Members present, I think there were only a few of them against the adoption of this constitutional treaty. And given that the Constitutional Treaty has not been implemented or ratified in all EU countries, it has probably also been decided that it is necessary to change the matter and to draw up another legal act which will have to regulate the work and functioning of both countries and the institutions of the European Union. Against this background, Members of the Group will oppose the proposal to call for a referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you. Before I conclude the debate, I would like some attention. I rightly conclude from the debate and the presentation of the opinions of the members of the groups that there is no understanding of the procedure ahead of us and of what we will vote on. The proposal for a referendum was tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposer completed or corrected the referendum question. No one else can decide on the appropriateness of the referendum issues as the National Assembly. It's just like the content of the law. And there's something else that needs to be highlighted. Before we vote, debate and vote on the Treaty of Lisbon, the question of the referendum must be resolved. If you refuse to discuss the proposal for a referendum, it means that we will not discuss and vote on the Treaty of Lisbon at this meeting. I think you understand. As a result, it was proposed to extend the agenda. If you reject this proposal, the Treaty of Lisbon will fall automatically from the agenda of January. However, the proposal needs to be discussed. At this point, you will only vote on the agenda, not on the proposal for a referendum. This concludes the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We are therefore moving on to a proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. The vote to extend the agenda is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 63 votes against one. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the agenda has been extended, which will be considered by the assembly as the 30th point of tomorrow's meeting. That concludes this point. On the basis of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to the request of the 19 Members and Members Group that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences, EPA 1860, following an urgent procedure. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to request a presentation of the position. Mr. Skull, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you very much. We believe that the President's College has failed to take into account some very important things regarding the amendment of the law on offences. First, there are such major changes and changes to such content that it is certainly not possible to say that it is something small, because a good quarter of the law's substance is changing, which regulates the contents of the offences. Secondly, it is fair to say that this law does not comply with our rules of procedure as regards the serious consequences of non-acceptance on the functioning of the State, on the interests of the security or defence of the State or on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, which is a condition for such a procedure. Finally, it is worth saying that these changes are of such a nature and are so wide that they require a wider discussion of other professional people, or judicial associations, of law schools. Not all of these stakeholders have had or have had the opportunity to intervene in this debate. We estimate that the Ministry of Justice is trying, in a rapid manner, with the assistance of the National Assembly, to cut down substantially into the system of penal policy in Slovenia for no real reason, without the need for a broad debate, without everyone thinking about the consequences, and even in a way that these solutions would be inconsistent with other legislation already adopted. We therefore oppose the procedure and ask you to support it, which means not to remove the law from the agenda, but to allow it to be dealt with and accepted in a regular procedure, because such material, which concerns potentially virtually everyone not only of us, but of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request. We're moving on to decision-making. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences shall be dealt with on an urgent basis. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, for whom 44 votes against 29. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 29.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The assembly will consider the draft law in accordance with the urgency procedure under the envisaged 14th item of the agenda. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as you received by reference and with the amendments adopted. Let's vote. There are 71 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 7. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the agenda of the 35th meeting of the assembly has been set. With this, I interrupt the meeting of the choir, which we will resume at 3 p.m., that's five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written applications from 32 Members and Members, of whom Janka Vebra is a mag. Tomaž Štebeta, Alenka Jeraj and Marjetka Uhan are clear that these are questions of local importance. In accordance with Rule 243 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the questions sent were addressed to the ministers who would reply in writing. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. The answer to the unanswered questions raised at the 33rd and 34th meetings of the Assembly will be to the ministers present. The Minister of Public Administration and the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will answer the question at the next meeting. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. I ask Members and Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 5 minutes. Regarding this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Finance Dr. Andrej Bajuk at 16:00, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Mr. Iztok Jarc, Minister of Culture Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs Mrs Marjeta Cotman, Minister for Education and Sport Dr Milan Zver from 3.30 p.m., Minister of Public Administration Dr Gregor Virant, Minister without a licence, responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia Dr. Žiga Turk. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government shall provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not yet answered in the course of business. I'll give it procedurally when I'm done with this paragraph. We are therefore moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Even earlier, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. Someone raised their hand for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In accordance with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to draw attention to the use of the Rules of Procedure and the word belongs to me as soon as I wish to speak. You have already mentioned that Rule 243 of the Rules of Procedure speaks of the fact that the President of the National Assembly can say which question the Member wishes to raise to the Minister is of local importance. You did so in my question, which I announced in time as a question to Minister Žerjav, Minister of Transport, and to the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Podobnik, regarding the development of the State's plan for the construction of Škofljica. So it's a national location plan! This is a question that concerns at least 11 municipalities along the E2 106 road, a state road that is crucial for the development of 100,000 people. I ask myself: On what criteria has it been decided that this is a local issue? For it is, however, a fact that we are saving a large part of the country with this transport connection. And also the railway line Grosuplje-Kočevje is not a local track, but is a national railway. I think this is a matter of really inappropriate conduct and decision and compliance with the Rules of Procedure on your part, Mr President. Let me add that as early as 2 July 2007, it was also by the Government or on its behalf, by the ministries of agriculture, for the environment and for transport, that media were not allowed to attend the meeting on the same subject in the municipality of Škofljica. Today, I note that the President of the National Assembly does not allow me to raise the question in public: When will the national location plan for the Shkofljica Oblast be prepared? What variant is selected and how will this option be connected to the motorway network? And of course: When will the updates of the railway line Grosuplje-Kočevje begin? I think you, Mr President, are obliged to explain what you have taken into account in your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u36	Mr. Weber, if you want anything more, come to my office and I'll explain everything. Bridges, curbs and similar local affairs are of local importance. Mr. Pece, you have a procedural proposal. Just please, not exploit or abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in order to open new questions, but only for what it is intended to do. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! I have already, I think, three weeks ago, in the course of the College debate, reached, with the full agreement of the representatives of the political parties present and not least of you, Mr President of the National Assembly, that the Government of the National Assembly will inform which ministers will be present at the meeting, so that we can see to which ministers we can even raise a question. The representative of the Government, present at the College, also committed himself to this. All I want, on behalf of the Group of Non-Members with the name Lipa, is for the Government to enable us to make use of the Members and to carry out their duties. One of them is also asking questions from Members of Parliament. I had a personal question in connection with the economy in the Republic of Slovenia and the institution of development, but unfortunately I cannot ask it, because neither the Government nor the College of the National Assembly until Friday, when it was time to report the question to the Parliament - no one knew that the minister mentioned today would not be here, as did the other half of whom you said. First procedural proposal: Mr President, I want you to talk to the head of the cabinet of the President of the Government, who was present or with the Secretary-General, I apologize - at a limited college and who gave us a firm assurance that Members and Members - not only members of the group of unrelated Members of Lip, but everyone else - will know who they will be able to ask and what. Otherwise, it all goes together, at least in my opinion, on a comedy where the ruling Members know who will be present and the opposition Members do not know and become completely irrelevant to their questions, because they cannot even stop them. On the other hand, Mr President, I would also like to refer to the selection of questions raised by Members as the leader of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. When counterpart Zagorac announced the question in connection with the privatisation of Paloma by one of the ruling parties within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and although 71% of the ownership by the State, this issue was prevented by the Minister. Mr. President, I believe and I know you'll hurry. But I would ask you to remind the government representatives of this town and invite them to a little more seriousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u38	That's right. As early as 6 December last year, we drew attention to the problem that will arise and is already emerging at the time of the Presidency, when the question of Members and Members is on the agenda, such a absence of ministers. And at that time, it was ensured that the Government would inform us in time, because these absences in the Presidency are usually known to the Government months earlier. And even at the last college, as you mentioned, it was promised, so the government representative assured that it would be the same day, so he would send a list of missing ministers on Friday. Sorry we got that this morning. And I have already replied to the Government, in which I expect a more corrective attitude towards Members and Members, and I hope that the Government will fix this in the future. We are now moving on to asking questions from the President of the Government. First, Mr Miran Potrč will ask the Prime Minister a question on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u39	Mr. President of the Government. I believe that you too know that a number of current issues have arisen with regard to the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. I do not imagine that the question that I am asking today will be the most important, but Slovenia, citizens and citizens of Slovenia must care and they do not care how you represent our country in the European Union. That is why I have received some indignant calls for your claim that Slovenia was the first member to preside over the European Union for the sake of an iron undertaking. So, 20 years ago, Slovenia was supposed to be behind the Iron Curtain, which you will probably agree is far from the truth and far from historical facts. As President of the Government, you are obliged, in our belief, to represent Slovenia as a whole, all citizens and citizens, not the truth that may suit you and the ruling coalition. There is no doubt that Slovenia was not a member of the Warsaw Pact, that Slovenia was not a member of any military bloc, nor of the SEV, that, given the historical facts, it is unacceptable to say what you said. We want Slovenia's success in the European Union, we want the European Union to know Slovenia according to its achievements, after it has indeed been the first to enter the European Union, that it has taken this decision at the referendum, that it has taken a decision to take part in NATO, that it has also entered the single euro area because of its achievements in the economic and political field. So that we have something to boast about, not to display our history unilaterally and unobjectively. That is why we ask you, Mr President, that you are aware of your responsibility to historical facts and that you represent all citizens and citizens of Slovenia in the European Union, not your view of history. I ask you for an explanation, for an corrective response, and above all for a different course of action in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you so much for asking. I agree with you only in one statement, namely that this is a very irrelevant issue and a irrelevant topic when it comes to leading the European Union, and it is the last one I have expected on this subject in this high assembly. I don't usually use this term iron curtain either, and I may have repeated it once, but it is used by everyone else who talks about Slovenia. And speaking of historical facts, it seems to me that this term is quite accurate. The concept of the Iron Curtain was first used by Winston Churchill to mark the new divisions that took place in Europe after World War II in 1946, when he said that "the Iron Curtain fell across Europe and stretched from the Baltic to the Gulf of Markets". He had in mind the division that arose after the end of World War II to a camp of Western democracies with free elections and the market system and to a socialist camp without free elections, without a market system and without any high protection of human rights. In 1946 neither the Warsaw Pact nor NATO and this terminology did not refer to military division or block division. Albania has not been in the Russian camp for a long time either, and no one considered it a country on the democratic side of the Iron Curtain. So I don't know why this concept bothers anyone, because the whole of Europe knows our history, knows where we were 20 years ago. Everyone knows that 20 years ago Slovenia was not independent, that it was part of Yugoslavia, more specifically, the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. That we did not have free elections, that we did not have a market economy, that we did not have all the guaranteed political freedoms and human rights. Finally, 20 years ago, Mr Potrč, the political authorities have decided on repressive measures - I can list one of these bodies if you want - to be listened to, to be shut down, to be arrested. We had courts that were tried without a defence. We had institutions that carried out secret house investigations, all on the basis of some political directives. If this is a country - and then it was Yugoslavia, not Slovenia, but Slovenia was, unfortunately, part of this country - on a democratic side, then these are some distorted concepts. So I would really like to ask that we don't teach all of Europe's history because I think they know it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much. As Slovenia sees Europe, it depends to a large extent also on the representatives of Slovenia and on how they represent Slovenia in Europe. And that was also why I mentioned your presentation of the Iron Curtain. It would be correct to focus only on this claim and on this issue, but not on other things. I quoted your statement that Slovenia was this 20 years ago, not in 1945, and between 1945 and 1988 there is probably a difference in your opinion. I also went to read among others Slovenian recent history, which I advise you to read for yourself, and I will not quote any passages that tell you about what happened in Slovenia in 1945, 1950 and 1988. I also went to Wikipedia to read about the Iron Curtain and the Cold War, and Mr President, it would be right to try to represent Slovenia after what it has done since 1988 and 1990, but not to try to present it in a negative light, taking into account facts that are historically not accurate. I am sorry that you insist on this, but it seems that you prefer the ideological evaluation of this fact and that you are turning to the past; unfortunately, I expected you to say that this was indeed the wrong explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u45	So, as far as going back to the past, honourable Member, I did not ask this question and start this debate, you asked this question. So, you want to go back in time, I hope not in practice. Because Slovenia was part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 20 years ago, people lived or lived in a much more difficult situation than today, every day there was speculation about a military coup, there were such and different tensions. Practically at that time, this Yugoslav crisis reached its peaks and to a large extent generated a situation and mood in Slovenia, which led Slovenians to decide to step out of this association and to do so by voting on plebiscite. I do not know whether any democratically elected official in Slovenia today is really responsible for defending those times. I think not, at least not at those points where it would be totally unjustifiable, by using the concept of an iron curtain as a sign of ideological division in Europe after the end of World War II and it was created before military blocks were formed. This is completely historically indisputable. So I would really appeal to all of us to spend this time discussing the real problems we have in this country, but not to argue about what the concept means to us and what Europe means to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Notwithstanding the opinion of the Prime Minister of the Government, anything other than what he claims is irrelevant, I propose that, under the second paragraph of Article 246, the National Assembly should hold a debate on his claims in the European Parliament. I say that the Iron Curtain after Wikipedia on the basis of Mr Winston Churchill's statement is a parable of the sharing of the world in the Cold War with Western democracies and the Soviet Union of the occupied and economically and militarily dependent Eastern European countries. That's how I read it. Maybe I'm reading it too carefully. Perhaps it is not important for the President to read accurately because there are better general qualifications, but it is said in Wikipedia. Why would that change the fact that we refer to history? As I said, in Slovenian recent history, I read a chapter about the state and situation after 1945. Mr President, historians acknowledge that between 1945 and 20 years ago, what you said happened in Yugoslavia at the time and Slovenia in particular, and that it is simply not possible to compare the whole period with one single sign. We in the National Assembly commissioned a historical study of the key characteristics of Slovenian politics in the years 1929-1955. I have marked texts that say that 30 years, 50 years in Slovenia, something has happened in Yugoslavia. It would be right that the bad, and many were bad, but also good, and there were many good things, we take into account objectively, but we do not speak unilaterally. I will allow myself, perhaps unfriendly to you, to quote the opinion of the President of the State, Dr. Danil Türk. He said, "We must look for the truth, and we must discover it in all its dimensions. Displaying partial truths as the only or the most decisive is not the truth, but a morally questionable thing to do. The enforcement of its own judgment, which has no basis in scientific research and is without legally compelling arguments and legal proceedings, is violence against the truth, opinion and law." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Porč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will now ask the Prime Minister a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, on 18 December 2006, you said: "The government is doing well. No referendum, no veto." I say, "You'll be able to boast again because you don't." But is the government really doing well? Those were the words you uttered just after the first head of your government fell. Chief Minister Petty Officer. After the first phase of social reform has been adopted, with extremely restrictive measures or laws. The government has decided on a social policy based on savings. This comes from government strategic documents. " Rationalisation will continue in the area of development priorities. In research, education, active employment policies. By 0.7% of GDP, the share of the budget in the social transfers system will be reduced." And I do not want here, Madam President, to answer that the reduction of funds is a logical consequence of the reduction in unemployment. This reduction is due to the introduction of a single indexation of all social transfers. In 2007, it is expected to save between €7 million and €25 million in social security, as well as pension and disability insurance. These are government evaluations. Dear President, you have decided on such a policy because in 2006 you estimated that the period of relatively high inflation, which led to the introduction of a fairer system of evaluation and payment of transfers under the previous Government, was over. But since the economic reality was in the second half of 2007, unfortunately, slightly different, I ask you: Why did you allow your policy for more than a year and a half to reduce the level of social security? I'm not gonna say life, I'm gonna say health. And that, despite the fact that in the Coalition Treaty you have clearly and loudly realized that you will not reduce the level of social security. Last year you couldn't be brave enough to admit guilt and correct the mistake. 45% of older citizens and citizens today face poverty. 47,000 children in our country already feel poverty. I say that the package that we met with the Members in the course of the January extraordinary session is a poor traveller, I will say, a social policy or a long-term policy. One euro more, which will be received by the average three-member family per month, is difficult to fix the social distress that this family is facing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u51	So I didn't hear the question. Can we hear the question? These were statements, mostly wrong, including the numbers wrong. But there was no question. Can the Member ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u52	Would you like a refill? Here you go. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The Honorable President. I believe that your cynicism is really borderless, but if you'd listened to mine properly, I'd say a three-minute statement would also have a question in it. In addition, we owe the honourable President, Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, within a time limit of business, to provide you with a written question which we will raise at the meeting. In short, President, you've been asked twice the question I've been talking about. And allow me, if you don't understand, to say simple question lines that we are addressing you Members of the National Assembly to clarify or to try to clarify to citizens and citizens why you are doing what you are doing. Why are you running such an arrogant policy? Mr President, please answer the questions raised. Let me repeat: Why did you allow six months, six months and a half, to see the social picture deteriorate in our country. Did you know what measures have been taken under this Government? You knew what these measures meant for the social situation of citizens and citizens. I believe you know what 6% of inflation means for a family with monthly income, and I'll say 400 euros. What does this situation mean for the 200,000 Slovenian pensioners and pensioners who have, I will say, pensions of less than EUR 400 per month. I ask you clearly and loudly, Mr President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: What will be the policy, social policy, in our country, which will mean a departure from this restrictive or ignorant policy that you have led so far? What are you going to do - tell me in particular what measures you will take to improve the social security of citizens and citizens? You can also list some laws that I know are already being prepared by individual ministries.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u55	The claims are no longer valid. This government has not ignored the situation in the last six months, but has also taken the necessary measures to mitigate the negative effects of inflation, particularly the negative effects on those in the lowest income class. During this time, poverty did not increase in Slovenia. In this mandate, the percentage of those living below the poverty line has decreased significantly. It is true that some pensions are low, but they would still be significantly lower if this government did not align pension growth with wage growth and were therefore strongly criticised. As a result, the social situation of pensioners in this mandate has been substantially rectified in view of the situation as it has been or would have been if it had not taken this measure. At this point, only one country in the most developed core of the European Union has a lower rate of poverty in the European monetary area. That's the Netherlands. All other countries in the euro area have a higher rate of poverty and are more diversified. This is no comfort for those who live with low incomes, of course, but if any government has given special care, it is this government. I also thank this National Assembly for having adopted these measures days ago, virtually unanimously, including by your votes, if you were present. So I doubt that these were bad measures, otherwise they would probably not have been voted for. I can list them again, but it probably doesn't make sense because you've dealt with these laws and we'll monitor the situation further and react if necessary. So this accusation is completely out of context. I also noticed some regret at the beginning of this performance by honourable Members, if the sentences were cancelled. I am pleased that there have been smart compromises, agreements in all sectors where this social conflict has threatened. And the government, through measures that it has taken, has contributed greatly to creating the atmosphere of some constructive social dialogue within which these arrangements could be reached. Where it has negotiated directly, however, it has fallen to the point where this agreement, which has been adopted, does not jeopardise macroeconomic stability in the future. But we'll be happy with any proposal. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] about what else we can do. [[...]] This is essential, this is what those who are affected prefer to hear and experience, [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I will also propose that a broader debate be held on the response of the President of the Government in the National Assembly. President, you wanted me to read your question again. But then why aren't you fair enough to answer the question? I did not know what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would do in the future in the area of social policy, except for cheap populism. You haven't told me any action in your response. You didn't mention the laws that are being prepared. I know what these laws are like. That for free kindergartens not eligible for all citizens and citizens, there is another measure behind this measure, which means a significantly more tightening or a substantially larger new scale, yes, a new free education scale, which is very restrictive. So, one measure - confused, behind one measure there is another measure that goes towards saving. And that's what's problematic. Savings, these are your guidelines under the government stability programme for the coming period. And allow me, Madam President, when you are so eager to sneer or boast about the three laws you have come to Parliament for the January session. The first law that touched the pensioners was like a patch on the wound for those injustices you caused to the pensioners by the Transfer Coordination Act. The social situation of these persons deteriorated significantly in 2007. Large groups of pensioners have even lost the right to a protective allowance. You put these people on the brink of survival with your politics. There were calls, there were initiatives, there were requests for you to listen and do something. Even your coalition partner, DeSUS, has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a bill to terminate this law in order to remedy the injustices. And you said in December, "No, we're not going to talk about this!" Therefore, do not say that concrete proposals or calls do not come from our side. You know, Mr President of the Government, when you talk about success, about the good situation of Slovenes and Slovenians in our country, I will remind you that the minimum wage is below 400 euros. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Tell me: How can a citizen or a citizen with 400 euros spend a month of quality? These are the questions that require specific answers [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you. On the proposal by the Member of Parliament, Mrs Žgajner Tavš, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to her parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. He will now ask the Prime Minister a question from the Member States, Dr. Matej Lahovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u59	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Recently, in Slovenia, we have faced important economic challenges that have an important impact or impact on the lives of all peoples and populations. It is the privatisation of some companies, such as the Triglav Insurance Company, Telekom, even the Sava Insurance Company, it is the fight against corruption, the issue of inflation and the like. At the same time, we are witnessing increasing differences within the ruling coalition as to how to address these issues. The president of one of the coalition parties is talking about not leaving the barn empty. The president of the Second Coalition Party, the Minister of Finance, is talking about what would be the most embarrassing barn. But people are increasingly concerned that everything is really turning into some sort of "stand" without a development concept. Therefore, I ask you: In all these events, should it not be worth considering the technical government or even the call for early elections? From day to day it's more obvious that at least two coalition partners would want to leave the coalition, but it's also obvious that you won't do them any favors to throw them out, and they won't do you any favors to go out alone. And in a way, we are all citizens and citizens of the hostages of this, and this is certainly not good for the country from a developmental point of view. Let me also draw your attention to some cases where it appears that this sense of uncoordinated coalition, such as corruption and customerism in state companies, is being exploited. Surely you are familiar with the case of Casino Bled, where the state councilman, a distinguished member of your party, also supervises the administration and also advises this same administration for very large fees. At the same time, for example, the casino Bled, which, in 90% of the ownership of the Slovenian Compensation Company, sold the land near Lake Blejska, at an elite location to a private company at a very low price; and even more, when the private company rented the loan, the casino Bled itself guaranteed as a wedding for this loan. In short, obviously there are increasing irregularities in a whole range of state-owned enterprises, and I believe that you are not familiar with all of this, but we expect you to act. So I would like to ask: What measures do you plan to take in this regard? And above all: Do you not think it would be good for us to consider the technical government? As in nature, there are clear signs that spring is coming, so can slowly, [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] By the behaviour of the coalition partners, we judge that the elections are coming. [[...]] But the problem is that we have serious economic challenges ahead of us, so I want to know what you intend to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you so much for the questions. Mr President, before I answer that question, I would like to point out that Members with the abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly in the third stage are asking additional questions that I cannot answer. Earlier, Mrs Tavšev asked a question and claims that were absurd, did not hold, I reject them, but I could not say that in the answer because I did not have this option, and this has become a permanent practice. Let me point out that, in previous mandates, the President of the National Assembly has strictly prevented this from happening if the opposition has tried to do something like this. As for Mr Lahovnik's question and these insults of specific irregularities in a company, I believe that if there are irregularities to be investigated. Now that I have heard this, I must say that I hear it for the first time, but I will ask whether there are competent authorities who need to investigate it, regardless of who the suspect is, which party is in or in which control council. We're gonna have a hard time doing this here. As far as privatisation is concerned, I would like to recall the question raised by the Member himself at the beginning of this mandate, in which the Government was accused that it did not intend to withdraw, that the state did not intend to withdraw from the economy and that the Government was preventing it. For two years we have listened to this observation, and now in the last year, we are suddenly listening to the opposite of what we have been called upon to do. Not before, not now, we didn't do this because of these calls, but because we think it's a good thing. We have adopted concepts, we have a coalition treaty, we have a normative programme of work of the Government and decisions are being taken and implemented accordingly. Everything that is going on at this time in connection with privatisation has either been approved by this National Assembly, and was previously coordinated at a coalition meeting - if a coalition does not agree on a solution, it does not come on the agenda of the National Assembly. And even when it comes to the concepts of the privatisation of Telekom, that was the case. The Privatisation Commission, which shall act on a call for proposals, shall be composed of experts who have been proposed by the coalition parties, including the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS; they are better aware of the stage in which this procedure is, as I am, because no one is informing me of it. And until the solution is proposed, it doesn't make sense to coordinate these things. And I doubt that this opposition is the most concerned, but I know they are happy when there are differences in the coalition. There were always differences in coalitions, as there were also coalitions; if there were no differences, there would be one or two parties and there would be no coalition. As far as the proposal for a technical government is concerned, you know what the constitutional option is: collect 10 signatures, propose a new mandate holder - we may even support you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u63	Thank you very much. President of the Government, you know for sure that we didn't even support you at the end of last year when the vote on the trust and you didn't get it on our side. I asked my question because it is now obvious that even those who supported you at the time do not trust you. More! The president of one of the coalition parties speaks publicly about the suspicions of corruption and the collection of commissions relating to the privatisation of Telekom. Believe that even in the opposition we must be concerned about what is happening, especially because it is more than obvious that even the political top of the coalition, whatever you already have, is not meeting. During the entire term of office, I have warned you that it would be good to withdraw the country from the economy in a transparent manner. And I have reminded you that the sale of the Capital Society and the Slovenian compensation of the company should be public and transparent. Thus, we are constantly dealing with the so-called closed opening of tenders, where tenders are opened far from the public's eyes and certain doubts arise in this regard. And these doubts are now expressed by even coalition partners, the president of the coalition party. Therefore, it is more than obvious that this government does not even trust itself. And once again, it is clear who did not support you at the end of last year. More and more, it is clear that even those who supported it at the time do not support it anymore. Therefore, I think it would be good to think about a common expert government. Of course, it is also more than clear that you have enough votes to block this or that if you really want to and think about it, because I believe that you are also aware that you can no longer carry out some development measures that would be necessary for Slovenia to initiate this initiative yourself. In fact, we have only seven votes so far and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u65	Dear Member, I have launched this initiative in the autumn. And then we watched two weeks of scared faces of the opposition. Everyone was afraid that the responsibility would actually have to be taken. Well! But you can do it again. As we say, you need ten signatures. The Constitution is perfectly clear. You have seven, and I think someone else will sign. There are now several parliamentary groups in this National Assembly each week anyway. It won't be hard to get ten signatures. It votes and you will see whether your claims hold or not. However, as far as it suits you better, it is not checked that every month suspicions are being heard at a time when you know that the government has no time to deal with them. This looks like fun, but, as you can see, half of my colleagues and colleagues are missing here because they're on other obligations. Instead of some support, we are experiencing such proposals. This is legitimate, but it is not exactly a reflection of some high degree of political culture in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u67	I would like to propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly should hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government. Especially because he was speaking some of the untruths. Indeed, some Members, when referring at the end of the year, we are very clear at the time in the debate - and this is evident from the magnetogram - have already told the President of the Government that if he really does not see any more appropriate vision of how to manage this country, he should simply give up. At least from my scan, you'll see it very clearly. And I've already told you exactly how many votes you'll receive and how many you've received. However, as regards substantive additional matters, I believe that it is particularly necessary to discuss the situation in the country. We are dealing with inflation, the negative trend on the stock market, the coming recession, and obviously with completely different ideas about what to do with the state property that this country has. Opinions, apparently even in the coalition, are very different. The statements through the media, which citizens and citizens are listening to, are in some ways quite unusual, they are part of a special terminology, and in this regard it seems right for us to have a debate. By the end of this term, it has been quite a few months, and in some ways citizens and citizens are getting the feeling that everyone in haste wants to clean up every piece of cake and prepare for another period. Above all, it is increasingly obvious that no one seems to really care about public finances anymore. This is also evident from some laws - for example, the law on diocese diet is already in force by Members of the largest government party by entering into force as of 2009, 2010 in the mandate of the next government. We could discuss all of this. I think she'll be welcome, and that's why I believe you'll support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Lahovnik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Jakob Preseknik will put the last question to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Honourable President of the Government. Our economy has achieved very good results in recent years, with record results last year. Economic growth is estimated to have exceeded 6%, unemployment has reached the lowest rate in Slovenia alone. For the first time, we recorded the budget surplus, took over the euro, entered the Schengen area. Right now, we are running the European Union with almost half a billion people, as the first of the new Member States of the European Union. Why do not all citizens feel these excellent results and high prestige in the international community that they recognize to us around the world? Why do we have almost full employment in some congregations and regions, while in others we have great unemployment? Why do developmental differences between regions, according to the latest data, nevertheless increase? At the beginning of the mandate, the government and the coalition set up a project for regionalisation of Slovenia. We have before us in the National Assembly important decisions regarding the establishment of the provinces for which the whole Slovenian policy and not just the government coalition are responsible. Do you think that the decision to establish the provinces is one of the key further developments of the Republic of Slovenia? What do you think the consequences for the lives of citizens and citizens of Slovenia could be for the Slovenian economy, for the equitable development of individual parts of Slovenia, if the establishment of the provinces did not take place?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you for the question, but also for what has been said again about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Let me tell you, there's no recession in sight. We may experience a somewhat calm economic growth, but for 2008 no sane person for Slovenia predicts negative growth or recession. As far as the provinces are concerned. It all tells us information that is available relatively little time. This is information on how gross domestic product per capita grew in the Slovenian regions during the period 1995-2005. In the last 10 years, for which gross domestic product per capita is available, the central Slovenia or Ljubljana region has increased the gross domestic product per capita by 88%. And the Pomur region by 53%, the Zasavska by 51%, Savinska by 69%. Now the regions that have been poorly developed in 1995 have increased further in the next ten years of developmental backlog, despite the laws adopted by this National Assembly on more equitable demographic development, despite the funds to be earmarked for these purposes, the development backlog in Slovenia among the most developed or between the centre and virtually all other regions - no region has made progress in these 10 years faster than in Ljubljana - has increased. This means that there was something missing between development instruments and we all know that they are landscapes. If Slovenia does not carry out this regional division, these trends and backlogs will continue. If anyone thinks anyone has the benefit of it, he's wrong. Perhaps some data show that Ljubljana benefits greatly from this centralisation, in some areas it has them. Only those who drive to Ljubljana in the morning and choke on traffic and wait on the roads will you probably tell me this is not a perspective. If these trends continue, more than half of the people of Slovenia will be crushed in the Ljubljana boiler and Ljubljana will choke on traffic, garbage, social problems and many other problems. Income may grow and problems may grow, and on the other hand we will have generations of young people born in rural areas who will once again have worse baseline opportunities in life. So, it's a very simple dilemma, and on Friday you'll be voting on these laws. I am deeply saddened by the fact that some say that laws are so bad that they cannot support them, even though they are for the provinces. This, of course, is not true, the one who does not support these laws is against the provinces, is for centralism, is that more than half of the people in this country live worse than the others. But all the rest are excuses, and this needs to be said very frankly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We are moving on to the answers to the questions put at the 33rd and 34th meetings of the National Assembly and to the holding of the meeting I am handing over to Mr Klavori because I am coughing. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u73	Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, will answer Mr Aleš Gulic's question regarding the application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis. The question should also be answered by the Minister of Public Administration, who is duly absent, and will answer orally at the next meeting as part of the remainder of the available time to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will try to answer that part of the question that concerns the work of the Ministry of the Interior. First of all, I would like to say that work has been done with regard to the establishment of the regime at the southern Schengen border. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u75	Mr. Secretary, allow me to interrupt. I would ask the Members and Members to calm down and take their seats. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you. In short, the work has been divided so that expert groups from several departments have prepared an overview of the places and points needed to close to ensure greater security at the southern Schengen border. And later, the Ministry of Public Administration, through a tender with subcontractors, implemented these measures. However, the situation is such that on local communications and forest routes 76 prisons have been carried out and put in place, equipped with keys that allow for the passage through these prisons for those persons who are authorised in small-border passes or agricultural pads. There were 13 eyebrows all over the border. I can also show you all these pictures of eyebrows that have been moved or removed. All of these eyebrows have been worn out, not used, and have not been entered into land-book permits or small-border passes as points where the border could be legally crossed. In addition, the crossing was blocked in three places, and concrete barriers were placed at two locations. As I said, you can get pictures of the eyebrows later, so you can see them for yourself. Otherwise, I would like to mention that, by establishing the Schengen border, no citizen of Slovenia was prevented from crossing those points with the SOPS, the agreement with the Republic of Croatia, before that. Thus, all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who have been able to pass and have these places entered into small-border passes or book permits, can still pass at the same points. The only difference is that there are now prisoners at certain points who use keys. I have to say about the keys, we have the use and the sharing of keys. Use is permitted for persons who own land, sharing is permitted for persons who are members of that family and for persons who are employed for certain tasks in that area. This is all recorded, certain records are kept. By 7.1 this year, 887 keys were issued in Slovenia, distributed by administrative units, and 219 Croatian citizens were given the keys, which were distributed by the police. Cooperation with the local population takes place as before. With the entry into the Schengen area, it only changed that the Slovenian police received the Schengen Information System into their hands - just before entry in September. Otherwise, the Schengen border was fully monitored in 2005 and 2006. We've only hired a few extra officers recently to get those numbers we need. We are working with the local community on the procedures that have been followed. We regularly have co-conspiracies, we have regular activity in the local environment. Police are informing the local population how it is going, and I must say that preventing illegal migration in Slovenia is so successful due to cooperation with the local population. Because we have the highest percentage of applications by the local population in relation to the number of illegal immigrants, which we then catch. That, of course, points to that. Furthermore, with regard to the issue of roads in the border area at the Schengen border, I would say that the Ministry of Environment and Space has set up, given that no question has been addressed to them, and I think it is appropriate to answer it, however, so that it is clear. Thank you, too, for the answer I got from this ministry. An Interdepartmental Working Group has been established. The aim of this group is to review the situation at the entire border and to determine if alternative roads are needed. The working group has drawn up a list of road cases where a possible replacement road would be needed. 16 of these roads have been detected. Meetings with citizens are being organised, they are being agreed on how to make this space better and how the local community is being helped to prepare documentation and to run for the European funds that have been issued for this purpose. We expect that we will also be able to provide access to homes where part of the road runs across Croatian territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? No, thank you very much. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister of Defence, will answer Dr Mitja Slavinc's question regarding the restructuring of the administrative work of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I must say, in the last 17 years, the defence system has undergone major changes. We have become members of important international organisations, such as the NATO Union and the European Union, even in terms of a revised system of military service. Today we have a professional army, we have moved from the recruitment system, and all of this has also required the restructuring of the Ministry of Defence. I must say, this is the first major reorganization. Here we wanted to pursue the objectives of doing as successfully as possible all the tasks required by membership in international organisations. This is about the new tasks carried out by the Ministry of Defence, and at the same time the abolition of the recruitment service has also ceased certain tasks related to this. This also required a change in the organisation of the Ministry of Defence. Changes at the level of defence administrations, too. You know that their main task at the time of the recruitment system was to prepare all these recruitment records and the whole recruitment process. With the professional army, that's why we've reorganised this part. In this regard, we have also pursued other objectives such as greater efficiency, rationalisation and a reduction in the number of officials at the Ministry of Defence. Thus, we have an envisaged reduction of 127 workers in the human resources plan. This will be achieved by the end of the term of office. With regard to the defense administrations, let me say we're reducing their numbers. This is also in line with the medium-term defence programme, which decreases to six. It's kind of the perfect number. This was also a lot of talk when the number of provinces was discussed and it turned out that the number of six provinces was the most rational, most favourable, but we know that it was politically impossible. However, when it comes to organising defence administrations, it is feasible because it does not depend on political will, so we have reduced this number. I believe that Mr Slavinac is interested in what this means for the Sobota of the City. Let me say that the Department of Defence will be in Maribor while the exhibition in Murska Sobota remains, so it is not an abolition, but a reorganisation. But it is true that some officials will be moved to Maribor. It is those officials who are involved in planning and it is in accordance with the working processes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u79	Mr. Slavinec, would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your answer. I was really surprised by your view that the six regions would be the best solution. I also support this, but I don't know if you stayed in the regions when you were 14, or does that mean that there was political pressure, that even in the military administrative units, there would be 14 of them, too small, whether this is where rationalisation is, and in the regions, rationalisation is not important. And let's leave it now, because the more important question is really the question that I asked him, why the administration in Murski Sobota, and even in Primorska, is overturned. Finally, there are many aspects. It's also a nationality. Also business in the language of nationality, which was provided in Murska Sobota. Look, more importantly, you're referring to rationalization. From your letter to the Slovenian National Authorities Union dated 19.12., this rationalisation seems slightly different. According to the new systematisation, from 1,253 jobs this number has been newly streamlined to 1567. It means over 300 cities, over 300 more jobs. And all these jobs are downtown. None of these jobs are in dislocated district units, that is, outside the centre. All 300 jobs are in the center. If this is rationalisation, 300 new jobs, which cost over three and a half million euros a year by the way, and that those of our employees who have now gone to work in Mursko Sobota are going to Maribor. If it's rationalization, then it's hard for me to understand. I'm asking for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you. I have to say, I don't know how you got those numbers. I must say clearly and loudly that we must reduce 127 staff in administrative work in the personnel plan. It's not the Slovenian army, it's the officials. But we will also make this happen. I don't know how you got those numbers. We have reduced the number of systematic jobs and we have also reduced the number of employees in administrative work. Finally, you can check this with regard to the planned remuneration for administrative work, and we can also give you numbers of how many were employed at the time of my term of office, this being said in December 2004 in administrative work, and how many are today, and you will see that your data is wrong. I understand you're operating on wrong data, and I'm sure it's not on purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u82	Please. Dr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that we hold a broader debate on the Minister's response to one of the next meetings. I base this on this, because obviously there are some data that either hold or do not hold. I used to refer to the data I received from a document sent by the Ministry of Defence. It was signed by Mr Albin Cocec and the addressee, I mentioned earlier to whom, including Mr Žnidaršič and the Director for Defence. If you look at those numbers and add them up, that's exactly what I said before. But the problem is broader. It's not just these 300 additional systems. This is about where and how these systematizations have been carried out. Because in Pomour we can really ask ourselves again whether in this particular case the Ministry of Defence does not consider us second-class citizens. The average large proportion of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces comes from this area. We also know that the jobs provided in this way by the Slovenian Armed Forces are very important for this area. Because of objective circumstances, even because of the economic situation of the region, these jobs are important. And this is also why so many members of the Slovenian Army are from this area. On the other hand, the number of jobs, number and size of military personnel in the area has been systematically decreasing. And everything with an excuse to reorganize. I have repeatedly warned about this rationalization. Such that these members now drive for two hours in one direction to work, they are recognised only the cost of public transport, which is not, in particular, from Pomurje to Celje, Slovenian Bistrica is not such that they can come back to work on time in the morning and in the afternoon. And in general, the administrations are now being abolished, which means further job cuts, additional job cuts and, as a result, it will be more difficult to ensure a sufficient number of soldiers. While the Minister is nodding to see fewer jobs, there will be fewer jobs in Pomour. You said yourself that some people will have to drive to Maribor. That is certainly sufficient reasons and there will be further and additional evidence in the debate that this is worth discussing, so I propose that you support my proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The Minister of Public Administration and the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs are absent, so they will be Mrs Mag's ambassador to the parliamentary questions. And Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš responded to the next meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mr. Mag. Milan Cvikl will ask the Minister of State without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! Citizens and citizens! The efficiency of the government's work and the ability of ministers to prepare projects to draw up the money we pay to the European budget by Slovenian taxpayers is reflected in the net position of the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia vis-à-vis the European budget. In 2007, we paid about €355 million, and only €347 million was paid. This means that we have paid more €8 million and that we have received €273 million or a good quarter of a billion less than we expected, as planned by the government. Thus, in 2007 we were forced to pay more to Europe for the first time in history than we got from it. For the first time, we are in the same situation as in the former Yugoslavia, when we pay more in Brussels than we receive from it. But it's not the political system. It's not even Brussels' fault. It is wrong to suppress the facts, to close the government's eyes before the facts, which we have been pointing out since October 2005, when Dr Drnovšk's president discussed the issues of effective use of EU funds. I therefore ask you: When you know that you have a deficit in relation to the European Union, after you know that you have absorbed only 347 million, even though you have planned 582 million, after you know and you are reminded by the Court of Auditors of the serious problem of small projects, what will you do? Or else. Since in 2008, 2007 we did not receive a quarter of a billion euros more than we planned, please tell the Slovenian public: Which types of projects have not been implemented [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and what will be the consequences for the development of Slovenia? [[...]] Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Jagar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Thank you, Mr Member, for this matter. It is linked to the use of European funds. If we go in order. We must first stop at the net position of Slovenia. The statement made by the Member does not fully hold. For the first time, as regards the net position, the net position is linked to the increase in the volume of prepayments from the faster development of Slovenia for cca. 50 million euros. And that wasn't planned when the budget was planned. Secondly, I would point out that Slovenia has received approximately €90 million in advances not shown in the budget at the expense of approved operational programmes for the next financial perspective. Thus, Slovenia's net position is positive for around €80 million. And these advances in the first year are meant for projects to start. This is perfectly logical and is the same for all countries. Now, here's the thing about pumping. In this situation, we must be aware that we have two financial perspectives to deal with. One is the period from 2004 to 2006, which we are ending. We have made tremendous progress here. Within this period, it is also necessary to separate the area of the Structural Funds from the Cohesion Fund. As far as the Structural Funds are concerned, I can say that we paid off at the end of 2007 for cca. 93.5% of all the funds required to draw on the European Commission with a certain time gap and more than 80% of these claims have been submitted, but more than 100% of the contracts signed have been signed, which means that Slovenia will fully absorb these funds. I see no reason not to, and none of the projects have been stopped from this title. And I must also say that Slovenia, as far as drawing is concerned, and these are probably the only relevant comparisons with other countries, is among the new members in the lead. In the regional fund there was also, according to the latest data we had, I think since October, among the first three of all members. Only Ireland, Sweden were ahead of us. It is true, however, that I can agree with the Member of Parliament here, that the fisheries, agricultural and social fund, due to the fragmentation of the projects, has been slightly worse, but I am sure that we will also draw on things there. At least that's how all signed contracts show up. However, it must be said that this was from that time when the honourable Member himself was the Minister for European Affairs. So we just inherited this scheme. And now for the new financial perspectives. With regard to the new financial perspective, I must say that the reality is lower. The ministries did not know the situation in connection with the negotiations when they were planning the budget. We had to negotiate all operational programmes with the Commission last year. And because of this, after the operational programmes were confirmed, and Slovenia were among the first, we also received these advances in Slovenia, that is, the 90 million I was talking about, which put us in a positive net position. I speak Slovenia as Slovenia, but this is not visible in the budget, and I can agree with that because these advances are not in the budget because of the way Slovenia is implementing them. But no matter what. In 2007, calls were also made for projects planned and notified in 2007 for €462 million under the approved operational programmes. This is much more than the entire previous financial perspective, which means that projects are currently being implemented with a slight delay. I'm sure things will go on in the future. According to the Ministry's 2008 and 2009 forecasts, because we have been obtaining this information right now, because we are also informing all potential consumers, they are talking about how many ministries have announced at the beginning of the spending of these funds they are planning now after all these audits. For 2008, but for a little less than originally planned, while for 2009 this forecast is even more optimistic. It is, however, a fact that individual ministries are responsible for each area from a substantive point of view, and I believe that these things will also be realized. If I may conclude. Of all the comparisons made, Slovenia will draw on all the resources it has available, both from the existing financial perspective it has entered and from those that we are running out of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u89	Mr. Secretary, you believe. Two months ago, you claimed there would be 110 million surplus. Today, two months later, we have 8 million euro minus. Mr Minister, these are the data from the Ministry of Finance I have at my disposal. According to the same methodology, by which you claimed that there would be 264 million surplus first, and now it is minus 8 million euro minus. These are the facts. And I say, "What are you going to do?" Not to explain that the situation will be better in 2009. Please tell us that you have spent only one quarter of the planned resources from structural policy in the 2007 budget and from cohesion policy only less than a third, 31%. These are the facts. The Slovenian budgets for 2007, 2008 and 2009 are based on fiction. Two months ago, we argued in this hall on the basis of an assessment that it was a fiction. Today, we can say that on the basis of your information. What are you gonna do? To say that we have a surplus in the Slovenian budget because we do not draw on European money, and that we do not use domestic resources, or because we are "sparing" on social transfers, that is not a good policy. Four billion euros of money remains in Brussels accounts. I am not asking whether the Minister of Finance hopes to send all accounts to Brussels, because they will need to be checked, there may be other penalties that Mr President of the Court of Auditors has pointed out when we were sitting alone. What are you gonna do? What measures will the Government take to repair the European funds already this year, especially because you claim to be pumping 801 million euros this year and last year you have pumped the total of 350 million euros? Mr. Minister, I think you live in fiction or you let yourself be deceived by your associates.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thanks again for saying that. I don't live in fiction, I'm very real, and what I've already told you is based on facts. As far as the old financial perspective is concerned, we have practically fully absorbed it, but it is true that there is still a need to complete those projects. As far as structural funds are concerned, these projects still need to be implemented, for example, for a weak 7%. And this year, we're going to do it on a liquid basis. As regards cohesion projects, they will be implemented by the end of 2010. I don't see why we shouldn't be. And with regard to the new financial perspective, I have also made it very clear that, already last year, on the basis of the budget adopted, we have called for about as much funding as was planned. But it is true that this invitation is somewhat delayed. And I would point to that, we're talking about multi-year calls, and it's pointless to look at these periods exactly at a certain date that also suits someone at that point. Slovenia as a whole is not in a net position because I have already explained these things with regard to the advances we have for the new period. Now, as far as these projects are concerned. We in Slovenia have in the next financial perspective from this title intended to draw on various projects. Some are smaller, they are also linked to the realisation of this social fund, for example, those led by the municipalities, but some are slightly larger, for which it would also make sense to drive them as provincial projects. That is why I believe that you will also support the landscape project, because in this part they will be able to make it significantly easier to carry out some of these projects. Let's say I mention developmental axes and economic centres. These are characteristic landscape projects that can be carried out or significantly easier to carry out if we have landscapes, so I am also optimistic as far as this work is concerned. As for another new financial perspective, I must say that the last time I participated in the competent committee of the European Parliament, I was also followed by a Commissioner responsible. There, too, these issues were raised and it was also very clear by the Commission that Slovenia was among the first leaders in terms of drawing on European funds. Of course, there was also a very clear question as to what it was like to approve operational programmes that are the basis for drawing on European funds. In a way, there have been reflections in this direction that it makes sense to enter a negotiating position some year earlier, but this is not only up to us, but also up to the European Commission. Finally, the delay in the validation of these programmes was linked to the delay in the validation of the European budget. We know these things have moved. At this point, I see no reason, of course, given all the activities already under way at this time, in view of the Ministry's 2008 and 2009 forecasts, that it would not be in Slovenia as a whole, as it has committed itself, these funds would also be drawn up. But it is true that if we look at a specific date, at that point this image can be negative, but it is always necessary to look at the whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u93	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose that we hold a general debate on the response of Minister Žagar. Mr. Zhagar, you're acting like Mr. Minister Bručan. Minister Zofija Mazej Kukovic said well in Saturday's Journal that there was a lot of deception by colleagues. Mr. Minister, the facts are clear. You can't say now that we can't look at the matter on a specific date. You said on a precise date, until zero, that 886 million €668 000 would be available in 2009. These are your numbers! You've forwarded these numbers to the Ministry of Finance and the National Assembly. And that's 500 million euros more than you've been able to draw in 2007. And the programs are only on call. And you claim that in 2008 and 2009, you will close with 450 million on average more money than you were able to draw in 2007. Minister, in 2004, Slovenia had over €13.3 million, in 2005 €16.8 in 2006 €60 million, in 2007 deficit. Mr. Minister, according to the same methodology, you have to look. In 2007, a deficit of €8 million, probably again in 2008. If economic growth is rising, Slovenia must pay more. It is therefore necessary to be much better prepared for the funds to be exhausted. But you're obviously not ready because we have a situation that's bad. I therefore propose that we hold a general debate on this issue. Let's see what we can do this year by combining projects. Only large projects will increase the efficiency of fund-raising, otherwise it is not possible. Each project requires some 10, and can also require 100,000 euros in administrative costs. And if we have thousands of small projects, it will go to dozens, hundreds of millions of euros for the administration instead of coming to Slovenia. And in the end, you said the solution was in the provinces. Mr Minister, the provinces may come to life on 1.1.2009, when your mandate is long overdue. And how will the provinces influence us to draw twice as much European funds in 2008? Explain that to me! Don't look for answers in fiction. The problem is that the 2008 and 2009 budget, as for 2007, confirms the facts, was closed as a fiction, with a large planned drawdown of European funds that did not happen. And Slovenia is in a negative position towards the European budget, as is the most developed countries, because the government has poorly prepared projects and has been holding its eyes to the facts since October 2005. These are the facts, data from the Ministry of Finance. The opposition must warn of these facts [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Member State's question to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! How effective, quality and equally accessible for citizens is healthcare in a country, of course it can be seen from comparative research. For three years now, a respected consumer organisation from Stockholm Health Consumer Powerhouse has published surveys on the effectiveness of health systems and also published research on the quality of health systems in EU countries, including non-EU countries, as well as Canada, in comparison last year. The survey seeks to answer the question of the quality of health systems in different countries and seeks to answer how effective and friendly European health systems are with their users. This covers five areas: the rights and information of patients, waiting periods for treatment to begin, treatment outcomes, supply volumes and availability of medicines. If we could be proud of the results of the survey in 2005 and 2006, when we were in the 12th place, and after the efficiency of the use of the funds according to its weight, we were even the first, we could be concerned that, based on the 2007 survey, we had gone back to the 21st place, while after efficiency we had fallen to 20th place. Thus, the correct assessments made in this mandate have been made to the Government not to cultivate the right health policy within the framework of its work. Thus, the criticisms to Minister Bručan were justified, the interpretation and then the conduct of the President of the Government to propose a replacement. I ask you today, Madam Minister: What measures will you take to stop these negative trends in the provision of an effective quality healthcare system in Slovenia, as this trend to which we are witnessing can pose a serious threat to the provision of health care rights can jeopardise the quality of the health system, which has been an example to other countries for several years in Slovenia? Madam Minister, what measures will you take to stop such a negative trend as we can follow in this study?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The quality is measured with the indicators. One of the key indicators is certainly the healthy life expectancy, including life expectancy. And luckily for us, on average, it rises. Everything that we now point to in the Presidency, where cancer and cancer prevention are the main themes, goes in this direction, too, that the difference between the expected male life expectancy and the expected female life expectancy is reduced. Today, in Slovenia, it is a little over seven years. The activities with which this can be improved are clear, especially in the area of early detection of the disease, in this case early detection of cancer. I don't want to ignore the different indicators provided by private associations, but I'll take them with a backup. This does not mean that I do not recognize that any improvement is possible in our system at every step. I will also specify in particular where we are most active. First of all, it is the connectivity of all the factors within healthcare and, above all, the institutions we have. On this we have set up work with the Institute for Health Protection, with the insurance company, with the Medical Chamber, with all public institutions, hospitals and health institutions at the level of municipalities. This is one network of key carriers that is not connected, where different data are stored differently and there is no single comprehensive system review. This is the first wound to this system. And we have, through the preparation of the national plan, which will be on the Internet as of today, that is, the resolution on the national plan, narrowed down all these different data, different views and forecasts. From this large picture we can also conclude in advance what are the key activities in order to really improve a system that will never be good enough. It will never be good enough because the expectations of the inhabitants are increasing for us and because we are getting older at the same time. And by aging comes also, clearly, a few more health complications. And for our vision we set ourselves, for our shared vision, I hope that you will confirm it here in the National Assembly, that we want to raise awareness of the importance of taking care of our own health, to organise a quality and financially sustainable healthcare system where the patient is a partner. So here are three key points. And what we are doing now in this short-term work is that we have already passed some laws in the field of legislation, and in these four months now I am speaking, of course, even earlier, and that we are now preparing quite a few new ones to come to Parliament in the coming months. In particular, the drug law is also here, because access to medicines, for example, Austrians are the best rated, access to medicines is not conditioned only by our will, and it is now conditioned that suppliers have the will to have economies of scale high enough for them to enter a country with medicines at all. For me, the best indicator is whether we go to a doctor in Austria or to a doctor in Slovenia or in a hospital, and we will judge these twenty cities. Otherwise, we have set up a world of excellence that works extremely well to somehow establish these key levels of quality. What do we want best as a "output"? Of course, when we come to the doctor, we want to know when it will be our turn, that our time is respected, and that we are a partner in this process. But it's a long story that won't happen at once. Maybe something else in addition later.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary. Of course, I would remind you that the health system in Slovenia is currently in place, I would say at the point where we face so many difficulties in implementing investments, we face problems and complications around equipment invitations. An example is the Oncology Institute. It's about unresolved issues of corruption, like the Pediatrics Clinic. We are talking about the fact that we are still observing anti-reform as well as part of the collapse of the health system in the area of concessions, including at tertiary level. Here we can see that of course the number of doctors with additional contracts as p.p. in fact, they appear as an additional supply for the provision of services. At the same time, we can witness elitism, as health services are becoming increasingly accessible to the lower social strata. Here we can meet additional offers from insurance companies offering additional insurance for the rights of compulsory health insurance to skip waiting types, which significantly interferes with the public health system itself in Slovenia. We're talking about poorly prepared legislation. Of course, open letters also serve as a warning. As an example, a public health professional college has been expanded, which speaks of us witnessing a continuous and rapid deterioration of the public health situation. There is a dissatisfaction with the letter from the President of the Investment Commission at the Ministry of Public Health that, in fact, they do not work as the President of the Commission and the Investment Monitoring Commission. And we could list it. Madam Minister, I specifically ask you, given that we are, at a very current time, a significant change that is taking place here, the dissatisfaction of doctors, on the one hand, and consequently a decline in quality and efficiency on the basis of international comparisons: What are those measures where you will reverse this trend not only in the long run, but also measures that will turn this negative trend into a positive one in the short term? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u100	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Short-term measures are also visible every day in the public media because we are very closely monitored in the field of investment. Key investments such as neurologic, paediatric progress, oncologically completed, but there are still some things open there, including a final account that will take some time. What was at stake was to be dealt with by law enforcement agencies, we submitted reports to them. But what's real and what needs to be moved on, we're driving with all the power we have. We have very few, however, because this is an insurmountable approach to investment, that some people are engaged in investments of this kind. With regard to concessions, we have made and I hope to settle the situation, not only with recommendations, including with all these monthly meetings we have on this type of issue, about how to interest doctors in working in public institutions, without happening too often these mixes that are happening today. We are also preparing now the Medical Service Act, because it comes here also because of old legislation, the possibility of the Dental Activity Act and the Company Act, to such possibilities as are certainly not good for a comprehensive network or public health system. In the national plan, we have also made a comprehensive recording and a plan for the network to move forward. So we see in five years, we see what is in the budget, and we see what is also in the area of staffing, not only in the long term, but also in the short term. What we will get from schools, from universities, what we can count on from professionals who are not very few today, and how to redistribute the staff from the center even across Slovenia. This also raises the issue of regionalisation and equal treatment of the entire Slovenian work. We have also taken many measures on the basis of reports from the Court of Auditors. The fact that we are on the backlogs that have been purely administrative backlogs, that it has gone, I don't know, 800 responses to complaints that the backlogs in various consensuss are now at a minimum, so on time, the unit isn't a year, but it's a unit of the month, and I could still list two days of what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u103	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your answers. But as you said, the life expectancy of Slovenk and the Slovenians is supposed to be one of the quality criteria. In view of the fact that international comparisons tell us about negative health-care indicators, a long-term assessment of life expectancy may also be adjusted. Therefore, I think it would be very good to hold a debate on the basis of your responses to the measures expected to put an end to this trend. In our opinion, the number of doctors who are in fact increasingly complementing their regular work with contracts is that, of course, the offer of insurance companies which offer additional insurance for compulsory health insurance, i.e. for those rights that already exist, should be included in compulsory health insurance and waiting types as one of the very large problems cannot depend on the economic situation of an individual who, by paying for additional insurance, would be able to skip waiting types. Of course, not as long as we live in the belief that we are talking about a health system that we have been growing in Slovenia for many years. At the same time, of course, this debate is also necessary in the context of the preparation of this national programme. Unfortunately, we have not been able to discuss this in the National Assembly and it may be good that, on the basis of all these negative indicators, Members can present their views on how we see the weaknesses and benefits of the current and future health system. I'm also worried that when I read your last interview, you'll only send a team to the UK to look at this system. It would be very instructive to look at the Austrian system, which you yourself mentioned and Austria, in fact, as a leader through these international comparisons, shows very great efficiency, very high transparency and also shows great efficiency in the accessibility of patients to new medicines. Therefore, I think it is important that, in your answer to my questions, we also discuss, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek will ask the Minister of Finance a question. You want to ask a question anyway. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much. All in attendance, Your Honor. You can see that the MPs of the coalition don't even know when any of the ministers will be present, so they don't hold the thesis that was said at the beginning of today's session. I therefore refer the question to Mr Andre Bajuk. In the media we have recently read a report on the planned sale of Lesna, a factory of IV boards Utiško Vrh d.d., owned by Prevent Global. Such a sale is not at all controversial because it is private property and the owner does what he pleases with it. But the intended sale does have some flaws. The prevention of Global for Lesna Slovenj Gradec, which no longer fulfils all its obligations. The buyer settled only part of the purchase but failed to comply with the contract obligations mainly in the part relating to investment and employment. The Treaty also provided for the further production at the location of subsidiaries, their further development when new investments in technology and equipment were made, the provision of additional financial resources to finance operations and the provision of existing jobs and thus social security for employees. Instead, the marketable and interesting programme of Lesne in the furniture factory of Panče was bankrupt and there are about 200 people on the road. Lesna Lip has also been bankrupt for some time. More than 1,200 small shareholders who invested part of their unpaid salaries and certificates in Lesno were duped. In this case, the Slovenian Development Company, or DSU, obviously acted as a bad owner and owner, since it did not verify whether the Lesna Lip sales contract was being implemented, as it was concluded in 2000. Despite the fact that the contract was not fully implemented, further trading with companies of the once large forest system is already under way. If we leave aside the fact that only for the daughter's factory of IV boards is offered several times the purchase price, and the buyer has repaid for the entire Lesna Slovenj Gradec system, it is not possible to pass over the fact that the control of the contract was poor or were bad intentions, that is, the performance of the contract already built in the preparation of this deal. I therefore ask the Minister: Does today’s DSU, the Society for Consulting and Management, d.o.o., which is owned by the State, consistently care about the implementation of contracts, or does it regularly report to the Ministry on the implementation of these contracts, or in the case of non-execution of contracts, proposes measures and conducts proceedings against the perpetrator, or does the Ministry of Finance have data on how hundreds of companies of the Slovenian Development Society or its predecessors or successors have been sold? I expect an oral response at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk alone will ask the question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is also absent. Do you want to ask a question anyway? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Two-ling topography in Austria's Koroška is one of the main problems in the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with neighbouring Austria. Following the decision of the Austrian Constitutional Court in 2001, things did not change much after the testimony of members of the Korean Slovenes. Before the parliamentary elections in Austria, the representatives of the Slovenian National Community signed a so-called compromise on resolving the issue of bilingual local inscriptions in accordance with the Constitutional Court ruling, but nothing has changed since Mr Haider's country chief did not accept the compromise. This issue could probably be resolved if the Republic of Slovenia put bilingual local inscriptions among the priorities in the Slovenian-Austrian bilateral relations. I am surprised by the Minister's statement last Friday that the question of bilingual topography can be relatively relative to the other problems that Austria has and that this issue will be resolved sooner or later, and that this issue has an entirely local character. I'm asking Minister Ruple: Do you really expect us to open our borders by expanding the Schengen area and that this issue will be resolved in the European spirit? In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set up a Council for Slovenians in place, as a special advisory body of the Government for the development of relations and cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians in place, where they are expected to meet regularly and together to seek solutions to the problems that the Slovenians in Koroška have. This world doesn't work according to my information. The Council met for the first time and for the last time on 16 January 2007 and established three subgroups, namely, language and cultural issues, economic issues and legal status issues. And that's all. The following question to the Minister is: When can we expect this world to become active? With regard to the notification of the Austrian State Treaty, the Minister replied two years ago that the Foreign Ministry had reviewed and conducted several diplomatic consultations on the usefulness of the notification of the accession to the Austrian State Treaty several times in recent years and that such a step had not yet been decided by the Foreign Ministry or the Government. The Minister then assured me that the Ministry was closely monitoring this issue, so I am interested and I ask: Are you thinking about doing something concrete and starting this notification process? Please let the Minister answer me at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question, which is also absent. You want to ask a question? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. I want to ask the Minister a question and I expect an answer at the next meeting. In recent days, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has made public the provision of funds in the 2007 budget for payments of agricultural policy measures. At the same time, it recognises that payments for 2007 will be paid this time with a delay based on previous years. So far, the practice has been that some of the payments for the current year have already been paid at the end of that year, so in our case farmers expected their first payments in December 2007. The Ministry justifies this delay by establishing a new information system due to the introduction of a reform of direct payments as of 1 January this year and a new rural development programme. The Ministry also commends that individual measures will be paid in full and instructs that payment decisions will be issued for areas with limited factors for agricultural production from 11 to 22 February and for the last decisions for bovine animals in early June. In view of this and in view of the delays, Mr Minister, I am asking you a few questions. What are the reasons for the delay in the payment of the 2007 agricultural policy measures? What are those technical problems caused by the new system of allocation of payment entitlements? How can the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food assess that the project is still in the planned time frame, but if agricultural policy measures for 2007, compared to previous years, already have significant delays? I am aware that the formal deadline is mid-2008, but as it is said, there are delays in relation to previous years. Of course, Mr. Minister, I ask you: Do you, as Minister, realize what such a delay in payment of the measures means? Especially at the time of preparation for this year's crop and with so much inflation. For each delay means significantly higher costs and lower competitiveness. Can you, as Minister, guarantee that the Agency will actually adhere to the latest deadline for the issue of decisions for 2007? Can you or anyone else guarantee that payments will actually be made within 5 to 10 days of the issuance of the individual decision? Thank you very much for the answers to the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Possonec will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I'm expecting an answer, too, next month. I'll ask you a question now. Due to the current arrangements for protected farms, it is in practice that a lot of farms are failing, because they cannot be shared, the situation has changed, the owners and the fact mentioned thus hinders the growth of farms, agricultural holdings or even their collapse. If people could decide for themselves whether they wanted the farm to be preserved as a whole or if it could be shared or transported in pieces, many of them who are now failing could come back to life. I expect the Minister's response next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Shirca is supposed to raise a question from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is absent. Can I help you? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u113	Despite the excused absence, despite the fact that Minister Rupl is not among us today, I would like the oral question I am asking to be answered next time. The question concerns the information provided by the Slovenian daily Dnevnik and later by the Belgrade Politics. The officer revealed the content of the stupendous Christmas talks in Washington between the political director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Mitja Drobnič, and the senior officials of the US administration. The document of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is not of a confidential nature and which has been summarised in the media, shows that Slovenia has not performed in relation to the United States of America as usual for sovereign and independent countries. The senior US officials made it clear in the talks what they wanted to be written in the final declaration of the European Union-United States Summit, although it is clear that it is only June 2008 and until then the agreements. There are also wishes regarding the declaration of Kosovo's independence and the position on the resolution of conflicts in the Caucasus, as well as on many other international issues that are undoubtedly familiar to you, since it is a revelation of a document that has aroused the public and is even referred to as an unacceptable political affair. From what we read in the media, we see what the United States of America expects from Slovenia during our presidency. And all of this shows that there is no confidence in Slovenian foreign policy that we do not have a situation in key foreign policy institutions, which is not the first time, after all, we remember the very protest of diplomats and their demands to meet with the Prime Minister and the Foreign Ministry. I ask the Minister to explain: Is it the pressure on the President and the subjugation of the interests of the United States, and how successful are these pressures? Not to mention the views of the Austrian press agency today, which also points out the inadmissibility of such a conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Ambassador Zmigo Jelinčič the Noble will raise the question of a Member's question to the Minister of Economy, who is absent. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. In particular, Pomurje is an ethnic, national, minority, demographic, historical specific area and, as such, deserves special political attention and, in such severe economic critical moments, financial support and overall political attention. In addition, it is necessary to know that Prekmurci, Prleki, and Styrians wholeheartedly chose Slovenia, defended it, and made it as much as it is. However, the economic situation is very harsh, especially the large anomaly is an abnormally increased investment activity in the trade industry, new trades are being opened all the time, while we know that the biggest trauma in the pomurska region or the suburban region is the Mura factory. It is true that the overall situation in this sector in Europe is poor, but largely because of the incompetence of managers, who are among the employees and also broader in Prekmurje unwelcome and unpopular, such a situation has occurred. The Prekmur region and the wider Pomur region are already saying what Slovenian Kosovo is saying, because they are counting and thinking that the matter is so deep under the standards of the Republic of Slovenia, that I think there is something to be done in this area; not just as in the former mandates when the presidents went to Mura, they dressed for free and then ended up at a free lunch in the Raj trade. The wall is now "under water", the Reich Inn has collapsed and it's all kind of "sugrund". Therefore, I ask the Minister of Economy: Does the State have any programme to help with the planning of the restructuring of production, the retraining of employees, the subsidisation of early retirement, the tax reliefs for the industry by critical companies, the title of demographic critical areas and generally undeveloped areas, and the assistance of some European means - does it have any plans to somehow lift this sad image of this beautiful part of Slovenia from the bad situation it is in? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Ambassador Matjaž Han will raise a question for the Minister of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable colleagues! Today, the European Week of Sustainable Energy begins in Brussels, which is said to be the second week, and the topic is the one that I think needs to be given more attention. As I have already said, Minister, last week, the European Commission adopted a so-called climate and energy package of directives and decisions that provide for EU Member States in particular to reduce greenhouse gases and promote the development of renewable energy sources and to increase biofuel consumption. Slovenia considers that by 2020 the share of renewable energy sources will need to be increased from the current 16% to 25%. To this end, a national action plan will also need to be drawn up by 2020, where the share of energy from renewable sources in transport, electricity, heating and cooling will be identified and presented to Brussels within two years. You, as President-in-Office of the European Union's Environment Council, have also expressed satisfaction with the adoption of these directives, as well as in the past you have repeatedly advocated investing in these technologies, which ensure greater energy efficiency and reduce environmental pollution. Everything is nice and good up here, but in nice words they don't follow the action, even if we look at the budget. I am afraid that, for investment or incentives for more efficient use of energy and for renewable resources, the country is currently not making sufficient resources. I therefore ask you, Minister, what are the 2008 calls for renewed energy sources and efficient energy use? Can companies and households apply for such invitations? And secondly: When do you expect to publish the promised invitation to co-finance the production of energy concepts in the municipalities, and what will be the state share of this co-financing? How is the preparation of the call for funding from the Cohesion Fund for Sustainable Energy? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your question. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Han, thank you very much for this question of yours, which is very up to date. Last week was an important week for the European commitment, which was also adopted in Bali, that Europe will remain the world's leading event if I may say so, which will seriously face climate change and which will also promote greater use of renewable energy sources and will also support efficient use of energy. If I list some instruments - when you say, from the words of the action, this is the case - which instruments we now have in Slovenia and which we will use on the basis of new solutions. The first is the granting of grants from the State budget or the provision of loans with a subsidised rate of interest on investments; the second is the provision of favourable buying-in prices and electricity tariffs produced from renewable energy sources or in co-generation of electricity and heat from high-efficiency fossil fuels; the third is the exemption of CO2 charges in the case of certain measures; and the fourth is the exemption of excise duties on certain biofuels. First, with regard to the first, which is also related to the operation of favourable loans. This year, the Environment Fund will publish two public calls for favourable lending of environmental investments, with particular emphasis on investment in energy efficiency and renewable use. Next week, the Supervisory Board will be - I am sure that we will confirm the new twelve million euro of favourable loans for investment in citizens. In particular, we will support the construction of facilities and heating systems or the preparation of sanitary hot water, the installation of warm stations and the installation of ventilation and thermal heating systems through heat recovery. In mid-March, however, the Fund will offer 14 million Euros of very favourable environmental investment loans to companies. If I mention the construction of boilers, the construction or reconstruction of solar and geothermal systems and so on. Both tenders will have very favourable interest rates. It's about the loans. Now, for subsidies, or what you're asking. Call for proposals in the area of support for awareness-raising and education projects. This year we will co-finance some projects that are still raising awareness and educating these areas. EUR 80,000 is earmarked for these projects. Calls for effective energy use for households. This call will be published by the end of February of this year. Last year, a very important call was made for renewable resources for households. We received a total of 2,683 applications and co-financed 1,207 solar systems, 420 heat pumps, 11 photovoltaic systems and 802 combustion plants in total power of more than 22 megawatts. The call for this year is in preparation. I'm counting on it to be published in March. You are asking about promoting the implementation of advisory services for energy audits, local investment concepts and investment studies. So far, 97 local energy concepts have been developed. This year we anticipate the publication of another public tender to co-finance the production of energy concepts in the municipalities in the first half of March. I hope that we will already adopt a national energy efficiency action plan for the period 2008 - 2016 at this meeting of the Government. A very important document, which will allow it to be through the ministries and through other instruments, if I mention subsidies, reduced interest rate loans, tax reliefs, in particular a new regulation on energy-efficient products and in other ways we will simply achieve that energy efficiency in Slovenia will be significantly improved. These programmes will be implemented by the Technology Fund, which will also take over tasks related to the management, management and implementation of energy efficiency programmes in the public sector. I firmly believe that, nevertheless, the law on the provinces will be adopted and, in line with this proposal, the implementation of the work of these programmes will be carried over to the provinces once the landscapes are established. Local energy agencies will also be able to play an important role in this. You are also asking about the call for a Cohesion Fund. At the Ministry, the first public call for investment subsidies for remote heating systems for wood biomass is in preparation, as part of the priority focus, for innovative measures for local energy supply. This call will be issued in the first half of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I hope that these landscapes will not save everything in Slovenia, but still - I too have a wish, such as you, that all these calls come into play. But when I look at the budget documents, I'm afraid that these funds will be extremely small. In 2008, it will be based on the promotion of the efficient use of energy and renewable resources of the least available resources over the last 12 years, and I must say this, that the 2008 budget is almost fully spent in 2007. So I don't think there's gonna be any calls for households and businesses. The source, as I said, is the 2007-2008 budget. In part, you have already answered me, but would you still ask: Will the 2008 call for an effective use of energy and renewable energy be renewed in households and businesses as well? As regards the invitation to tender to promote the production of energy concepts of municipalities. Despite the ministry's repeated announcement, I must say that at least we have not seen this in the municipalities and are ready and the last call was in March 2006. Because of this promise of the Ministry, a number of municipalities prepared themselves, made this energy concept, but there was no invitation to tender. That's basically how we wait for the Minister's promise. I will ask about the promotion of the production of energy concepts of municipalities: how much will the country co-finance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Just a few more questions. First of all, with regard to the implementation or promotion of investments relating to co-financing of the development of the energy concepts of the municipality. This amount has already been set at €160,000. Half of this amount is foreseen from the 2008 budget and the other half from 2009. The amount of co-financing will be up to 40% of the value of the contract concluded by the municipality and the external contractor. Depending on the number of people in the municipality, the maximum amount of co-financing, taking into account the 40% value of the contract between the municipality and the contractor, will be EUR 2 000 and the maximum amount will be EUR 8 000 - specifically to your question. We also plan, after a long time, to find financial resources, to also call for legal persons, not just for natural persons. I hope this works out financially. However, I would like to tell you that a very important decision, which is linked to the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan, is linked to the financial aspect of this major project. Here they are in addition to cohesion funds - they are funds that exceed €150 million for this 8-year period. Where do we see financial resources? One part - the state budget. Then we will also try to provide the missing resources with funds that will be collected on the basis of an addition to the network to promote efficient use and renewable energy sources. This option is very clearly defined by Article 66.b of the Energy Law. The amount of this supplement - these scissors and canvas - is in the hands of the Government and is then paid to a special account of the Environment Fund and is used deliberately to promote and co-finance investment projects for efficient energy use, the use of renewable resources and also remote heating systems. We also expect private investors to be involved in these projects. However, when assessing 2007 and 2008 as regards state resources for efficient use of energy and renewable energy, you may sometimes unduly release the Environment Fund. The favourable interest rate is in some ways also a financial contribution, which we must then report to the European Union. And if we add that up, these numbers are significantly higher than those we only get from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will be raised by Mr Sašo Pec; both, Minister and Minister, are absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. In particular, thank you for being willing to replace me at the time of asking the question on my part. I would like to ask a question that I consider to be one of the most important during this period, i.e. during this so-called seemingly creating war or conflict of interest between the ruling policy, in particular by the SDS, and some capital holders. Personally, I am one of those who believe that the promoter of general satisfaction in society is a successful economy. Personally, I am one of those who believe that the task of policy is to create a positive climate so that the Slovenian economy can function as best as possible. And personally, I am one of those who favours the Slovenian economy over the foreign economy, both in the field of fiscal and monetary policy. However, I would like to point out this event from this point of view, which, I think, is very mistaken, but mainly missed at the expense of workers, i.e. workers. The fact is that a dispute or conflict of interest between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and economic development operators within our country in the short and long term will not materially affect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, nor the capital holders or employers. The fact is that this conflict, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of Mr Janez Janša, is creating, will essentially affect workers. Naive is one who, in this hall or outside this hall, may think that in the context of this conflict, which is not finally resolved or transferred to this meeting room of the National Assembly with a war on tycunization, that these wars will not be felt by those who are now in the lower half of the social layer of our country. It's those people who will feel all the consequences. And from this title, I would like to point out a dilemma, such as that of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in some hidden way through the answer to the question of question, that it will sell the share of SOD and KAD over 100 investments, while in the National Assembly it has come for permission only within the framework of the State and Real Property Sales Decision. From this address, I would like to point out that the Government answers: Who are the tycoons if they are really within our country? And secondly, what I think is most important, in every democracy that truly cares for citizens and citizens, even when they are in the form of employees, the government reacts in the event of acquisitions, particularly in following the highest possible acquisition price. For then this is the profit of all citizens and citizens in the form of a budget. Not that he's criminalizing the transfer of ownership in any way. From this address, I ask the Government to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister for Environment and Space. In this mandate, the National Assembly has adopted two major amendments to the legislation on housing, all with a view to resolving the housing issue affecting young families. I am talking, of course, about the amendment of the National Housing Savings Scheme Act, as well as subsidies to young families intended for the first time, and in particular for a faster solution to the housing issue. In this mandate, the Coalition has also committed itself to working towards improving the demographic picture, one of the key strategic issues of this coalition. That is why I can say for sure that the Government is in charge of a policy aimed at improving the coordination of work and family life through appropriate tax, employment, social and housing policies. In the area of housing policy resolution for young people, especially for young families, through the relevant legislative changes I have already mentioned, it seeks to provide a basis through financial means for ensuring affordable housing for young people. And now, Mr. Secretary, I am interested in the actual concrete results of these, in my opinion, certainly positive changes, so allow me to ask you the following questions: What are the concrete results of amendments to the legislation on subsidies to young families for the first settlement of the housing issue? I would like to ask: How do the Ministry and the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia cooperate with local communities in solving the housing problem? Question three: What is the ministry's strategy in the coming years to address the housing issue of young people, in particular in terms of providing greater resources for these issues? I sincerely thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u129	Thank you very much, distinguished Ambassador Irgle. First of all, I am grateful for your assessment, which, if given by the Member, is easier said than given by the Minister. In fact, you mentioned some government measures related to improving demographic imagery. However we look at it, but if we are objective and correct, this is one of the key strategic trends that has occurred in Slovenian society in the last period, and in addition to other moves that are always important when everyone subtlely decides to give birth to a child, they have also played their part in tax mechanisms, employment, social and one small element of housing policy. I was at one of the press conferences you wanted to rewrite a small part of the credit, very small, but I was immediately criticized for taking credit where it did not belong; but regardless, I would now answer you specifically to your question. During this term of office, the National Assembly amended the law twice. And what are the results of the legislative changes regarding subsidies to young families for the first rescue. They're good. They're encouraging. The first change went in the right direction, but the second change was even better and thank you to all those who supported the laws. After the first modification of these subsidies - 321 families applied for the tender and only 177 families met the conditions required. That is why we have simply made new changes and have completed the law, and the main objective was to follow the expansion of the range of young families that would be eligible for these subsidies and that this measure is more effective. It is particularly important that we extend the purpose for which families are entitled to a subsidy, in addition to buying or building a residential house, they may also obtain a subsidy for the purposes of reconstruction or change of destination. This has not been subsidised so far, but for such an intervention it is necessary to build; perhaps the prospect, regulation of common spaces, attics and so on, as practice shows that a considerable number of young families have solved their housing issue with reconstructions. And another change is, the government itself has been given a mandate and a discretionary right to determine the amount of the subsidy. Currently, 300 euros per year per family member. What a result - very good! As we said, after the first change of good 300 applications, after the second amendment of 1361 applications. Now that the applications have been fully assessed, I have the information that some 1,000 young families will receive this subsidy, and, as it is said, we have increased the amount of the subsidy granted by the young family by almost 90%, so that, for example, the three-member family will receive €900 per year of state grants. Out of the total amount, this is a million EUR 100,000 subsidies. We're about to go to the call this year, and we're going to the promotion campaign, and we're going to invite all those who have the opportunity. We have provided EUR 3 million 600 000 in the budget, so we can increase the number of those three times or increase the number of those eligible for these subsidies. With regard to cooperation with the municipalities, I can say that the Ministry and the Housing Fund have been involved for many years, that municipalities can obtain co-investment funds, in particular for non-profit rentals, and that they can obtain a favourable long-term housing loan, and that they can also refinance existing loans. They may be requested by municipalities or their budgetary funds, public real estate funds, such non-profit housing organisations and companies under a certain Article of the Public-Private Partnership Act. The invitation to tender has been republished. I expect that more municipalities will decide and, together with the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, will go into the construction of non-profit rental apartments; because these are the ones that are usually the closest to the young families. Whether it is an incentive here or an invitation to be successful, the mayor who brings the most young families into his congregation in a certain mandate. The prerequisite for this is also non-profit rental apartments and housing funds and our ministry offers a deadline for such operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The next question raises the question of Mr Aurelio Juri, a fellow Member of Parliament, to the Minister of Defence. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u131	Thank you, Comrade Vice President. Mr. Secretary, hello! "Stay in the Slovenian Army", has been written and spoken a lot in recent years. The project of its professionalization, we know, does not follow the goals set by the state. The permanent composition of the Slovenian Army, which is supposed to have between 7700 and 8000 members - we see that this is not happening, which means that the goal is getting further away. The number of soldiers from the month to month is falling, especially at the expense of those who have already opted for this profession but are dissatisfied with the position of the soldier. After years of training and participation in one or two missions abroad, many decide to end the working relationship in the Slovenian Army. In my time, I have also suggested that you consider redefining the doctrine and objectives in reducing the composition. In January 2008, the data is from the Slovenian Armed Forces website, and in its permanent composition, the number of officers and subordinates was 3090 and the soldiers were 2693 - I think it is right. In addition, 707 military personnel and 500 civilians were recorded. Such a staff structure, essentially too many officers, does not appear to be the most appropriate compared to other comparable modern armies. Yet, despite this exaggerated number of officers, the idea of establishing a surely expensive military academy should be taken seriously. Since I have a lot of concerns about its relevance, I am not alone, especially in the fact that this type of education is possible at various academies within the framework of the NATO Alliance of Member States, I ask you the following, Mr Minister: Who would such an academy be intended for? Officers who can no longer carry out a military profession, or soldiers who are less than a month-to-month? Secondly: do we have sufficient scientific staff with actual references to education in this institution, and do you cooperate with established scientific and professional institutions in the country in the field of national security and with which? We know about the established cooperation of military education with the University of Ljubljana, as the Department of Defence of the Faculty of Social Sciences provides training for future officers in a special military module. I wonder: ‘ Does such an arrangement no longer suit us? And lastly, how much do you count and tell the public that it's going to cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Karl Erjavac, please answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u133	Your Honor, thank you for your question. Otherwise, you have painted a very black picture about the Slovenian Army, it is not as black, it is not as hopeless as you want to show that our soldiers are leaving every day and that in the end there will be no more Slovenian Army because there will be no more soldiers and officers. You know, we're not doing the personnel plan because of the very low wages. You know it was 500 euros before the time of the soldier's salary. We are one of the few countries that require a V level of education, which is because we want very well-educated and trained soldiers. And that's the main reason we have human resources problems right now. That is why we have already improved the status of soldiers through certain measures, so that they now receive some more than €700. I must say that this salary is still too low in my opinion, given the requirements we have at the Ministry of Defence and in the Slovenian Army. Now, about your particular question. Let me first say that the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army allow for the organisation of high-level vocational education, including university and postgraduate education. At this point, as you have rightly established, we are educating our staff on the basis of so-called modules, it is said, modular education in cooperation with various universities, one of them is the Faculty of Social Sciences, the Department of Defence. Of course, according to the Defence Act, we organise our own education, so we have a school for officers, a school for officers, then a general staff school, a training centre in Vipava, a centre for foreign languages, so that I do not list everyone, within the framework of the Command for Doctrine, Development, Education and Training. And at this point, that's how these programs run. Of course, in cooperation with the experts of other colleges. Especially the Department of Defence. On your question whether we currently have sufficient scientific staff, I estimate that Slovenia has enough of this scientific staff in and outside the Slovenian Army itself. We mentioned which colleges are participating in education in the Slovenian Army. I must say that at this point no decision has yet fallen in which direction we will develop Slovenian military education. Don't be afraid we'll run out of soldiers and officers. I think that the state is so responsible that, as long as it turns out that incomes are still too low for what soldiers, officers, officers are doing, we will also arrange this matter so that this service will be attractive. But I'm aware that it's not just on the payroll. Thus, with regard to the decision on whether to develop the military on our own, education has not yet fallen. They're both possible. This will be decided by the profession both inside and outside the Slovenian Army what would be best. I must say that we are also preparing appropriate spatial conditions. You know that it is being renewed in Maribor as a cadet, a beautiful cultural monument, so at the same time as we are restoring the cultural monument and thus enriching our cultural heritage, we will also give this facility content, that is to say, this military education, which I still cannot say at this time, whether we will go to our own military education or continue to follow the principles that we already know - that is, in the form of modular education. That is why I cannot answer you at this point in time what the financial consequences would be if you decided to pursue a separate military education. But surely before we decided, if we decided, we would also look at what that means in a financial sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you very much. My friend Aurelio Yuri. Complementary question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Secretary! We have adopted the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which, of course, is supposed to plague this outflow. There are some repairs, but there's still an outflow going on. So I may have shown a little too much about the future. But I say to myself that anything is possible when changing the doctrine and objectives, also agree to a reduction in the composition. But surely the composition is inappropriate if we have more officers and officers like soldiers. That, I think you'll admit. And because the decision or the decision on the academy has not yet fallen - and I welcome the renewal of the cadet, and I know that you already have content in this cadet, which is not related to the establishment of the military academy - you would also be asked, in the fact that, at the time of the rebalancing, a lot of resources are being taken to the defence ministry and the Slovenian Army, whether you have considered the following: Does it really make sense to go to such a new cost? For such an academy cannot be cheap or free. This can stand, and I believe that, when showing the success of the current human resources education system in the Slovenian Army with modular systems, with the participation of the FDV and other institutions, and with the courses you have, within the Slovenian Army itself, a real upgrade with such a expensive project makes sense to me. I urge you to reconsider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u137	Yeah, I'd like to complete the answer. In any case, I will take your suggestion into account and we will consider it carefully when we are faced with this question. But I must say that this modular education is not cheap either. You know, lately there's been controversy about the Faculty of Management in Cyprus that these fees have been very high. In any case, we will review these costs, but it is necessary to be aware that even if the decision on independent military education fell, we would certainly use all those scientific personnel that we are already using in modular education. I fear that, given the progress made, the changes in the Slovenian Army, which has become part of the Allied Army, will have to be done more regarding the acquisition of typical military brands. I must say that there are certain problems in this modular education, that we feel a single flaw here, but it seems to me that it can also be arranged through education abroad, through the hospitality of professors who teach in military schools that have a long tradition. I will certainly take these suggestions into account, and the decision on whether we will have a separate military education or modular education has not yet fallen. I think that this matter will need to be assessed well, and this decision cannot be taken only within the Slovenian Army and within the Ministry of Robbery, but this also requires a broader debate, within the framework of the University. Because, last of all, even if we were to decide on a separate military education, we would have to join a university in order to do so. So far, I think there's too much confusion, too little information about which way we're going.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We continue to ask the next question of the Member of Parliament, Kristian Janc, to the Minister for Culture, who is absent. You want to do it anyway?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u140	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to inform the Minister or draw attention to the situation in that part of Slovenian cultural creation which deals with the basic tradition of the culture of the Slovenian people or more specifically with the culture of lovers. Although this type of culture is strongly anchored in Slovenia, which confirms 4,000 different societies, financial support is very low and represents only 2.5% of the funds earmarked for Slovenian culture in the state budget. In these societies we meet people who care about the preservation and development of Slovenian cultural tradition and the recognition of Slovenia as a country with a rich cultural heritage, which today, when we try to identify ourselves as much as possible through human tradition in a wider European space, is very important. These people take care of the preservation of Slovenian cultural tradition almost entirely on amateur activities, through singing choirs, gaming groups, dancers, concierge, folklore and many other activities that have so far been given least attention, and in particular financial assistance. In addition, low funding by the country also faces the following challenges: very difficult bureaucratic procedures for applying for projects with very low funding; secondly, very high liability for company presidents with only a few hundred euros per annum; and thirdly, the payment of copyright fees in the implementation of human culture and the large SAZAS applications. Most Slovenes are able to reach this very amateur culture, which also reaches a very high artistic value. In most Slovenian cities and municipalities, only a fan culture is organized and only a few major cities in Slovenia can boast professional cultural activities. With such low and bureaucraticly demanding funding, all lovers of culture, which is particularly subordinate to the position of human culture, mean the culture of growth of the Slovenian people outside the largest Slovenian cities. We have come to a point where the members of society, due to the lack of involvement of the Ministry of Culture themselves, are largely financing the implementation of this amateur activity from their pockets to preserve this cultural heritage for us and our craftsmen. In November 2007, the President of the National Assembly also received a petition from the Association of Cultural Associations of Slovenia, in which they explained in detail the problem of financing of the amateur culture and also submitted a proposal for a solution. I ask: When and in what form will the Ministry of Culture draw up a programme to support the culture in Slovenia, or what will you do to ensure that this form of culture that preserves Slovenia is finally given appropriate status or funding by the Ministry of State? We know that the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have declared 2008 a European year of intercultural dialogue. Perhaps this is the reason why it would be correct for the implementation of this activity and for the purpose of achieving the objective of this programme to be regulated this year. I'd like an oral response, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Of course you'll get the answer. My colleague Bojan Kontic will raise the question of a letter to the Minister of Economy, who is also absent. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister - since the Minister has left, which does not even matter to my question at this time - colleagues and colleagues! However, the question is so important that I will raise it despite the absence of the Minister, and I want an answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. It will not be the first time that I ask about a very important investment in the Shaleska Valley, this is an investment in Block 6 of the Šostanje Termoelectric power plant with an estimated power of 600 megawatts. Investment is very important for our space, the area that has been paid in history by a high ecological tax, and we rightly expect residents and residents to continue to develop in this area. This is also the decision of the Government and it is written in the investment programme that we will get, in the notes, a block of 6 with 600 mega watts of power in "Schoštanje". But lately it seems that the owner should think about reducing the investment, so the power is to reduce 600 mega watts to 400, and even worse, of course, is information that says that even power would fall below 400. In the past, I have asked many questions, something to do with this investment, and I have also repeatedly received the Minister of Economy's affirmative answers, that the investment is all right, that the investment will, of course, be. I therefore ask the Minister: When will this investment begin? Is the current power still 600 megawatts? It will be very important that what is set out in the plans, programmes to actually apply. Electricity is expected to increase, of course, even after 2012. However, when we talk about the possibility that we might need to think about the limitations imposed on us by exhaust gases, of course, this investment in the Šostanj Termoelectrica in a certain part of replacing the long-standing blocks of the Šostanj Thermoelectricarium, which are in fact still ecologically controversial and energy-efficient. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Ineffective. This investment is therefore a compensation for two long-term blocks and 200 metric watts of added value. That's why I want to know: When will this investment begin, and what will be the strength? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Ambassador Borut Saiovic will raise the question of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which is absent. That's why I'm asking you, do you want to do it anyway? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! My parliamentary question concerns the use and consumption of Southern fruit. A long time ago, we were taught in elementary school that fruit was healthy. Especially when it's winter, they're cold and virosis, and they need to be eaten as much as possible. However, it is rare for consumers to know that this is the fruit that we will buy on the shelf this evening or tomorrow, and also to eat that it has been defended at least a month away, and a month and a half ago for this fruit to withstand transport to a remote Slovenia, it must be properly treated with means of anti-poverty. This is where the problem begins. And the question of how healthy such fruit is and how to deal with it can rightly be asked. In many Slovenian news media and daily newspapers, several months ago the question was raised that shellfish and leftovers of southern fruit due to residues of harmful substances and chemical treatments were not suitable for composting. They are simply not suitable for composting, which means that there is some specific waste that also requires special treatment. Although I may be partially burdened by the waste story, I have another fear that is even more important to me. I wonder, however, what these additives are, whether our customers and our consumers are properly informed of their possible harm, or whether the Republic of Slovenia is carrying out appropriate analyses. It would need to be further deepened into these funds, as if the shell of the southern fruit is treated with anti-plums, against the dancing, then, no doubt, much of this remains on the packaging, on the shelves, on the hands of buyers, consumers, traders, traders and without doubt children. If you look at the Internet and you type "Southern Fruit, Use", you will see a whole bunch of recipes, in which some southern fruits use even shellfish. If you go to any of the better Ljubljana bars, order mineral water, they will bring you water with sliced lemon, where there is also the skin that is supposed to be harmful. And that is why, to the minister with whom we have also had a kind conversation this morning, whose absence I accept with understanding, we have some very important matters at this time, but I ask that at the next meeting the answers to some 10 questions concerning the answer: Is the southern fruit and its use, especially the shell, really appropriate and healthy?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you very much for your question. My colleague, Jožef Jerovšek, will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister. Mr. Minister of Transport. The affair with inadequate concrete roadways in the trojan tunnels has alluded to problematic professionally unacceptable design solutions and the miss track of the highway through the Trojans, which usually takes place through viaducts and tunnels. The affair also drew attention to the responsibility and decisive impact of the current policy under the leadership of the LDS and the construction lobby in choosing such solutions that have extremely bad consequences. The speed from Ločica to Blagovica is permanently limited to 100 km per hour, which is for the highway scandalous. A safe road at a higher speed than we have been driving so far could be reached by a road that would otherwise not meet all the criteria of the highway, but would be at least three times cheaper. I myself have warned of these serious consequences and proved them in the debates under the 1996-2000 mandate, even before the highway was built. Since the route was forced by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I called the variant - working and in a parable - "excessive variant", so it is so much more necessary to carry out the responsibility and clear the backgrounds that led to solutions that place a heavy burden on taxpayers and drivers. Mr Minister, I ask and ask you to clear up: Is it accurate information that the choice of design solutions and the choice of a concrete vehicle in 1999, which was abandoned in the world at that time, was not dictated by the state's profession and interest, but by private financial interests in the form of commission? Mr Minister, I support your efforts so far to clarify the facts, and I therefore ask further questions: Why has engineering control not already been established in the construction of concrete using inappropriately soft aggregates, which are, of course, much cheaper than standard technical regulations? Were the accounts really issued for suitable, sufficiently solid, more expensive aggregates? How and with what effect was the cement lobby involved in selecting the route on viaducts and concrete roads? Was there a project selected for the entire route that required the maximum possible concrete or cement deposit? How can a concrete vehicle be smoothed for three years after opening, allowing only speeds up to 60 kilometres per hour, knowing that we have been driving through the Savinja Valley and at the section from Hotch to Maribor for 40 years on a concrete drive without the vehicle settling down? ♪ Everybody's ♪ [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And then I'll keep going. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you so much for heeding the automatic warning. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek, for your questions. Now you've given them quite a few. I'm asking you to send them all to me because I didn't get them all. But I'll try to answer in general. So, like probably all the users of the highway network, of course, I myself wondered how it was possible that the speed through the Trojan tunnels in the cities, instead of the required 100 kilometers per hour, was limited to 60 kilometers, only two years after the tunnels were dedicated to traffic. Because I wanted to get a real, real and independent professional opinion, the Ministry of Transport ordered a study. I specifically requested that neither Dars nor DDC, in short, the Ministry of Transport ordered an independent study at the Federal Institute of the Republic of Austria for Concretes and the Technical Faculty of the University of Vienna, which is due to its expertise in planning the construction of tunnels famous around the world. The fact is that this case around tunnels is very complex and complex due to contractual and legal relations and design and control relations, but in all circumstances, and taking into account the highly prepared study, I cannot say that the construction of an inadequate vehicle or road is solely the fault of the operator. That would be criminal. I have estimated that a large part of the responsibility must also be taken over by Investment Engineering, which, of course, I consider to be designers, engineers, supervisors. For they have led, both operationally and technologically, and not least, qualitatively all these investments in the construction of tunnels. Although I have been repeatedly told by engineers or Engineers that standards, regulations, specifications have not been sufficiently clearly defined and defined, I am sure that citizens and citizens are not interested in these standards and all of this is not the case. They are, of course, interested in real quality. This means that through virtually new tunnels they can drive 100 kilometers per hour, as was required by Dars at the time of the signing of the contract. Your Honor! All the time since I became Minister of Transport, I have been giving clear signals that everyone who works in Slovenian road construction should make the maximum possible for the benefit of all of us citizens. Therefore, I repeat what I have repeatedly stressed is the need to take responsibility, but I myself want to create serious pressure on the entire construction chain. I am sure that, because of these pressures, everyone involved in the future will work better and especially more responsibly. And what will the ministry do to ensure that the consequences are not paid by citizens and citizens? I made it clear that Dars will not and must not pay the cost of repairing these vehicles in the Trojan tunnels. I have ordered Darsu to begin negotiations immediately with both Engineering and contractors on cost coverage, which is already being done intensively. I hope that this issue will not require a judicial path. But I also ordered that as soon as they negotiate - I hope that as soon as the weather conditions allow - these tunnels will also be repaired and that we can all drive over 100 kilometers per hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, a supplementary question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, let me say that I support your efforts and I am pleased to see your non-infection with the pressures, interests of the design and construction lobby. They are, of course, highly responsible for the most expensive variants and performances that require the reconstruction of viaducts and tunnels within a few years. That is why I remind you, all of you, that we all remember a number of serious irregularities in the invitation to tender, the collection and opening of tenders and the selection of operators for individual parts of the Trojan route. There was even a change of offer, a diskette before opening. However, all irregularities and financial malfeasances were swept under the carpet during the previous governments. When you mentioned that the contract was guaranteed for 100 kilometers an hour, I must tell you that I was then Director Dars Brodnik at the interview, he gathered the designers, warned me that this route had already been chosen, it seemed very inappropriate because it would not allow speed. Because it could be built with a slight deviation from highway standards and in the field with only one tunnel - I'm sure! These designers claimed, as well as the Darsovs: "No, it has to provide a speed of 130 kilometers per hour." Now we're driving 60 kilometers an hour. I therefore ask you once again: How will the Government enforce compensation for the cause of material damage and who is responsible for driving twice as slow as the regional road? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u153	Thank you very much. So, Mr Jerovšek, I would, of course, find it very, very difficult to answer the questions that have happened in the past. As for the trojan tunnels, I think I've made myself very clear. And, of course, I will insist. However, for all the other compensation responsibilities that you referred to indirectly, it would be very difficult for me to respond at this time. But I would like to ask you that the questions that you have now mentioned to me, and then, of course, I will send you the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Ambassador Happy Friend will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague. As you know, there have been so-called places of the century in Primorsk with the sale of General Navigation. In December, despite warnings in this National Assembly, this happened. In December 2007, or personally through Jakin's law firm, I filed a criminal complaint against a criminal association that allegedly damaged the company for hundreds of millions of euros due to the illegal and untransparent sale of the General Navigation. This criminal society is also written in the so-called octopus and is essentially an integral part of the lawsuit. The sale did not take place legally and allegedly illegality is based on the fact that the auctioneers were not even able to look at the business documents, although the SOD requested them to sign a declaration that they were aware of all the positive and negative contracts and the financial situation in the company. It is understandable from this address that the auctioneers were far less than they could have expected, and therefore the price is lower. Why are we talking about illegality? Of course, the terms of the auction itself were constantly changing during the course of the journey, and in the end, the Minister was asked whether he would sell to the best bidder, who had been called twice to supplement the price, and ultimately, the General Navigation ended up at the discretion of the Minister and, of course, the SOD. Why the Minister - because the contract was signed with Minister Bajuk behind closed doors and he had to come to his office to sign it. Of course, we believe it was a pre-arranged sale. And that's why we've filed a criminal complaint and we expect this prosecution to see light. 'Cause it looks like she mysteriously disappeared. Why are we saying that the allegations are justified? Because the Kosovo Anti-Corruption Commission has also confirmed this, the State Prosecutor's Office has been informed, the Court of Auditors has been informed of this, and also insists that these are elements of the crime - and, of course, nothing has happened. As the Minister of Justice of the State, as the Minister of Justice, you have a duty to ensure that such matters do not happen. For many minor cases, the State's Attorney's Office has made an elephant fly. I'm asking you, where's the lawsuit? When is she going to look at the light? And: Will there ever be a trial? For we also intend to bring an action before an international court if ours does not act.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, too, for the question raised to the honourable Member. Member of the Commission, with regard to your question on the General Navigation of Portorož, I should like to say that we have already received your parliamentary initiative on 10 January this year, requiring official supervision of the work of the Supreme Court in Cyprus in relation to the General Navigation. We immediately briefed the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia on this issue and asked him to provide us with findings on official controls in the matter. On 22 January 2008, we received his reply that all reported irregularities were such that the affected party could enforce them by legal means in the relevant courts of law. In view of this reasonableness of the evidence, it is not possible and is not allowed to be tested in the process of official control, as this would involve the intervention of the Minister of Administration in the judicial decision, and for which the President of the Supreme Court cannot and must not be competent. We also submitted an application on 17 January 2008 to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office for a review of the alleged criminal society which, according to your writing, allegedly damaged the General Navigation of Portorož in an illegal way. We have proposed to the Prosecutor's Office that the case in question be dealt with in accordance with the competences and direction of any decision on the merits of the establishment of a special group which will examine the possibility of suspecting the crime service in the case in question. On 23 January 2008, we received a reply from the State Attorney's Office that, according to the information they have at their disposal, the matter has already been dealt with by the District Attorney's Office in Cyprus and is currently in the phase of the pre-trial procedure. The Cypriot prosecutor's office is also supposed to provide you with a number of answers in your inquiries. In view of your warning, however, the Head of the State Prosecutor's Office in Cyprus will obtain more detailed reports on the State Prosecutor's findings and measures in the matter and decide on the basis of this whether the circumstances under Article 10d of the Public Prosecutor's Act have been provided for. This Article provides for the establishment of a second local competent prosecutor’s office, provided that it is obvious that this will make it easier to carry out the procedure or that other valid reasons, in particular the protection of impartiality, independence or the reputation of the State Prosecutor’s Office, are in place. Let me add that in this matter we have also requested the Ministry of the Interior and the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to take note of the possible measures. However, we have not yet received an answer. We expect to inform you of this at the latest by the end of the deadline for responding to your written initiative mentioned above. Allow me, as Minister of Justice, to explain that in your case, there is also a question relating to judicial or prosecutorial decisions, where it is necessary to take into account that the judicial branch of authority is separate from the executive branch. That, therefore, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia is an administrative body and, as such, is separate from the judiciary. In this respect, the Ministry is responsible for carrying out tasks in the field of the organisation and operation of the judiciary in a more relevant way. In no case may it have a substantive effect on the judicial or prosecutorial decisions. The judge or the state prosecutor shall carry out their duties on the basis of law and law under the applicable Law on Judicial Service or the Law on Public Prosecutions. However, our powers are also precisely defined in the sectoral laws, and we also carry them out consistently and in particular within the permitted frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. Member Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Honourable Minister. You really can't read your indiscretions. On my part, all praises in this direction. See, however, the media must not write about this matter - a public ban. Official surveillance, you say. Isn't it funny that in the court's official supervision we find that everything is unsaid, however, when we have in hand, that Mr. Velkavra is Mr. Döhle's representative, and all complaints are received in essence by a court whose president is his wife? Isn't it distasteful that, in fact, in Navigator, this is a parallel company, the director of Aleš Velkavra, the son of the mentioned judge, who also in fact contributes to this criminal association of his own? If you look at the organogram, you'll see its role. It is not unusual that the action does not receive a judicial epilogue, however, when it is clear that the auctioneers were not able to look into the business documents, so-called, except for Mr German, who had full insight into the business documents. It is not clear that the State of Slovenia was harmed by allowing Mr Döhl to buy essentially a company for 50 million chicks. The second quarter of this year, the company's business salary rose by 200% and the gentleman was already able to collect his own purchase. In doing so, he sold two more old ships that were more expensive than new ones. By chance, the General Sailing buys two new and two old ships, two new ones being cheaper than the two old ones sold by the German General Sailing. All of this points to strong crime and I think it is extremely irresponsible that we spend so much money, unless the minister and his client, old or new Slovenia, are involved. That's also a question I'd like to address to you. And please answer me, when is the epileptic court coming? That's what I was asking you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u161	Thank you again for the word and thank you for this additional question. But most of it was just a comment. The questions were first of all whether it was legally permissible for a relationship to exist between the President of the Court and the President of the Court and the partner. There is no legal restriction in this respect. If you feel that this needs to be arranged differently, you should change the law in this regard. However, the question is whether, of course, such a law is again in line with the constitutionally guaranteed freedom between people to choose their profession and employment. For everything else, I must say this: as you have seen, we have initiated a number of measures, but the Minister cannot and must not interfere with the decision of the judiciary. We have heard that complaints have been of such a nature that they can be decided by an immediate court in the appeal proceedings, and then there are other legal remedies. That is why the Minister of Justice, as I have already said, must not be involved in such a decision. Also, all decisions of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office in progress and in their operation shall not be prejudiced by the Minister. They operate on the basis of the Constitution and the law, and they are independent in their work. If the Minister intervened in any way in this operation, he would be immersed in a plaza of a number of perceptions, probably also by members of the National Assembly, in grave violation of the principles of the independence of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you very much. My friend Lucky Friend, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u163	Yeah, we'd like to take advantage of the business arrangement. And since it is the biggest damage to state property or property that was formerly owned by Slovenia, we have placed it in the hands of foreigners, I have the right to request an extended treatment in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'll ask you if you'll allow me to vote on this. I think the D.A. has its own sanctions. As long as it proves to be inactive or passive in this matter, the Attorney General must also be responsible for his actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Tomorrow, the National Assembly will decide on your proposal in the framework of the votes. And we continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will also ask the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, both ministers! Dear Mr. Lovro Sturm! In the report of the Slovenian Press Agency of 4.1. this year, on the journalist's question why the damage caused by the occupying party must be paid by Slovenia, we have observed your reply, in which you quote, summarising the records of the STA: "... that after the war the communist authorities, in exchange for a German loan of 800,000 million marks," said 800 million marks, which is, of course, close to the truth, but not true, "returned every request." And of course, "that they want," probably meant the minister of the government, "to find ways to quickly and without bureaucratic complications to regulate the legal possibilities for partial payment of material damage." End of entry from the ST record. This means a heavy budget burden, of course at the expense of taxpayers, and in this case the injured will receive only a symbolic compensation for the confiscated, destroyed or stolen movable and immovable property during World War II. On this subject, I received a reply from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to a written question on 21.4.2006, which states: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has always made a serious effort to establish a dialogue with Germany on resolving the open issue of war damage." And in the end, he adds, quote again: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will also seek in the future to resolve the issue of compensation for the war damage caused in World War II by Germany." End of quote. On the re-written question to the Government of 25.9.2007, in which I wanted to explain how many times in this mandate, when and how the promised efforts have been carried out, I have not yet received an answer. On my announced oral question about these efforts, the Foreign Minister, in his written reply of 19.10.2007, quoted the following: "With regard to the first question of the MLC, he explains that with the Republic of Slovenia, the issue of the payment of war damage caused by Germany during World War II remains unresolved. On the basis of this view, the IHR, through intensive diplomatic action, is working consistently and consistently to start a bilateral dialogue on this issue with the Republic of Germany as the legal successor to the Third Reich." Of course, even the questions raised at the time, when and how many times these attempts were - there is no answer. In view of this, I ask: Do you think it is really our duty for our country to pay the damages only to Slovenia? And: On what legal basis have you built your answer, stating that the former authorities have waived the payment of war damage by the German State in exchange for the loan, given that the current authorities in some of the answers refer to the fact that they are trying to do something in this direction? Thank you for the questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u167	For answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u168	You must have thought about the answers. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you also for the question, honourable Mr Znidaršič. There is still a lot of confusion about the payback of the war damage caused by Germany - and there were other countries - in World War II. And the facts are as follows. After the war, the former Yugoslavia received only $36 million from Germany and 34 million from the then German Marks by 1963. In 1968, the former Yugoslavia restored diplomatic relations with Germany and in 1970, Germany agreed to talks on war compensation. With strong opposition from the then German opposition, Germany proposed to Yugoslavia an indirect solution to the war of compensation through various forms of economic cooperation. On the basis of agreements between the Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on capital aid, a loan agreement was concluded in 1973 for 300 million German Marks and in 1974 for 700 million German Marks, totalling one billion German Marks. The former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has never begun to repay that loan. However, Slovenia has assumed its obligations under both of these loan agreements and paid them back in full. The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has not filed a new claim for payment of war compensation until the end of its dissolution, i.e. until the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and not after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, when it is still functioning as a state. In addition, pursuant to the decree on the transfer of the enemy's property to state property after the war, all properties of the German Reich and its nationals located in the territory of Yugoslavia and all properties of German nationals were also acquired. The information I said is given in the Report on Open Questions of War Damage, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 1993. The report was forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia after its adoption in the Government and was also discussed here. Also important is the testimony of the former Yugoslav Minister of Finance, who performed this function from 1967 to 1974 before the District Court in Ljubljana in 2004. The former Yugoslav finance minister said that it was a means to meet the requirements of the moral and material satisfaction of victims of war violence, which for political reasons was a formal aid to capital. Following the conclusion of the agreement, the then communist authorities waived all further requests. The interest rate, the duration of the savings and the other terms of payment of this loan had no relation to market parameters. The purpose of capital aid agreements can also be partly concluded on the basis of the preamble to the 1974 agreement. It is true that all attempts to recover material war damage so far are primarily in the direction of securing the compensation done by Germany, and that was also my wish. However, there is no way that this could happen. For precisely for the reasons I have stated, Germany has consistently rejected Slovenian efforts to discuss this issue. On the basis of the above facts, each person can also create his own image with regard to Germany’s obligation to pay war damages. However, the fact that Yugoslavia, after the war, acquired German property and property of German nationals and more than a billion brand loans under favourable conditions is certainly a fact. Of course, she also received sufficient wealth from Italy, including in the form of material goods. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] which worked at the time and are still working today - if I mention only a few such cases - and there is some of this property in Slovenia. [[Turn off the microphone.]] Thus, there is also a commitment by Slovenia to at least partially repay those who were injured in the war in accordance with its capabilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Complementary question, colleague Žnidaršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Of course, thank you for the answers, but I must say that they are certainly not perfect and have serious shortcomings. Among other things, the next flaw. There is no written document concerning the fact that the former authority has waived any further application. The testimony of the dead, in particular the two men, is Tito and Brandt, who discussed the matter at the time and the whole thing ended with the loan, not with a billion marks of Slovenia, but with Yugoslavia. And Slovenia paid its share, not on favourable terms, but on a reprogrammed debt in view of its subsequent independence. I must add the following: that the former Yugoslav authorities could not agree on this because Germany refused to discuss this subject until the merger. After the merger of the two Germans, however, none of our authorities made the necessary efforts to restore this issue, which, of course, was done by the other countries of the Eastern bloc with greater and less power, as well as with different results, but nevertheless, they all closed the question and we did not. And there is the conclusion of our government that the issue is open, and also the claim of this government that the matter is unresolved and that it will try. Of course, she didn't try, and nothing was done. Of course, this is why I am not satisfied with the answer. This is a never-paid debt under approximately US$ 6 billion and good relations with the Republic of Germany are certainly not worth that much money and due to good relations we have no right to give up such a huge debt, at least not entirely, and to leave behind more than 10,000 material damage to the Second World War, which has not yet received anything and would also be underpaid in the future. Do you, Mr. Minister, think we should not ask any more questions about this subject of Germany? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u173	Thank you, too, for this additional question. I have already told you in the introduction that the issue we are talking about is unclear and that it is possible to interpret, but it is indisputable that the former Yugoslavia, as long as it existed, considered this issue to be a solution. It is also undeniable that certain assets remained on the ground of the Republic of Slovenia. We all want to open up these questions, as have the previous views, and remain unchanged in this regard. And even in our relations with the Federal Republic of Germany, we have never closed it. The matter is open at this level, but if we want to do something for material harmers, it would be irresponsible for them to refuse responsibility, as all previous governments have done since independence and have left this question open to Members - with Germany. It would be irresponsible. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] However, these victims are less affected each year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you for your kind and procedural proposal, colleague Žnidaršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u175	Thank you very much. In the context of the procedural proposal, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers that are so at this point that no, I would say, the self-sustaining authority has taken the necessary steps to remedy this problem on the inside - I fully agree. I also agree with the conclusion that there was something about this money, some of the assets that remained in the common good. Individuals have not been compensated for material damage, and in fact all of them, including those who have not suffered anything. However, I argue that the matter is extremely complex and that it would suggest that a general debate should be held in order to find all the elements that are necessary for us to operate with much more information and with more precise facts when we discuss or adopt the law that the Government has already drawn up, and yet there is still a hearing in the National Assembly, with which we would at least in some way, and even to a lesser extent, repay at least part of the damage to everyone affected. Many have remained more or less poor since the war, or have died, and their descendants have nothing to inherit, except the German debt that was not paid and is justified, as far as it comes from the smaller, I would say less than five percent of everything Germany owes, and the former country has received and was used in the common financial framework of the needs of this country - something for pensions, something has disappeared in the budget, something has been built by long-distance wires and so on. The only compensation received by natural persons was compensation for medical experiments during World War II. So only those received some small compensation in money and there were those in the Republic of Slovenia, I think, something over 50 totals. Everyone else is out there. Later marriage - memory, responsibility, and the future in one part also made it possible for part of the material compensation, but most found out about it too late. I should have proved by which German company then seized or seized or owned their assets and therefore there was very little damage from that fund. And with regard to the open question in this area, I propose, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we hold a general debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Tomorrow, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on your procedural proposal as part of the voting point. The following is Mr Dusan Kumer, who will ask the Minister of Justice as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, dear colleague and colleague. In recent times, a number of opinions, assessments and opinions have been made publicly and have been written on the developments in the Koper court, including, in particular, the departure of the President-in-Office of the Court, representing the Municipality of Koper and the mayor and the policy of this municipality. You yourself have stated that this transition is not legally disputed - which is true. However, a specific case where the President of the Court, after writing to the media, is seriously discouraged by the involvement of current policies and politicians, does not have a positive impact on the work of judges and on the reputation of justice in the public. Doesn't it seem a little strange to you if it's not already disputed that the President of the Court becomes a party's lawyer, a policy that was prosecuted three months ago? However, if everything was not as it should have been in this court, the letter of the judges of Cyprus to the Council of Justice, in which they point to certain irregularities, shows, after all. However, any suspicion of alleged irregularities in the judiciary raises doubts about the rule of law. And until doubts are rejected with all certainty, there is no expectation of unconditional trust in the third branch of power. Therefore, Minister, I ask you: How do you assess and comment on the departure of the President of the Court between the lawyers of the company who defends and who has recently defended the mayor and the policies of the municipality of Koper in this same court? Also from the point of view of moral standards, which you have repeatedly highlighted in your human resources decisions. Did you, as Justice Minister, exercise all supervisory rights? On the contrary, how do you assess the findings of the control given in this regard by the Supreme Court? And third: Do you believe that the appearance of the impartiality of the court of Cyprus in public is distorted in dealing with some very resilient cases or cases? And if you think it is, "What are you going to do?"
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your question. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. With regard to the departure of the President of the Koper District Court of Bogomir Horvat to Matoz's law firm, let me reiterate the already well-known position that this is nothing unusual, this has already happened, and of course nothing illegal. No legal irregularities can be attributed to this act. Just as a lawyer can change his job, so can a lawyer, and there is no issue. There are many cases of lawyers leaving their own species and becoming judges or notaries or hiring in public administrations. Or vice versa: former judges become lawyers, notaries. The law allows even assigning judges, for example, to the Ministry of Justice - the latter is very common abroad. It is a normal fluctuation that is characteristic and completely identical abroad. And last but not least, it's the individual decision of each lawyer individually. Furthermore, in the case of Popovic, the Ministry of Justice has done what it is competent to do. We have given the complaint to the competent authorities and have also submitted proposals for judicial supervision to the President of the Supreme Court responsible for this and have also informed the President of the Supreme Court, i.e. the full judicial authority. As it is known, the Court of Justice carried out its review of the above-mentioned irregularities in the allocation of judicial records a while ago, but the Supreme Court found no significant irregularities. Here I should point out that, for example, the Ministry cannot and should not just exercise such control, as this would interfere with the independence of the judiciary. In this case, we are talking about the conduct of cases of judicial administration, which are supervised by the President of the Court of First Instance and by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia at all stages. And the Minister responsible for justice exercises official control over the work of the courts through the Presidents of the Higher Courts or the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia - so not directly, but through these Presidents. This is also the answer to your question as to how I assess the findings of the supervision made in this regard by the Supreme Court. Clearly, irregularities have not been identified and I can only trust these findings as a minister. As has already been said, only the Ministry of Control cannot carry out its tasks. On your last question, however, I do not believe that the appearance of the impartiality of the Court of Cyprus in public is distorted. I also think that all of the measures mentioned above have helped, both by our side and by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Comrade Dushan Kumer, a supplementary question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. I have asked you mainly for comments and your opinion on some things. However, I will serve with two more facts and ask you again for your comment and assessment. There is no doubt that one of the most resilient and also one of the most challenging cases in the court of law was led by a judge who had not had sufficient experience, not least proving that she was transferred immediately after the completion of the trial from the district to the district court in order to gain the necessary experience there. And secondly, as you mentioned, I have taken control from the Supreme Court, as the media have noted, of the following observation, and I quote: "...that the surveillance could neither confirm nor confirm the suspicion whether all the rules were respected or not." To me, I forgive you, this finding seems inconvenient to the court, because who can determine whether it has been or not, a questionable conclusion to make from this single body, but an institution that can judge is a bit condescending or, I'll say again, indecisive. True, the Presidents of the courts are and will also leave in such cases, but in the Korat case it is still a specific situation that has taken place. In view of your comment and assessment today, I will always be in the future, when, also from the government circles with the President at the head of the flat and in principle, critical to the judicial branch of power, for example, I will warn Kopra, where you said that everything is okay, nothing is wrong, and with your concrete case and assessment I will reject the flat-rate assessment which revolves around the relationship to the judiciary also from government circles.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you also for this additional question, honourable Member. You mentioned the judge in charge of this case. The Constitution lays down the principle of a natural judge in our country, and matters are resolved as they come, and they are assigned to the judges in order. Well, it was the judge's turn to handle the matter, and she had to deal with it. You elected her to court in the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Justice. The Minister of Justice has no role to play in this, who will be elected as a judge, and that is not for the Minister of Justice, nor for the Minister of Justice or for the Government, to decide in the National Assembly, honourable Members, you are the one. You've chosen it in order, as stipulated by the Constitution and also by law. I mean, she was just solving a case that belonged to her. With regard to the content that you have said, the supervision of the Supreme Court, let me just say, the Minister of Justice must be very detained in assessing the judicial branch of power, because any statement he makes could be misunderstood. Other political factors, including Members, are, of course, more free in this respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Comrade Kumer, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. I will make use of Article 246 of our Rules of Procedure in a procedural manner, but I would suggest that we speak more broadly in the National Assembly, in particular in two respects, on this right, formal and juristically inconvenient response from the Minister. For the second time, the Minister avoids not having, I will not say any influence, but that, of course, he does not have to influence certain resources of the judicial branch of power. However, I think that the Presidents of the Courts are particularly affected in human resources matters. If we think back, recently there have been many views, assessments of the Court and of the people who were in the leading seats in this court. However, when it comes to a specific case where I am a judge to you, once again, if they hold to things that have been published in public, I think it is also by the Supreme Court. Although we have appointed her to this place, she was in the so-called, called, sort of a traineeship age where each year this judge should be evaluated for the first three years of the service. And the evaluation wasn't done, not for the last year. It's supposed to be before the holidays. After the process that took place and the epilogue received in September, instead of this assessment - it was assessed as ineffective and moved from the district to the district court. You can't dissuade me from being able to express some doubts, but I suspect that everything is not as you said before. That there are some gray foxes that have occurred in this case in the court of Kohorje. Finally, I hope that we will learn more from the letter that the judges wrote to the Council of Justice, which, of course, the Council of Justice will also give an answer. I hope you're probably familiar with this as a justice minister. If we vote that we will talk more about this in the National Assembly, you will have the opportunity to say more about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u186	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler will raise a question of the matter before the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! In the various reports by sector, internal affairs, defence and so on have often been exposed in recent years to the fact that the security situation in Slovenia is quite favourable, since there is no increased risk of, for example, terrorist attacks, nor because of the increased involvement of our police officers and soldiers in various international missions, nor because of the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. At the same time, we were aware of the fact that the number of police officers in Slovenia is declining alarmingly due to departures from the police force or retirement. In this recent period, many police officers have been deployed to the southeast of the country or to the Schengen border. In all this time, however, you have failed to ensure that negative trends in police departures stop. That some parts of the country lack police officers, citizens and citizens have also been observed. All of this is worrying, especially in relation to the question of whether the safety of our citizens is diminishing in everyday life. I therefore ask you, Mr. Minister, how do you plan to ensure an adequate balance in the ministry you run between the day-to-day security of citizens and citizens in the country and to ensure security for the representatives of the European Union authorities or representatives of the Member States of the European Union, which our country is also obliged to provide during the Presidency? Are not the security measures taken to transport representatives of the Member States of the European Union and the high representatives of the bodies of the European Union excessively, as is also shown by the fact that road traffic is virtually stopped between participants when entering Ljubljana from the direction of Brdo and the direction of turn, causing dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction? And if so, Minister, that the security situation in Slovenia is favourable - why such exaggeration?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the question, Madam Members. In fact, I should answer this question in such a way that in Slovenia security assessments are still as they were - at least those I am familiar with. Thus, in Slovenia there is still a low level of threat by the possibility of potential terrorist attacks, and I hope that this will remain so in the future. With regard to the events that are taking place in Slovenia or the worlds of ministers that are taking place, we must comply with our legislation as well as other countries' legislation. This means that we must protect in the same way every protected person as this one is protected in their country. Thus, if a minister comes to us who is a protected person at a certain level in a country, we must protect him in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the assessment of the threat to their country. As this country, of course, does when our representatives come to their country for an official visit. As a result, various ministerial events are protected in different ways. So far, we have had the most demanding security council just in the past week, when ministers of the Interior, Justice and Migration were here - because some countries have all these ministries and in all countries are virtually interior ministers among the most protected persons and therefore, of course, the level of protection is appropriate. The number of ministers, which was suddenly found in Slovenia, was also the largest in this case. There were 60 ministers in one event. The police ensured all their Presidency activities in such a way that they did not permanently relocate people from general police stations to the police administration of Ljubljana or Kranj, where they would carry out this work all the time. We work to ensure that police officers, according to plans that are specially prepared for each world, are adapted to the threat assessments that can, of course, change, and come to work only on the days that this event takes place, while at the same time providing the same number of police officers working at these police stations, or ensuring their presence, that virtually the same number of police officers are present. This, of course, leads to some additional work for police officers, for whom the Government has also allocated certain funds to pay for these overtimees, if I say so, or the additional work that has been done. On transport itself, we have tried to be as rational as possible; we do not drive 60 ministers each in our vehicle, we drive them by buses, as is the custom in some other countries. So the columns are shorter, faster. We do not foresee any roadblocks and road closures, it is said, are not plans to completely ban traffic on certain roads, but we stop traffic with patrols located in certain crossings and with mobile units near the column itself, so that we stop traffic as little as possible. Let us only ensure that the column is uninterrupted, uninterruptedly moving along a certain route of travel and, of course, there is some stopping of traffic in certain crossings at that time. However, the police, who are in the crossings, remain in them, so that later this concentrated traffic, which is, is pushed forward or ensure that it is carried out under some normal procedure. Of course, the road, which leads to Brdo and from Brda to Ljubljana, is one of the most burdened. As we know, we have no connection to the motorway ring around Ljubljana and there are usually very large "crowds", especially at the most frequent hours, if I say so. Police officers believe that in the last year - even the report that will soon be presented - have shown the extent to which they have investigated crimes in the past year. I think that the data I have been familiar with so far has once again raised the percentage of criminal investigations compared to the previous year. Thus, police officers with organisational arrests try to ensure all necessary security for citizens and, due to the Presidency, the safety of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia must not be reduced at any time in no place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has a supplementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the recent implementation of the President of the Government in the European Parliament has certainly not been completely without salt. Much more so than it has been or is still an autonomous state, or is such political leadership, they wrap car sirens more often, and road traffic is stopped when high political representatives are transported on the roads. In Brussels, where the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is constantly taking place or the Presidency is taking place, you will rarely hear car sirens or run into traffic stops, the same will apply to Strasbourg, where the European Parliament and the Council of Europe are established, which is often visited by the top leaders of the Member States. For example, last Thursday, when you mentioned it, between 16 and 17 p.m., traffic on the Celovska road was completely compromised because they traveled from Brda to Ljubljana in successive groups after several cars by Ministers of Justice and Ministers of the Interior. I've had the honor of hanging out in a car for over 50 minutes on Celovska Road. I hope that we will not forget the citizens and citizens of Slovenia of our Presidency to the Council of the European Union in particular after the traffic congestion, the rolling of sirens and the noise of helicopters. Despite the presidency, citizens must continue to live normally, to go to work, to school, to get to a doctor, to arrive at the airport in time, to live as normal a day as possible, and to enjoy adequate security in the interior of a country where it is not entirely impossible to meet a police officer on the ground. That is why I think it would suggest, however, that we examine whether such excessive measures are really necessary, because how can all these ministers travel smoothly, for example, in Brussels and do not bend the sirens and stop traffic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u193	Yeah. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I want to answer, because I am always trying not to answer some questions that are not related to protection, so I will also try to hold on to this part of the answer now. Ministers who are - I have to say: most ministers, 90% of ministers have driven on the bus, some ministers who are extremely exposed and who always have at least eight security guards, their guards, cannot be called of course the country from where these ministers are from, are specific requirements as to how they are transported. They require blinded vehicles, if we do not have them, they are brought in and used by their vehicles, with their plates, and for these vehicles we need to provide such protection as is necessary and cannot be on the bus. This protection applies in Strasbourg, this protection applies to them in Brussels, everywhere. The difference between what is happening here and here and here is that from this country they bring their vehicles and use their vehicles, and also in Brussels the columns of some ministers move exclusively for blue lights and, if necessary, use sirens. When the concentration of ministers is so high, it is necessary to provide additional protection. In all the Councils of Ministers, where I was personally involved since December 2004, there has been no movement in any of the countries of the Ministers of the Interior and Justice without accompanying the police and without light and sound signals. Nowhere! Not in Great Britain, not in Luxembourg, not in Germany, not in Lisbon - nowhere! It was happening everywhere under the same regime, and we are only implementing the regime that is expected of us and is needed. But if you stand on the Celovska Road at four in the afternoon at 50 minutes, it is still a very short time. When I drive alone, when there is no need to use sound and light signals, I also stand in a column on Celovška road, if I go from the centre of Ljubljana towards Gorenjska, one hour. This is the usual crowd that happens on this road. Traffic concentration is awesome and you know if you listen to the radio every morning, if you don't get to Ljubljana at six o'clock in Ljubljana, you need an hour and a half for the last mile before Ljubljana to get to the city center. And, of course, the direction of traffic that is happening has not significantly increased the waiting on these roads, because simply a road cannot do such traffic towards Gorenjska and back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. My colleague, Boštjan Zagorac, will be asked or should ask a question from the Minister of Economy, who is not present. Are you going to do it anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u195	Thank you. I must say that this time I am going to raise the question with great joy, as a representative of the parliamentary group, which is now one of the most powerful in this House, except for colleagues from Social Democracy, who are as many as we are. I will be so happy to feel strong this time, and I will ask the question there in the blank, just like most of my colleagues today. The other thing I would like to remind you of at the outset is that it will be very good tomorrow to see colleagues from the coalition gladly reject any debate, and many would be justified, but I believe that the colleague representing the coalition is happy to type and write everything we asked today and will give a comprehensive report tomorrow on what needs to be supported and what to reject. But let me go back to my question to the Minister of Economy. I would like to hear some answers myself at the next meeting of the Minister on the so-called fight against tycoons and tycoonization. Although I must say that among the people, the term "the fight against Bajuk and the baukinization in this country" has already been picked up. I would like to focus on Paloma Slatki Vrh, which is 70.97% owned by the State, the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know why it was almost impossible for me to ask this question at the start, given that the majority owner of the company is a country. In this company, so, I will say, both at the head of the administration and at the head of the Supervisory Board, the members of New Slovenia are visible. The principal’s or the chairman’s salary is EUR 12,000 gross, and the former director’s adviser, who was the director of the board, pays EUR 10,000 gross. The employee's salary in this company is EUR 600 gross. If this is how this government works and the privatisation or destruction of an individual company, I would really like to hear this answer. And if I continue - one of the strategic partners of this company said: "The invitation was not submitted seriously, so no serious company could respond to it." Does Mr. Bayuk have any greater interests here? On one occasion, he himself said that he would remove the one who was a tycoon or wanted some black privatisation. I believe that the Minister of the Economy will be happy to respond to this, but unfortunately, the time is also the same as it is available if no representative from the Government is sitting, which could paralyze, and I do not see any serious, which could say anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u196	Thank you very much. It's a Magnificent message. Spending, however, will raise a question for the Minister of Education and Sport, who is also, unfortunately, absent today. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Let me begin by saying that I expect Mr. Minister Milan Beast to answer me orally. With this, I am embarking on a great adventure so that by the end of the Presidency he will not be at any meeting, because, let us say, from Minister Virant I am expecting an answer already three times and from the Minister of Labour two sessions - but well, let us leave the opportunity open to hear that in oral form, the Minister answers the question that is positively addressed at the beginning. Recent reports on how good our students have been in international research on the achievements of Pisa 2006 and PIRLS 2006 can be monitored in the media. It is indeed necessary to acknowledge to the Minister of the Beast that he has commended the teachers and teachers who have done their job so well and also the students and students that they have been so good in these studies, but now that he has shared the praises of those who have been questioned and those who have trained them, it is not possible to forget that in 2005 the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport held a very painful debate on the results of a similar study, of course from the previous year, and although we have warned the opposition Members and Members that there are no expert analyses of the results of that international study, the alleged poor achievement of the students and students was an excuse for the start of the campaign on school legislation. A number of amendments have been made, either by the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, and even more amendments to the Law on Primary Schools. So now I wonder: What is Dr. Beast’s position on these results? And: How will the achievements of our students in international research, I stress, PISA 2006 and PIRUS 2006, take into account the anticipated changes in curricula and other planned changes in primary and secondary school in view of the experience with the start of the mandate? I would like to point out that this is about rapid and major projected changes in curricula, both in primary schools and in high school. And another question: How does he assess the Slovenian public school in the light of these studies? I'll thank him very much when I get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I sincerely hope you can thank him as soon as possible. The last of the MPs to be reported is fellow Member Ivan Yelen, who asked the Ministry of Finance his question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, Government Representative. The sale of New Credit Bank Maribor is known to have sold 25% of the shares to institutional investors. In this regard, I am interested in your answer to the following four questions: Did institutional investors buy shares under the same conditions as natural persons? Is that what I mean by advance payment? In this sense, were different transactions made regarding payment deadlines? Did all institutional buyers settle the purchases? By 31.12.2007, how much did the amount of institutional investors arrive at the budget or the Ministry of Finance? I wish to have the answer in oral and written form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-28-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u200	Thank you very much. You'll get your answer. But thank you for the exact questions. The script says I have to thank the ministers and the Prime Minister for their presence. Of course I won't do it. I thank Minister Matthew for staying with us until the end. I also interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. on 29 January 2008. Until then, have a nice evening ahead.
