ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u1	Dear Members. I'll inform you that we'll resume the meeting in five minutes. Some unforeseen circumstances have arisen, so please continue the meeting in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u2	Dear Members! We're moving to 14. INSPECTION OF THE PERIOD OF THE PERIOD OF THE PERIOD OF THE PERIOD OF THE NON-CONFORMITY OF THE POLITICAL ACCOUNTS OF THE PURPOSE OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONS COOPERED IN THE PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUILDING OF LIGHT WHEELED VEHICLES 6X6, GOVERNMENTAL YEAR, HAVBIC 155 MIMITERS, FIELD MANAGEMENT SYSTEM, AIR PILATUS AND RENEWAL OF T55-S TANKS FINANCED IN THE BASIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME OF THE DEFINITIVE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC IN 1994-2007 The report was submitted to the Council by the Investigative Commission to establish the political responsibility of the public function holders involved in the preparation and implementation of the purchase of light armoured wheeled vehicles 6x6, government year, haubic 155 millimetres, fire management system, aircraft pillatus and recovery of T55-S tanks financed under the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994 to 2007, because of the suspicion that the transactions were politically negotiated, operated in a non-transparent manner and because of suspicion of the presence of clientism and corruption and the suspicion of the responsibility of the holders of public functions in disarming the former territorial defence. Member Aurelio Juri and Mr Anton Anderlič gave a separate opinion on the panel. Before we go to the introductory and debate on the report, I would like to remind you that the investigative commission has prepared an annex to the report, which is of an internal nature, to the individual documents examined by the investigative commission regarding the preparation of the report, and also bear a higher level of secrecy. If you intend to discuss these materials, please inform the President in advance, because in this case part of the meeting will have to be held without public presence. I give the floor to the President, Mr Zvonk Černač, for an additional explanation of the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u3	Dear colleague, dear colleagues, everyone else is present. At the request of Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, the Commission of Inquiry was appointed at the 27th meeting of the National Assembly on 26 April 2007. The composition of the Commission was determined by the National Assembly at its 28th meeting on 31 May last year. By means of the act of designation, the National Assembly established the purpose of the investigation. First time. To determine whether projects carried out in the framework of the implementation of the basic development programmes at the Ministry of Defence have been carried out transparently and with the care of the good host. Another time. To determine whether the tenders and signed contracts for those projects were carried out in accordance with the rules and guidelines adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Third time. Identify and clarify the terms and procedures for the award of contracts of a confidential nature, origin of tenders, negotiations and the content of contracts. Fourth time. To determine whether purchases have been made through intermediaries. Fifth. Finding out what the interest is and what links or related transactions were behind the purchases. Six. Check, prove or doubt the direct and direct link between natural and legal persons and public function holders. It's a week. Identify the degree of involvement of individual public function holders. Eight. Identify the level of political responsibility of individual public function holders in the execution of individual projects. Nine. Identify, prove or disprove the State's alleged injury to those projects. Ten years. Identify the useful value of the equipment purchased and the degree of its functional utility for the defence readiness of the State. Eleventh time. To determine whether the National Council of Purchases was properly and in good time. And the 12th. Identify some responsibility of the holders of public functions in explaining the former Territorial Defence. In accordance with the instructions of the National Assembly resulting from the parliamentary inquiry, the Commission of Inquiry found the following on the basis of the evidence produced. Firstly, most projects in the framework of the implementation of basic development programmes at the Ministry of Defence which have been investigated have not been carried out with sufficient transparency and due diligence of the good host. Secondly, that in no case has an invitation to tender been issued for the purchase of equipment and that in most cases the order was made on the basis of a direct order, even in some cases without proper price and quality verification. Thirdly, in individual cases, purchases were made through intermediaries. Fourthly, in the background of some business by-products were the then ruling LDS, in particular when purchasing light armoured vehicles 6x6, where the sale of the state company Systemic technique by the then government mags. Antona Roba at a significant price to Viator and Vector, a client colleague of LDS Zdenka Pavčka, provided non-transparent transactions described in this report, since vehicles 6x6 were procured directly and following a very simplified procedure. The result was a number of delays in supply, no penalties were charged, no other damage. Fifthly, there is a high likelihood that some other purchases under investigation also had party and other links between individual business operators or between natural persons and legal persons and public function holders. Sixthly, the political responsibility of certain public function holders in the execution of individual projects under investigation was great, but has never been established, since they had previously ceased their mandate. For the week that the country was and is still, in the case of falcon due to the way in which the operation was carried out, the individual purchases were managed economically and with the aim of maximising the effects. It considers that the useful value of equipment which is the subject of an investigation or its functional utility for defence preparedness is small, null or inverse to the cost of purchase. It is a restored thin, Israeli hubs and an ACCS fire management system. Ninethly, the utility values of the individual equipment subject to investigation are not available for the country, as it is not possible to apply the adverse decisions to the country due to incorrect, uneconomic and unfavourable decisions. It's a Falcon plane. The decade that the remaining equipment under investigation for defence preparedness takes into account the timing of the decision-making is appropriate. These are light armoured vehicles 6x6 and Pilate aircraft, but purchases did not respect the principle of economy and transparency. The 11th time that the National Assembly on purchases of equipment subject to investigation has not always been properly and in good time, neither in the preparatory phase nor in the execution phase. The 12th time that the highest responsibility lies for disarming the former Territorial Defence since May 1990 at the then Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia. At its first meeting, held on 15 June 2007, the Commission adopted a decision on the execution of preparatory acts requiring and obtaining from certain State and other authorities documentation relating to the investigation, namely the Ministry of Defence or the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the General Secretariat of the Government of Slovenia, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the other bodies. Following a review of this dossier, the Commission adopted at its meeting on 14 September 2007 an evidentiary decision stipulating that the investigation would be carried out with the following actions. Firstly, by looking at the material obtained by the Commission on the basis of the above-mentioned decision on the conduct of preparatory investigations, the Commission took the express decision to consider an examination in accordance with the letter sent to the members of the Commission on 16 July 2007. Second, taking into account the weapons systems established by the decision on the execution of preparatory investigations, namely light armoured wheeled vehicle 6x6, havbic 155 millimetres, fire management system [[ACCS]] the renewed tanks and the plane pillatus and the interrogation of the witnesses of the Magi. Anton Ropa, former President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mirk Bandlja, former Secretary General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Iztok Podbregar, former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence and Mr. Zdenk Pavčka, Director of the Viator Group and Vector. At the meeting, an extension of the evidence decision was proposed by hearing additional witnesses, which was not adopted. The written request for new witnesses was not re-submitted by two members of the Commission until 22 May of this year, after the final report was announced. However, after an eight-wheel drive was announced on the investigative commission investigating the purchase of eight-wheelers by the chairman of this commission, it was 6. 6th this year, a few days before the final report was considered, an additional request was made on our committee for the hearing of Milan M. Squeezing. The Commission voted on these proposals and none was adopted. According to the evidentiary decision, the Commission carried out inspections of weapons systems in Vojašnica Pivka and Vojašnica Cerklje ob Krka. The members received most of the replies to the views and the rest subsequently in writing by letters dated 4. Ten. 2007 and 22 Ten. 2007 The Commission heard witnesses in accordance with the evidentiary decision. On the basis of the evidentiary decision, an examination was made of the extensive material and documentation bearing the various confidentiality marks. Therefore, the list of documents of a confidential nature and the annex to this report shall be made available. In view of the fact that over 90% of the material bears different confidentiality marks, the question arose in the examination of this report as to whether the report could be dealt with in public. Experiences in similar cases, when the signs of secrecy are created with different stories that do not reflect the actual situation, have led us to decide to at least make substantive findings available to the general public. At the time of the obstruction of Vice-President Aurelia Juri and Commissioner Anton Anderlič, the report was adopted unanimously. Today, we received a so-called separate opinion from both appointed members of the Commission. In a formal sense, it would be difficult to call it that; it is more a position that could be presented in the context of the position of the groups of Members or in the context of their deliberations, but let us leave it. I expected this opinion very much earlier, not after a month of adoption of the report. Since then, I have said that I look forward to receiving new knowledge that will enhance our work. I also said that it would be very difficult to contradict the findings of the report. And this separate opinion proves that no conclusion of the report by what we received on the table today has been rejected, but the written conclusion that we have already observed somewhere that the report was made on the basis of the work carried out is credible, full of value judgements and flat-rate findings without serious argument or evidence that all the findings set out in the report are questionable. None of these claims have been substantiated and none of these claims have been established. These claims also concern, if measured with the same vats, the same values. Arms purchases have always been a subject of public and political interest in Slovenia alone. The reason lies probably in the fact that after the independence and transformation of our territorial defence into the Slovenian Army, it was necessary to organise and make appropriate decisions quickly. On the other hand, the purchases of military techniques are always linked to large sums of money and on this side are particularly interesting both for the public and for politics. During the period following the independence, we were part of the restless zone and also because of the slow reaction of the then republican presidency in May 1990, resulting from the findings of this report, without the appropriate weapons. For these reasons, the assessment of individual purchases or decisions should be based on the moment at which these decisions were taken. If we look at our current position, then many of the decisions that we are talking about in this report are neither rational nor economic. This finding may apply in particular to the period immediately after independence. After that, especially after the adoption of the basic development programmes of the defence forces in the Republic of Slovenia in 1994, there is no more reason for us not to operate in the military as we do in all other parts of the public or state administration. According to further findings, the general assessment is that the principle of economy was neglected in most purchases under investigation. Most of the purchases in the area covered by this report were made directly, without proper verification of prices and other terms of purchase. No invitation to tender has been issued for any of the purchases covered by this contract. Even in cases where different suppliers were weighing, the circumstances of the choice show that in a number of cases the transaction or supplier had already been pre-arranged or known, and with subsequent procedures only a formal impression of competition in acquisitions was sought. When we look at the individual purchases that have already been mentioned, it is clear from these principles that the purchase and subsequent broadcasting of government aircraft and the supply of armoured vehicles 6x6, where these events, which we are looking at in the documentation that was reviewed, were intended to upgrade this procedure with additional activities in the field of supply 8x8, is said to result in procedures that are not called for without public testing of these offers, in order to lead to the conclusion that after the State has sold the majority share in the Systemic Engineering of Viktor Vector and it has been signed in writing on the purpose of 8x8, this transaction entrusted to this company. On the basis of all the above findings, the Commission of Inquiry adopted several conclusions proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. The first decision we propose is of a finding nature and does not refer to the adoption of conclusions which form part of this report. The second conclusion, which is divided into three points, is one that somehow sums up the essential findings of what the National Assembly has mandated us to do. We therefore propose that the National Assembly find, for the first time, that purchases under investigation have not sufficiently respected the principles of economy, the benefits for the country, efficiency, utility and rational treatment of public funds and that in many cases there has been an irregular use of public funds. Secondly, the political responsibility of individual holders of political functions in relation to the subject matter of the investigation was high, but it has never been established that they had previously resigned or been replaced and no longer occupied by more important political functions. Thirdly, the purchase of light armoured wheeled vehicles 6x6 in connection with the sale of Systemics in 2003 to Viator and Vector and the leasing of a falcon government aircraft show that it is not only the political connections of the then main actors, the visible members of LDS, mag. Anton Ropa, then Prime Minister of the Government, and Zdenko Pavčka, owner and CEO of the Viator&Vector Group, and non-economic and political corruption, but suspected of illegality in the conduct of these transactions. The National Assembly therefore expects the competent authorities to investigate these matters accordingly. Last conclusion: The National Assembly notes that following the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO, standards have been raised regarding the acquisition of military equipment and more transparent and cost-effective purchases are also allowed by amended public procurement legislation. These are the conclusions that we are proposing and are based on what we have found in this investigation. We believe that they are a good way to make a more cost-effective and rational course in the future in this area. We also believe that the standards in the procurement and procurement of equipment in the field of weapons technology have recently been raised and changed, so we believe that the conclusions we propose are appropriate and we offer them to you for treatment and reception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although I am an alternate member or deputy to Mr Victory Jelinčič on this committee, I have participated in meetings and I must say that I was saddened by the fact that we found out how we were actually throwing money into the air through the open door and the window. It is true that now to share evidence with one or another, to seek the responsibility of individuals, is unproductive, because we know that for this, I will not use here the ugly words that have happened, nor will anyone answer. You could call this a mess, you could call it a "slamparium," you could call it a lot, but sadly, it's sadder that no one's going to answer for it. That's the saddest fact. Renovation of T55 tanks is the most controversial project for me. Let's leave the plane a pilotus, leave the disputed hawbice which, in fact, have been in some way useless and never fully tested, but what was happening in this old iron, when we 30 tanks, so-called, qualified and for each of us gave a million 750 thousand euros, but today they stand in some hangar completely useless, closed, preserved and waiting for the Minister to allow write-off, the depreciation value is already minus 100%, already of those 100 even down 100, so they are totally useless that we, after all, approved it in full consciousness, that is, a kind of incompetence, a nonsalanca or maybe some good business. Mr Kacin, the current European Member of Parliament, was fully responsible for this at the time. And I believe nothing will happen to him. And think, ladies and gentlemen, about what we could do with this money or what we could buy for defense, for defence purposes with this money. Today, this is unhelpful, takes up space and requires professional staff to maintain themselves through interventions that are necessary. It is a completely irresponsible business, which was essentially signed in full consciousness. The fact is that the existing cases that were envisaged for renewal have also been written down and written down. Imagine what we've been updating, and we haven't had the ammunition for it anymore, we've put the funds written down into upgrades, and we've been earmarking some extra equipment for it, and we've spent millions of dollars in euros. The other thing that bothers me and is the fact in this report, but also probably taxpayers, are so-called haubics, which we have heard a lot of bad words in the past, and even today we can talk about whether we don't even know whether this works 100% or not, because it has not been tested in such a form as it is supposed to maneuver the ability of this weapon. For the first time, fear of something happening again that might take some life, and for the second time, because we do not have the appropriate terrain configuration and we do not even have the right shells to test it. I've been involved in both matters, and I've seen it. The fact is, what the report says is true. And the fact is that this commission is also one of the committees that will have the intention of talking about what was wrong and perhaps pointing to the culprits, but tomorrow or tomorrow we will forget what we were saying today, which is not right. In the world, governments give up only because of suspicion of corruption, customerism or improper conduct in the management of entrusted tasks, individual ministers resign, we may have a place, we may have a slump, there may be some kind of connected business, and nothing happens. I'm sure these gentlemen will still be rewarded. Who in Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, can claim that buying a government plane is a strategically good move? I'd like to see someone who can say that again today. The witness, Mirko Bandell, has the courage. He can do this, and today he claims that it was strategically important at the time, and still today is essentially the priority of the Republic of Slovenia number 1. And finally, we're talking about the biggest budget consumer, this is the defence ministry. Look at all this nonsense. That's why we have so many fewer hospitals, which is why we have so many more social problems, which is why we have so many unemployed people today. That's why the culprits are here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u7	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice greeting! In this mandate, two committees investigated the weapons. The one led by Member Montenegro and whose report we are dealing with and whose report is before us. And a committee run by the Magi. A violin, which has not yet presented the results of its boisterous and, we can say, even the vehement work of the National Assembly. In the Group, after deciding to re-apply with the commission of inquiry on arms purchases, we proposed the establishment of an investigative commission led by the opposition, which, in addition to the acquisition of 8x8, would explore some of the previous procurements approved by the previous governments and carried out by the Slovenian Army. The purpose of the Commission of Inquiry is not to determine what would have happened if, as is now the case in the investigation of 8x8, it was mainly to determine on what political and professional basis the decisions had concrete consequences, as the Commission has pointed out. Otherwise, the investigation is conducted as a matter of fact rather than as a result of deliberate actions. However, the opposition did not agree to a joint commission, and it did not agree that the same commission of inquiry itself would investigate the process of purchasing a modern armor 8x8 and an older model 6x6 and that some purchases of obsolete or limited-use equipment for the Slovenian Army, such as tanks 55S, desert hoods 155 millimetres, sawdusts, fire or falcon systems. The opposition rejected the merger, opposed it, and so we received two investigative commissions. What the report, as I have already said, has been submitted and is now being addressed, and the Commission, which the media have named, I can say, is a kind of "Twikling Commission" that deals primarily with itself, mainly because of the problems leading the Commission. Members have resigned from the last commission, which is why the Cwickel Commission is operating at the border of contiguousness. There are also many problems due to the hiring of expensive external advisers, spectacular announcements in the media. Nevertheless, the results of the work, the so-called Squeak Commission, are not yet there. The President of the Commission, who, due to the suspicion of political and business involvement in the procurement of eight times eight times before the commission, is drowning in all the facts of this testimony. It does not agree to be subject to the same legal and commercial provisions as other invited witnesses or in the project of the engaged person. He wants some special status, some exclusive solution. A few days ago, a letter from Peter Zupan, a former defence minister who described very carefully how to deal with the System Technology in the procurement of weapons, the notes, and how to get everything done and who to lobby, so that there will be no problems in the business that is going on, that is six times six, and not in the business that he was predicting, is eight times eight. Of course, there is no lack of guidance on how to prepare requirements for the payment of exchange rate differences and how to formulate MORS claims for repairs that the manufacturer would otherwise have to fix free of charge within the framework of guarantees and so on. The director of the Viator&Vektor, who is also the owner of the Systemic Technology, is Mr Pavček, a member of the LDS, stated during the hearing at the investigative commission under oath that the part of the purchase agreement between the Government and its Viator&Vector was also a letter of intent for which the government of Rob, at the time of the sale of Systemic Technology to Viator&Vektor, the buyer, is Pavčkov Viator&Vektor, was also endowed with the weapons business of the century. That's eight times eight. Of course, all acts before and even this letter of intent were carried out without any prior review, without any public procurement procedure. Everything was only done on the basis of a conversation on a few pairs of eyes. Eight times eight, the business of the century, was to receive Systemic Technique or Pavčkov Viator&Vector only on the basis of a conversation, only based on an agreement between the Robbery Government and a member of the Liberal Democracy, was also a member of that government. Clearly, that government had a completely different business culture than the current government. More or less are all purchases of military equipment investigated by this commission, including 6x6, as well as future purchases, this was business 8x8, this would only take place on the basis of the agreement of a few people. The 2004 elections interrupted this imprudent flow of events, transactions, orders and payments. By the way, if I mention that something like this is also being announced in an alternative economic programme of one of the political parties. This is a different way of saying it, not the concept that is now in force. All that I have just said has probably been a very important reason not to have one investigative commission. And that's probably why the president of that other investigative commission shouted so much. That is why it is neither surprising nor the obstruction of members of the opposition, nor of some opposition parties, nor of the Committee of Defence, nor of the Commission of Inquiry, whose report we are considering. All of this points to the fact that both SD and LDS are very deeply involved in this arms story. When they all agreed on a few sets of eyes, no invitation to tender, they also prepared the basis for the realisation of business. It was therefore necessary, in particular, to raise dust elsewhere, in other areas, in other purchases, where long SD and LDS hunters did not reach the intended prey. And that's where they see the most fears, and that's Mr. Squeakl, Rob, and some others. By the way, the former Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Rope at this point, when part of his activities are being addressed, is not in the Chamber, nor was he at the previous point, which was also so important in these matters when we addressed the very delicate topic of state relations. With regard to the work of this Commission, we can say that this Commission of Inquiry has been in the short term, acting for only a few more years, has prepared a report, conclusions endorsed by most members of the Commission. No one voted against it. Unlike the commission investigating 8x8 led by Mr. SD Swickl, this commission has completed its full-time work, no one has stepped down. She seemed quiet without a media pump. Her work was repeatedly ignored and unobserved, but the work ended with a report and conclusions. The costs of this commission were only a few hundred euros. That's how we track it in the report. Unlike the Squeakles Commission, which hired extremely expensive external advisers from its political-business cycle, she bought books and more. However we are now addressing this report from this Commission, we are actually coming across a circle around the former President and the Liberal Democracy of the week: Robbery, Pavčka, Bandlja. However, we can also find that an important part of these capacities have recently moved from LDS, LDS's transition "machineries" to Pahor and SD. And he's still there. No invitation to tender has been issued for any of the purchases covered by this report. The supplier or suppliers were known in advance, so everything was agreed between the main players. The Commission notes that the purchases were not rational and economical. As a rule, however, the military equipment procured has not been and is still not available today or has been provided with high additional costs. T55 tanks are preserved and are slowly becoming old iron, 155 mm hoods required victims because their desert undercarriage was not adapted to our situation and terrain. Pilatus left no guarantees due to processing. Six-by-six-by-six-by-six-by-six-six-by-six-by-six-six-by-six. Falcone hasn't been in our country in years anyway. In the 6x6 arms business, there's a lot of money turned around, over 80 million euros. However, I believe that the turning point came in May 2003, when the Robbery Government agreed with LDS Director Viator&Vektor Pavčko to sell him a majority share of the System Technology for a price that did not reach the price of one armor. At the time of the preparation of this arrangement, i.e. at the time of the conclusion of this purchase contract, the government ordered 36 more armoured 6x6 so-called waves for almost 30 million euros. Despite the fact that the previous deliveries were not regular, that there were delays, technical problems, breakdowns, problems in meeting guarantees. In short, for a purchase less than one wave and with an order of 36 additional armoured personnel, the Government has actually donated the Systemic technique to the Viator&Vector. The technology of the procedure was also interesting. First, on 23 January 2003, a proposal for order 6x6 was prepared. In it, the MORS for each configuration wrote the expected value. 4 days later, the government issued a decision to initiate the 6x6 procurement procedure and in the conclusion stated that the supplier is Systemic Technology. Within four days, a few days, that is to say on February 3rd, the Systemic Technicians were sent an invitation to tender and the currency rewritten was only a few days. That's what she says. She's got a week's worth of system technology at her disposal to make an offer. It is necessary to say that the System Technology has made a tremendous effort and has submitted the offer not in seven as proposed, but in four days, only on four pages. In this proposal, the government's proposal for individual wave configurations has reduced by several thousand euros, reducing the total volume by a few thousand euros, less than a percentage. And as we can see, it was all done incredibly quickly, easily, easily. In the offer, there is no talk of delivery deadlines, no talk of guarantees or anything else. What is now so controversial about one of the other purchases, which otherwise has all this in this offer. The contracting authority did not check the offer prices in competition, so the contract was followed by an annex to the contract and it does not have to be specifically said that the contracting authority suffered exclusively, i.e. the Republic or the State budget. I mentioned earlier that the component of this sales package and this order was a letter of intent for the arms business of the century, that's for 8x8. Without any specification, without any configuration, without any description, deadlines and so on. We can be sure that this business, in the way it was set, would take place at significantly higher prices than is currently taking place on the basis of a call for proposals. And it is likely that the state budget would suffer a very big blow in this business, as in all arms deals. The approach taken by the Government of Rob is therefore quite different from the approach taken by the current government in the procurement of 8x8. This contract, which was actually carried out by the Cwickle Commission, was made on the basis of an invitation to tender, on the basis of which it called on the tenderers to withdraw the documentation, that the two tenderers responded and, on the basis of a comparative analysis, the best bidder was selected. Obviously, this is why this other investigative commission has such a very difficult job that Mr Squeakl is suffering so much because, above all, due to a well-managed procedure, he has difficulty in proving injury. Actually, it's very difficult, almost impossible. On business 6x6 Mr. Pavček's statement that the component of this order was a letter of intent for business in addition to the EUR 30 million, which is also the budget of the municipality with 30,000 inhabitants, including the Bianca order or Bianca deal for the arms business of the century. This happened back in 2003. As early as 2003, it was decided that the business of the century, the arms trade of the century, should be awarded to Systemic Technology, without a contract, without a public invitation to tender. This government has not opted for a headlong continuation of the politically agreed business, but has launched a call for proposals and has not been successful in this competitive fight. The invitation to tender was also the only way to break up with a headless spending of public money. This is one of the key reasons or perhaps even the only reason for the formation of the Squeak's investigative commission. The task of the Brickle Investigation Commission, which is confirmed by these latest facts, is to preserve the privileged position of the largest investment consumer from the arms trades of the state budget without a call for tender, this is Systemic Technology. The whole of the Squeak's circus is only happening because the system technique on the call was unsuccessful and the money flow from the state budget was cut short. The annexes to the contract were prevented and, on the basis of the invitation to tender, the State finally reached the content, the deadlines, the guarantees, everything that was missing from all these previous purchases. It was no different from the other arms deals dealt with by the Commission. According to the report, according to the Commission's findings, the conclusions are correct, and we will support them in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and expect them to follow the relevant decisions of the competent authorities on this basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban, please. What do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u9	I am taking advantage of procedural questions and I would ask you, Mr President, to explain to us what we are talking about today. Or 6x6 armors or 8x8? Because I've been listening all the time to the story of Squeak and 8x8, about the patriotic, but very little about what it says here that I don't read the whole text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We have not seen the point made by the Social Democrats in the commission of inquiry, which was sought by the coalition, in order to "like" to examine the circumstances and to identify the responsibilities of the holders of public functions with the alleged acquisitions of military equipment in previous mandates, so we have already said as soon as the proposal for it has been made. And that we have only detected here an attempt to prevent or make it difficult for the work of the investigative commission, which we requested in the opposition in the wake of the suspicion of malversion, at the beginning and still today, a signed but not yet realized deal with the Finnish Patrio for the supply of 135 armored 8x8, we warned when the coalition tried to attach its interest to our investigation. So, and this is an important circumstance why we did not agree to merge the investigation, follow the chronology of purchases, and come to the current armored men if they could come, eventually. The negotiations were about this merger and the coalition had very clear requirements: let's unite, but let's go in order. Let's start with the first purchases in 1994, and if we do, we'll get to the present one. That's why we didn't agree to it. The coalition maneuver did not come out at the time because we insisted in the opposition that we, however, should look into business with current and not yet supplied armor. But since the coalition didn't give up, we got two commissions. Ours, however, colleagues and colleagues of government parties, have managed to decapitate and prevent her from doing her job until the end, will probably be more tomorrow - I hope not today - when you vote, and I believe that you will also vote to dismiss her president, Comrade Cricket, because he has lured too much of the unpleasant truths about the so-called 'job of the century'. Yours, however, is being dedicated today through a report delivered to us by her President, colleague Cernač. The report confirms that we were right to object to such a commission. There are many claims and valuations and evidence for them for the sample, which is not surprising at such a superficial and close proximity to the work done. You have gathered at only five sessions, of which, remember, two preparatory and two interrogation sessions, and boast - without cost. In Istria we say, "poco soldiers, poco music, "a little money, a little music." So I don't know if it's worth boasting that there was no cost and that it cost just about 100 euros. The Commission has not established in any way, so that the judgments delivered could not be contested as to whether the projects carried out in the framework of the implementation of the basic development programmes at the Ministry of Defence during the period 1994-2007 were carried out transparently and with the care of the good host; it did not determine whether the tenders and signed contracts of those projects were carried out in accordance with the rules and guidelines adopted by the National Assembly; it did not determine what the interests were and what links or related transactions were in the background of the buy and what degree of involvement and hence the political responsibilities of the individual holders of public functions with their political impact on the selection, negotiation and signature of the contracts. It did not determine whether, how and where the country was damaged in the investigation projects; it did not determine whether the equipment purchased affected the defence readiness of the State and the fulfilment of its international obligations; it did not determine which one of the holders of the public functions carried out and was still responsible for disarming the former Territorial Defence because it failed to carry out the appropriate investigation. The only findings that they may hold are that they were, as in the case of the current intermediaries, the obvious practice continues here, and that the State Acquisitions Assembly was not well aware of both the preparatory phase and the performance phase. Apparently, the opposition at the time, the current coalition, which chaired the Defence Committee - the Defence Committee - has, of course, been the first supervisor to do so. Thank God or thank my colleague Anderlich, it's different today! In order to find more and more reliable, the Commission should make a little effort to meet more frequently, to understand the content required and the documentation received had not been discussed among the members, and in particular to hear all the major public function holders involved in the investigative purchases; in particular, it should approach the work without predetermined targets of the attack that we have heard when we receive the proposal for a evidentiary decision. On the list of the witnesses invited, we then wrote a colleague of Rob, who was also a prime minister and solely responsible for the rental of the Falcon government aircraft; the former Secretary-General of the Government of Mirko Bandlja and the former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence of Iztok Podbregar, who had to say again and only about this aircraft; and the President of the Board Viator&Vektor Zdenka Pavčka, asked about the purchase of 6x6, also in connection with the invitation to tender for the current 8x8 and the purchase of the State Company System Technology. It may just be a coincidence that Rob and Podbregar have been at the centre of SDS for some time because of the statements of the talks between Janša and Sanader regarding the incidents in the Piran Gulf and that Bandelj and Pavček were also important members of LDS. When all the Defence Ministers and Chiefs of Staff were to be recorded on the witness list during the investigative operations and the Prime Minister from that period, and the current Prime Minister Janez Janša and Finance Minister Bajuk, the coalition set a curtain. It prevented the completion of the evidentiary decision. They were obviously important, according to the coalition, for 6x6, for Israeli haubics, for the ACCS fire management system, for tanks, for pillatus, for falcons and for the disarmament of territorial defence only Rob, Bandelj, Podbregar and Pavček. While it is in the report, if you read well, another important name, such as the former LDS, again, Defence Minister Kacin and Grizold, is the same in the role of villains or those responsible for allegedly controversial transactions, and the current Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, is also found in a different role, as the savior of the homeland after the disarmament of the territorial defence, is guilty, as reported in the report, of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia. Well, if not everything, so does the commission and especially its president. More about our concerns and the rejection of the investigation and the statements made in the separate opinion you received on the table today, we have written it with our colleague Anderlic, followed by the Group of Social Democrats. In short, the Social Democrats regard the work of the Commission of Inquiry as extremely insufficient, politically manipulated and motivated and therefore irresponsible to the task and mission of the parliamentary investigation. We will therefore vote against the proposed report and also against all three proposed decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u13	Respectable. We do not have before us the report and conclusions of the commission based on the findings of what the commission of inquiry is supposed to be, but we do have some insinuations, assessments and accusations adopted by the coalition with a known satellite, which always comes to our aid when something is seriously wrong or when there is no other power. The Commission also adopted at a meeting which was then suspended and was due to continue the next day, and also continued to conclude that it would submit an interim report to the National Assembly on the proposal of the same satellite, without our vote, of course. The Magnetogram, which was created or was due to arise after the Commission's meeting on Friday 12th last month with our obstruction and obstruction of colleague Yuri, cannot be obtained, not until today, unless it is written, and the President did not explain whether it was an interim report such as the Commission's decision or whether it was a report as it was written here. But it's not that important, because a report or an interim report doesn't deserve that name. How did the Commission come to be established? It is undeniable that the request of a group of Members to set up a parliamentary inquiry in the event of a purchase of 8x8, after all the mechanisms have been exhausted, even an extraordinary meeting, was convened. We didn't get any answers from the minister, from the government, from all those who should be answering. It remains the last institute specifically defined in the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and is carried out when the termination or when it is not possible to obtain replies which are of a public nature relating to the consumption of tax money relating to the functioning of the rule of law and so on. We had to set up this investigation as a result of these findings of this National Assembly. But look at the fraction, just like before, a few months ago, we witnessed the manoeuvre that occurred at that time in the so-called Mercator case. This report has already been dealt with or has been accelerated by the work of this commission and because we did not want to submit to your rather flattering arguments by joining the commission of inquiry and going from - imagine, since 1994 onwards, when the period of the Minister who is today Prime Minister and, of course, with the purchase break in 2000 when another government was short. And even more, let's go, skip some period and go find out what would happen to the so-called wrong or as you say in the report by the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia on disarmament requirements - very presumptuous, but I will talk about it a little later. And the arguments were such both on the Mandate-Election Commission, both at all the coordinations we had to get this commission of inquiry on the same denominator, that if you want to investigate 8x8, we will investigate everything else. I'm asking you nicely, so, like little kids or those who make phone calls unseemly when someone is speaking in front of a payphone. Let's play a game, it was said. Take a look at the television footage, and you can see it, it is irresponsible, and I will point out once again that the parliamentary inquiry is aimed at determining the responsibility of the holders of political functions in the mandate to which this matter relates is a current mandate. When we came into the situation that we wanted to explore some of the things related to the institutions in this mandate and the spending of money in this mandate, you said, "No, no, no, no, let's go investigate something else." The parliamentary investigation is based very clearly on the legal provisions on which certain provisions of the Penal Code or the Criminal Procedure Act are also applicable and so on. They would be obliged to draw up, in the basic articles of the law, a list of witnesses, investigators or investigators, to produce certain evidence that is carried out in accordance with the procedures prescribed by them - but see the fragment when we drew up the evidence decision at the first meeting, each thought was rejected to include something other than what the SDS Members had brought to the meeting of the commission of inquiry and what others had to confirm that they were sitting on this committee of coalition and satellite types. When we propose to complete the decision, then we have proposed at the first meeting - no, no, no, it is not necessary that when we hear the others we have proposed, you will be able to propose others. We suggest others, you reject them with disgust - we don't need anyone else. Because you have a pre-written report. Because you have insinuations, eyewitnesses, general accusations prepared. And go look at the report. You've seen what and how before. None of the findings were accepted by the Commission. About the area of responsibility in disarming the Territorial Defence - I do not know that I will not tell Mr Kučan because they are allergic when you hear about his last name and name. Why, if you wanted to build the thesis that you put up and you obviously had it written before, it was obviously the highest Slovenian service and so on and so on and so on. Please, very bold. It is very presumptuous and irresponsible to make such claims after eighteen years. It is clear that all the other findings that are in the report 'written over the finger' by your memory or by order from somewhere else, from the headquarters for rapid intervention and quiet liquidation, that this is the way, and if you read, everything that someone else was doing was fine, only the Presidency was doing wrong. When we are also talking about some later findings - if we are talking about 1994. Not to take into account the material strength of Slovenia, not to take into account the international circumstances, not to take into account that there was, however, another danger that we came out of a boiler, that there was no guarantee that we would go to the Partnership for Peace, that we would go to NATO later and so on, and that some decisions were made at that time because the conditions were dictated by those who did not themselves, for example, have been mentioned here as some names of ministers, but there were likely to be such decisions in certain circumstances, within the framework of the authorities, in the framework of the decisions necessary to build up the defence, the defence system in Slovenia and, of course, to ensure security. At the time, ambitions were announced and desires, the political agenda then that we want to be in Euro-Atlantic relations and that we should be compatible with them. It is certain that from this point of view today, when someone wants a tank for a museum, it is best to write it off and take it home for free. This can be a real wish today. But you won't believe it! Once the tanks have been preserved and sent to the warehouse for some time, new strategies and new orientations are emerging also in doctrines and objectives developed by both NATO and the United States of America, which are particularly welcome in this coalition when it comes to any guidance or guidance on how to deal with certain situations. And, of course, it is recommended that in the future armored vehicles can be used mainly in some areas of the world where those vehicles with rubber wheels are less useful. Therefore, it is more than obvious that there was no room or possibility for us to get to the conclusions, but that was prepared in advance, at the four meetings devoted to these issues. It's okay. We were the first ones interested in investigating this. I really don't want to, I've never had anything to do with any of this, except that we've adopted resolutions on national security and in short all the documents that this National Assembly has just adopted, and I don't want to and I don't want to accept accusations and misleading the Slovenian public, except that what happened since 1992 and 1993 is wrong until Slovenia went through this period. And it seems quite improbable to claim that the Systemic Technology is, however, or before, the Slovenian Ironworks - because thank God that something has been sold before, because, otherwise, the Russians would have given it for free - this Government. We just found that out in the National Assembly. But to claim that under conditions where Member States link NATO and also those that are not members of NATO, but participate, say, within the framework of the European Defence Policy, more than 90% of all money is turned inside the country when it comes to equipment, procurement and so on. One of the basic things when we joined NATO was that we would increase the amount for development, for science, for research in the field even when it comes to defence. And what happened in 2008? You've even reduced those modest funds that were intended for this part! And amazingly, for Austria-Hungarians, weapons or equipment for the then military could work on the Ravna; for the old Yugoslavia, for the new Yugoslavia, even for Slovenia, and suddenly, when it is necessary to bring into the story of an intermediary who knows how to trade, it is no longer because it is better that through an intermediary of a foreign-country company we give it home to work for a substantially smaller amount of money. So, these are unworthy, hypocritical claims to me, even when it comes to referring to transparency, to public tendering and so on. Absolutely, absolutely. There's no shame in this. Each order, inquiry and so on must follow procedures in the manner envisaged, and gladly boast now that everything is published, what we intend to buy, on the EDE websites, which is perfectly fine, so that there will be no misunderstanding. But I'm going back to the basic thesis that all countries are looking forward to first figuring out how they're doing with these things at home, investing in development and developing things that they need for themselves and other things to sell. That's how it is in today's world. More was said in this Chamber in March that 95% of the representative planning within NATO was said in this Chamber. I didn't make that up. Remember, if I don't get you a magnetogram. The members of the Defence Committee have heard this in particular. I even think that when someone today says annex - yes, but when I think about the annexes to the construction of motorways and price incentives, I agree with him that this is unacceptable. But when it comes to annexes here, it does not say that these annexes were not concluded to raise prices, but because the Slovenian Army ordered vehicles consecutively, when the Systemic Technology in the framework of the Slovenian Ironworks and also later. Because at first they said, we need so much money, we have so much money, the next vehicles were upgraded, it ended, it seems to me that it was with ambulances, and they just came up with a number, I think 85, depending on the needs, according to the goals, the plans that were being built up and developed, but it wasn't an annex that you'd like to present here negatively. Look what's going on now, but only in this part will I go to that controversial 8x8. We even get 25 of them, unequipped, because we don't know what to do with them. But because by chance they're cheaper now than the defenses on the market, because the eggs are now cheaper than they're going to be tomorrow, regardless of whether their deadline runs out, we're going to buy them today - of course, we've done a bad job! That's the difference. And those Annexes can only be considered relevant in relation to such comparisons. But it is not that important, because it is necessary to return to the beginning of how the coalition was interested that some parliamentary investigation, which has indeed been set up in the way that the law requires, the constitution and so on, should be determined what is at stake. Now that this commission, which you couldn't prevent - otherwise I believe that it would, as in Mercator and elsewhere - now it has turned out to be too far and it is necessary to do the headship that you will do tomorrow. And it is rude, it does not deserve any positive assessment and it is a very bad certificate of this Parliament in relation to respect for the institutions of the rule of law and parliamentary investigation, in the light of, even if you look in Austria, if you look in Germany, if you look in Belgium, if you look elsewhere you will see what kind of city it has. And when it comes to it there is no room to vote on the coalition, to exercise power, to change the topic on the agenda and to write reports that do not build on the findings. I conclude that no position in this report, a decision, is based on the findings of the Commission. The Commission has found nothing! The Commission had hearings, the Commission looked at some things on the ground, and we looked at the documentation. She did not accept such findings and did not come to them. However, it would be very responsible to call the members of the Presidency, those who had taken certain decisions, to the Commission, to ask them, but not to write down a statement of their own free will, that it was a service, that it was irresponsible, that it was a miss move, and so on. I agree that decisions could probably be different, only if we want to find out why they were exactly like that, we need to get answers from those who have taken these decisions or by authentic documents. As it is said, because this is not a report by the investigative commission, because it is not the findings that the Commission would come to, but it is the political pamphlet that I am talking about from the time you were at the first meeting, when we wanted to complete the evidence decision, that you rejected any attempt, that any cooperation has been refused, and since then you have taken full responsibility for the blemish that you have also caused by this investigative commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! We have before us a report from the Investigative Commission on the political responsibility of the public function holders involved in the preparation and implementation of the purchase of light armoured wheeled vehicles 6x6, government aircraft, havbic 155 millimetres, fire management system, Pillatus aircraft and the renewal of T55-S tanks, financed under the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994 to 2007, because of the suspicion that the transactions were politically negotiated, operated in a non-transparent manner and because of suspicion of the presence of clientism and corruption and the suspicion of the responsibility of public officials in disarming the former Territorial Defence. This is the final report of this Commission. I myself proposed this at the last session of the Commission, and this procedural decision was also adopted unanimously. Unfortunately, our colleague and members of the Commission, Mr Anderlič and Mr Juri announced the obstruction at this meeting. If I were there, I'd know. We call short-term members of this committee the Commission of Inquiry 6x6, but there is another commission that we call Members of the Commission of Inquiry 8x8, chaired by Mr Squeakl, but because of it we will probably not experience this parliamentary composition being addressed by the report of these Commissions. The Investigative Commission 6x6 was established on 31 May last year and the first and constitutional meeting was held on 15 June 2007, when a decision was also taken on the execution of preparatory actions requiring the Commission from certain State authorities to transmit the documents used by the Commission in its work. The Commission decided to deliver the material to her. The Ministry of Defence or the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the District Court of Ljubljana. At its second meeting, on 14 September 2007, the Commission of Inquiry adopted an evidentiary decision in which it decided, inter alia, to hear the following witnesses: mag. Anton Ropa, former President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who is also very much missed at this point in the agenda today, Mirko Bandlja, former Secretary General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Iztok Podbregar, former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, member of the special section for negotiations with the aircraft manufacturer, and Zdenka Pavčka, Director of the Viator&Vektor Group, Ljubljana. As a member of the Commission of Inquiry, I will state on behalf of the New Slovenia Group those joint findings of the Commission which we believe should be made known to the Slovenian public. Arms purchases have always been a subject of public and political interest in Slovenia alone. The reason lies probably in the fact that after the independence and transformation of the Territorial Defence into the Slovenian Army, it was necessary to organise and make appropriate decisions quickly. On the other hand, acquisitions of military techniques are always linked to large sums of money and on this side are particularly interesting for both the public and politics. During the period after independence, we were part of the restless zone and also because of the slow reaction of the then republican presidency in May 1990 without the appropriate weapons. For these reasons, the assessment of individual purchases or decisions should be based on the moment at which these decisions were taken. If we look at our current position, then there is no rational or economic decision on which to speak in this report. This finding may apply in particular to the period immediately after independence. After that, and especially after the adoption of the basic development programmes of the defence forces in the Republic of Slovenia in 1994, there is no more reason for us not to operate in the military field as in all other parts of the public or state administration. It must be because of nature that the field of arms is subject to a special procedure or a special rule of the game. Nevertheless, it is essential to always follow the principles of economy, transparency, competitiveness, the public and supervision. Above all, it is the economy that must always be at the forefront of military procurement. It is not only the cheapest purchases that can be understood under this concept, but in particular the utility of equipment according to the objectives we want to pursue. The Commission’s general assessment is that the principle of cost-effectiveness was neglected in most of the purchases that were the subject of the investigation. Most of the purchases in the areas covered by this report were made directly, without proper verification of prices and other terms of purchase. No invitation to tender has been issued for any of the purchases covered by this report. Even in cases where it weighed among the various suppliers, the circumstances of the choice show that the transaction or supplier had already been pre-arranged or known and that the subsequent procedures were merely intended to give a formal impression of competition in procurement. In the case of light armourers, the project started in cooperation between the Austrian company Steyer and the Slovenian ironworks, which were then a state company. At the beginning, this company cannot be challenged. Furthermore, above all, after the sale of the company Systemic technique by the State for the rich price of Viator&Vektor, the purchases took place very domestically. In the case of a government aircraft or falcon, the principle of economics was not respected either when buying or in the case of a later change in the cost of a cheaper aircraft, or at least at the time of leasing. Mr Anton Rop said at the hearing, among other things, as the Slovenian media wrote: "If we wanted to enter successfully," namely, into the European Union," we had to reduce inflation from seven to 2.4%. If we wanted to lower inflation, we had to save." And also, "We reached agreement with the social partners on the basis of the Falcon show." Well, it certainly isn't such a banally simple thing, because a lot of people can then conclude also, thank God we had falcon, or we wouldn't be in the European Union today. This is a case of policy decision-making, which was far from human beings, so she was unable to make and justify her decisions before the public and then not to take responsibility for a bad decision. In order to avoid public criticism, she took the worst decision for the country and for taxpayers. The Israeli haubics and the fire management system are an example of unimaginable procurement, because apparently some other interests have been pursued and not the strengthening of our country's defence capabilities. They're totally inappropriate for our area, and they'll never be in the defense of our country. The acquisition of Pilate aircraft should be assessed in the light of the embargo at that time. Nevertheless, the question arises why three used aircraft were acquired through the Iskra commerciale intermediary, and the rest was directly contracted. It is also interesting in this business that the first contract does not have an anti-corruption clause and everyone else does. With regard to the renewal of T55S tanks, it must be said that all the tanks, thirty of them, have been preserved since 2006 and will probably never be used. They will likely become a few thousand - ton monument to those who have shown by the restoration of these tanks how money is not handled by taxpayers. With regard to disarmament, it is evident from the material provided to us that the disarmament of the Territorial Defence shows the fragility of the relationship of the then republican Presidency, which, in our belief, should strongly require the discharge of the then commander of the territorial defence headquarters of Mr Ivan Hočevar, especially since it has been shown that he has been appointed in contravention of the applicable legislation. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens. The Commission of Inquiry finds, on the basis of the evidence, that there are twelve findings. Firstly, most projects in the framework of the implementation of the basic development programmes at the Ministry of Defence which were the subject of the investigation have not been carried out in a sufficiently transparent manner and with the care of the good host. Secondly, that in no case has an invitation to tender been issued for the purchase of equipment and that in most cases the order was carried out on the basis of a direct order, even in some cases without a proper price and quality check. Thirdly, in individual cases, purchases were made through intermediaries. Fourthly: that in the background of some business by-products were the then ruling LDS, in particular when purchasing light armoured vehicles 6x6, where the sale of the state company Systemic technique by the then government mags. Antona Roba at a significant price to Viator&Vektor by his client colleague LDS Zdenka Pavčka made it possible for non-transparent transactions described in the report, since vehicles 6x6 were procured directly and following a very simplified procedure. The result is a number of delays in supply, no penalties were charged, no other damage. Fifthly, there is a high likelihood that some of the other purchases that are the subject of this investigation also had client and other links between individual operators or between natural and legal persons and public function holders. Sixthly, the political responsibility of certain public function holders in the execution of individual projects under investigation was great, but has never been established since they had previously resigned or were replaced. The week that the country - and is still, mainly due to falcon - was damaged by the way individual purchases were carried out, as individual purchases were not conducted economically and with the aim of maximising the effects. It considers that the usable value of equipment which is the subject of an investigation or its functional utility for the defence readiness of the State is small, zero or inversely proportional to the cost of purchase. This is where the renewed tanks, the Israeli hubs, the ACCS fire management system stand out. Ninethly, the utility values of the individual equipment subject to investigation are not available for the country, as it is not possible to apply the adverse decisions to the country due to incorrect, uneconomic and unfavourable decisions. The decade that the remaining equipment under investigation for defence preparedness takes into account the timing of the decision-making is appropriate, but purchases did not respect the principle of economy and transparency. The 11th time that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on purchases of equipment subject to investigation has not always been adequately and timelyly informed either in the preparation or in the execution phase. And last time, 12th time, it is the highest responsibility for disarming the former Territorial Defence in May 1990 at the then Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia. We in Novi Slovenija are also pleased that the Commission of Inquiry 6x6, and this is thanks to the President of the Commission, Mr Chernač, has been doing rational and cost-effective work, which we cannot claim for the so-called Commission of Squill or Commission of Inquiry 8x8, which has spent irresponsibly - thanks to the President, of course - a few 10,000 euro of money. On the basis of the findings, our Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt some of the conclusions which have already been read from this House and I will not repeat them. The New Slovenia Group will confirm these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u17	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Very cordially greeted young listeners at the gallery. The Commission of Inquiry was established with a view to determining, in particular, whether the purchases in the title of the said weapon were carried out transparently, with the care of the good host and, consequently, whether or not the State was injured. In this context, it was also sought to determine whether individual holders of public functions were illegally involved in certain transactions and, consequently, what their political responsibility was. Repeated purchases of weapons in Slovenia have been and are still subject to great public interest. The reason is probably not the very distant events surrounding Slovenia's independence and the large amounts of money that are always linked to the purchase of military technology and equipment. The purchases of military technology and equipment can be divided into rough periods: the period immediately after the independence until 1994, when the basic development programmes of the defence forces were adopted in the Republic of Slovenia, and the period after 1994. A number of decisions were neither rational nor economic during and immediately after independence, but this should be seen in the context of the situation at that time. During the period after our independence, we were, because of the inadequate and slow decisions of the then republican Presidency, without the appropriate weapons and still in a very troubled and uncertain period. As it is said, after 1994, there is no more reason for us not to operate in the military field as in all other parts of the public administration, especially the principles of transparency and economics, to be at the forefront all the time. As follows from the report and the findings of the Commission, the principle of economic efficiency was neglected in most purchases which were the subject of the investigation. The majority of purchases were made directly, without proper verification of prices and other terms of purchase. No invitation to tender has been issued for any of the purchases. Even in cases where different suppliers were weighing, the supplier was usually already known in advance. On the basis of the summaries and the report of the Commission of Inquiry, it can reasonably be concluded that the State was injured by the manner in which individual purchases were carried out. It was also the responsibility of individual public function holders, which has never been properly explored and identified. Finally, for at least a little optimism, let me summarise the findings of the investigative commission, which notes that after entering NATO, military equipment purchase standards have been raised, which in the future could also contribute to more transparent and cost-effective purchases of military equipment, subject to strict compliance with the rules. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will majority support the proposals of the conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, a procedural proposal. You'll have your word when the debate is over. Now we've got more. No, no more. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a general debate between Members and Members on the report, separate opinions and proposals for conclusions. You have the floor, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer. Some claims have been made that do not hold, but it might be good that the debate does not depart from what we are talking about to clear up now. In this committee, we do not speak as in another, that we cannot confirm, nor disprove, the suspicion. We do not burden ourselves with such speech, nor do we. That's why you gave us this mandate to find out whether something was wrong or not. That's what we figured out. The Commission adopted these findings unanimously following the obstruction of Tonet Anderlič and Aurelia Juri. That's what I said in the introduction, and that's what it is. These are the facts. We cannot say that the report is not based on the findings adopted by the Commission. It's not like that. I also do not understand what has been said that the findings have been written from the headquarters of rapid intervention and rapid liquidation. It's a very harsh insult, a very harsh insult. The findings were written in the National Assembly with the assistance of all those who participated in the Commission and with the assistance of the professional services and which stem from the facts are based on what is written in large-scale material. However, I believe that many people have not had time to look at this material, and that is why they can now point out such simple claims here. I expected that in this separate opinion, my fellow Members would reject at least one of the findings that they would say about at least one of the twelve points: 'Don't hold on for this and this reason'. None of the findings were rejected. Excuse me. None of these findings that stand here have been rejected. Not one. With regard to the disarmament of the Territorial Defence. We came from documentation obtained from the Office of the President of the Republic and from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. This documentation is very clear and indisputable. It also contains a number of magnetograms. This documentation makes it very clear how things happened in those days. It was a matter of making decisions that would have to be made within the hour, not to say in minutes. 15. 5. 1990 Disarmament Order, 17. 5th Bureau meeting, which was informed of this, found that it would not discuss it, but postponed it to 18. 5. The time limit for the execution of the sentence was 19. 5. on the part of many headquarters, provincial and others, there is a great deal of concern about what to do. We know the situation in which these things happened, and that the threats to physical destruction occurred, and people were acting on their own. And what happens in those days, instead of the clear and decisive reaction of the highest authority of the Republic Presidency, was adopted by 18. The 5th decision or a letter to the SFRJ Presidency expressly stressed that, in so far as there is a better security of arms, the order is not opposed and that it should not be enforced where the Territorial Defence is already carrying out the appropriate protection of its weapons. The reaction in this case should, of course, be different. It should be different, and that comes from the findings. The fact is that things started to happen in the right way only later, after the relevant decisions were adopted in the Republic Assembly and only after that did things at least partially recover. But those events, those few days, they can't be contradicted and you can't get past them, and that's the facts. They hurt someone, I understand, but it cannot be written that it was someone responsible who, contrary to this command, risked his life and did not carry out this command. Despite the fact that he did not have the highest authority covered during that period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u20	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, do you have a procedural proposal or something? [[...]] Here you go. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] Here you go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u21	Look, it's undeniable that Mr. President has been fooling around here again. I will not say, today there have been so many words, lies and so forth out of the mouth of members of the coalition, particularly the SDS. You boasted, Mr President, 'I wrote the report myself'. This has been published in the media. You were just saying that it was coming from the commission, that we were supposed to design it together, and so forth, and professional services. You're still 14 days ago or three weeks ago in the hot chair before it was shut down, because apparently it's too small for you, but I won't go any further if the prosecutor gets upset, but I wouldn't. [[...]] But you bragged about this hot chair. The findings from the anonymity allegedly obtained by a gentleman in the drawer are consistent and are identical with the findings of the parliamentary inquiry, allegedly your commission. It wasn't called 6x6, it was called Black. And today you're saying something completely different. Where did the report come from? When did you come to the conclusion? You're not. At the first meeting, where we drew up the evidence, you rejected any involvement of other witnesses in the process or in the formation of a joint proposal, but you brought it in writing, we received the SDS written in the session, which four should be heard. When we proposed that we go along the way, that we should also identify the subjects, that we would have a more solid debate about who is politically responsible, or that we are carrying out a political function to be able to process it as an investigator, you refused. We've proposed the execution of some other evidence, you've refused. There will be time, you said, for the witness proposals. When we propose witnesses, when you continue with the work of the commission, when the first next meeting on your part was convened, you say too late, you had time to do so. Please! It's about things that you put on some of your performances and connotations that are in other Nor does it make any sense to talk. [[...]] About what happened in 1990, and about those people who were far away, far away, no longer performing public functions, but here you're treating them with sterility, with the wrong things, and I don't know what kind of things. It's a bold and irresponsible thing to do, if that's how you can deal with these things from a distance of 20 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u22	Thank you. Mr. Croat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. It's interesting to listen to discussions about how some people are protecting themselves, I'll call it, higher interests. Military purchases are always linked to large sums of money and, clearly, interest, both to the public and to the politicians themselves, is also appropriate. In the report "The Black Commission", which worked substantially differently from the work of the other commission, which I am vice-president of, i.e., the investigative commission investigating 6x6, they worked very quietly, industriously, without any media spectacle and eventually came to the final report. They got to the bottom of it, and there were a lot of mistakes. But that was the way it was done at home, and I couldn't imagine it, and it's actually unacceptable that this was the way it was done in those days. So, the damage to us taxpayers according to the findings of this commission of inquiry is enormous. And there was no economy, there was no transparency, there was no competitiveness and there was no control. Orders were made directly without price checks, there were no invitations to tender or were only apparent. And since I'm doing my own acquisition investigation, 8x8 I'm going to stay right here at 6x6. You know, what happened at 6x6 at the time was very worrying. And if I compare now that I know shopping when it was 6x6 and now 8x8 I can say it's like night and day. The proceedings took place night and day. Look, 9. 5. 2003 The system technique was purchased by Viator&Vector for the price of one wave and in a pocket with a contract for another 80 waves. In addition, they obtained a license for 8x8, which already indicates that everything was already set up and agreed that business of 8x8 would only proceed spontaneously. That's unacceptable. You've been interrupted or suspended by a power shift. Most interestingly, the System Technology has received €83 million in contracts, four contracts have been concluded, more than 20 annexes to these contracts have been concluded, and the price has risen by €12 million, but no one wants to talk about it anymore, by €12 million, which means 1 eighth of the complete contract, this has been added to the annex without public invitations to tender. And I wonder where that money is today, but that's another question. Well, as I have already said, this is a pattern of conduct that the president of one other commission would like to speak of, which would continue nicely in this mandate, unless there was a change of power, where it began to work transparently and in accordance with legislation. Look, there's an interesting comparison between these two commissions. The "Black Commission" has come to conclusions, indisputable findings and also proposes concrete conclusions. Today, Mr Squeakl presented a report, which he actually wrote himself, he wrote it himself, I did not even see it when it was being prepared, and he made it clear that we cannot raise suspicion, but we cannot confirm it. So, actually, it's about swindling, misdirecting some. But here in this committee, they came to concrete conclusions. Look, we've heard from a committee of 8x8 14 witnesses, and not one has confirmed what Mr. Squeakl is talking about, not one. And then it's clear that you can't disprove suspicion. However, in the Black Commission, the facts supported by the documents, that is also, on the basis of the testimonies, it is clear from the magnetograms that they were actually carrying out or there were many, many irregularities. If I just say business is 6x6 compared to 8x8 like night and day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u25	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! As a Member, I understand that the State must form institutions in which citizens and citizens have confidence. In the framework of its powers, the National Assembly has also ordered that, in the event of certain irregularities, it may form investigative commissions. And from this point of view, it seems extremely important that when we discuss such pressing problems where there could be deviations in the system, citizens and citizens can see that this is an institution, that is, an investigative commission in which Parliament is willing to go to the bottom of a matter. And as I myself have been thinking about the role of such an investigative commission, I think it makes sense to use this institute only if one who is not in power uses this institute to control the one who is on the roof. For he who is in authority has all manner of means to use the institutions of the State in all procedures, and to initiates all procedures for the determination of irregularities. [[?]] . If we look at the conduct of this mandate. Do we by our actions encourage confidence in citizens and citizens to want to get to the bottom of the matter? Look at two examples. When the opposition began to point out that there was something wrong with Mercator's sale, the coalition took an intensive approach to forming and running the commission itself, which examines all back-sales. Interestingly, it does not do so in previous periods when the time dimension would be significantly closer. And the commission's report is interesting, even releasing events in Mercator. Today, we have a second example of the investigative commission's report. When is this commission of inquiry established? It was established in 2007, in April. A normal logical question is asked if it has been so wrong since 1994, why the existing coalition has not formed an investigation requirement immediately after the start of the mandate, if it has assessed that none of the system levers works in such a way as to enable it to investigate these matters. But when is this committee set up? This Commission is being set up to re-establish a counterweight to the Commission, which has examined the correctness and irregularities, economic, non-economic behaviour and links with the political responsibility of the holders of the political functions of the existing coalition, the current government. And if we look at this report, if we just evaluate the events from 1994 to 2007, it's easy for a layman to say, "Only four key people participated in these procedures," just four key people, then of course, there's a very small chance that people believe that. Who stayed out of this field and why did they stay out of this field? This cannot be detected from the report and, of course, arrangements and a method of investigation would be needed here, because the Commission should somehow reach conclusions with consensus. This is not the case in this National Assembly, but these commissions are used for the political struggles of the coalition with the opposition, not for certain responsibilities or possible responsibilities to come to the bottom. And, of course, that's regrettable. And I fear that such a way of working and such a way of setting up and working these commissions has created doubts in people for a few years that the National Assembly wants these methods and ways of working to actually shape the truth on very pressing issues. And on the basis of this, it is difficult to agree to this simple truth, because by so doing, I would say, transparent ways of conducting this investigation have also been the conclusions, in my opinion, already known in advance with a clear objective - an investigation of the so-called "Teaching Commission" should be made possible, that is, the commission that conducted the inquiry into the dispute, the economy and the involvement of political function holders in the procurement of 8x8. I think that this is bad, and I think that such a practice will in the future also show a bad light by which citizens and citizens assess the work of this Parliament and I do not think that this is the right way. The Commissions of Inquiry should work by consensus, through proper investigation procedures, to make the right decisions, which, of course, even in Parliament, could be decided by as much consensus as possible. Unfortunately, the practice shows that this is not the case and that the commission is being set up so that we do not come to the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u26	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, did you want a replica or a procedural proposal? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I understand that today, on the agenda, we have a debate on the findings of the political responsibilities of public function holders for the so-called past mandate, not to mention the whole name, and of course I want you to procedurally explain to us why you are allowing a debate that goes through the contents of this report, or then allow others to have the same treatment, because we are now not clear or discussing the report that was presented at today's press conference, the so-called 8x8 investigative commission, or we are discussing the so-called "Black Investigation Commission". I would ask so much that, the President, from your place, ensure, if not another equality of debaters, because I would not want to be, after having to defend myself, warned that I am going beyond the course of the debate. If that's the consensus, it's fine, but there's no telling us that we don't stick to the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor. You already have, yes. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I forgive myself, of course, it was legal and transparent as we hear it, everything was by the book. Some say that social society or party of social non-democrats do not see the sense that the history of the fact has already been swallowed up. LDS, he doesn't have any good con artists, he says it's essentially an untransparent deception. Look, where you're standing in Beer, I've seen them myself, it's worth a million 750 euros apiece, we've restored 30 tanks like this. The Havbice we bought and for which we gave along with the technique and monitoring system of $29 million, at that time the dollar was significantly more valuable than today to remind you of that. Completely useless iron, so we were told in Pivka, and so was I, and we looked at it with experts. Today, when we speak of who is responsible for this, of course they do not want to hear anything about it either the Social Democrats or the LDS, it is said that neither the social non-democracy nor the league of good cheaters wants to hear about it. And, Your Honor, I'm asking you when you're talking about who helped someone, who's going to be responsible for this, whether we're going to hand this report over to the law enforcement agencies that are being paid to catch those who are doing this, or not. Are we just babbling here in the National Assembly or are we just talking about who's what and going to the offended John, Janezka? We had previously listened to the opposition speak abusively about the official record, which was officially available to the Commission, which she officially selected and presented in the report, of course in that report which could be made available to the public. We had to put a quarter of this out because it was official secrecy. But it says there that for the T55 tanks that were already written down and a bunch of old iron contracts were signed and the whole thing was led by the then Jelko Kacin and so on. I will not emphasize the names and names of who was in Systemic Technology, who was there and so on. These are irrelevant facts, now that we know nothing will happen. I would like a minister who is not here today, I don't know where he is, asked if it was a prudent investment, whether we have a weapon that we can use, whether we have a bunch of old iron that we're going to sell tomorrow, I don't know, Iron Jesenice, which is not even Slovenian anymore, to melt into some hardware iron. If this is it, then ladies and gentlemen, someone must also be responsible for what he has signed. Easy. I see 250,000 in this country on the brink of the poverty of living people, and I see a misery that is greater than when we went into seclusion. Everywhere we turn, there's shit. They stole red, black, and I don't know who. Where there's talk of facts, no one's guilty, but look at us there in these pigs, one, two, three, four. These are the obvious pigs you've been doing. You threw taxpayers' money through open windows and doors. You can say this now, one or the other, but these are facts. Speaking of tycoons, you don't want to hear anything. You're deaf about things like this and other things. When the nation comes to the streets and rules the law of the street, you will probably have to wear helmets because people will also walk with baseball sticks. And then there'll be no excuses, and neither will there be any speech, and there'll be no talking, and there'll be no talking, and there'll be no talking, and there'll be no talking, and there'll be no talking, and there'll be no
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr. Skull, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u31	I, Mr President, object to your leadership, not to any improvement. Mr Srečko Friend, your collaborator, or that there will be no misunderstandings, according to Slovenian co-worker, strongly offends parliamentary parties with inappropriate titles. I believe you can agree with him. I believe that you are agreed with him to insult us here, but as long as you are sitting in that seat, I would ask you to uphold the dignity of the Members and Members who have been elected on lists with distinctive names. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u32	Mr. Skull, the insults are flying all over the place. Also, the content of the debate is not always strictly limited to the subject, it is broader, so my predecessor has led. And I think that, in line with Mr Squeak's warning, it would not be right for me to limit the debate to a narrow and strictly mere point. Sir, there is no replica or procedural proposal. Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u33	With all due respect, I would like to correct Mr School, probably sitting on his ears when his colleague Anderlič spoke, using more harsh insults for a pay phone than I did, the real facts. You really are a league of democratic con artists. Because that's what all the procedures prove. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u34	Sir [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u35	whatever you open, fly out fraud and thefts from your system leadership [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u36	Mr. Friend. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u37	Let me say it to the end. If we have already been marked so by Mr Anderlich, let me also remind you that we have also helped you in good ideas when you ruled. But the fact is, we don't want to wash your dirty laundry for the things you've done. And it's time to go both from the right and the left to the cold, ladies and gentlemen, for what he did wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u38	I would ask that we, however, calm down a little bit and establish a minimum of cultural dialogue. Mr Petan has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I might be trying to show the matter by transparency. There was a lot of talk today about this, one of the respected colleagues gave a comparison: day and night. And maybe I'd like to figure out what day is and what night is. I'm going to make a comparison, I'm going to make a comparison between the haubic 155 mm procurement process and the T55-S tank recovery process and the 8x8 procurement process. It would, however, assess in terms of rationality, eligibility of purchase, sense of acquisition, long-term eligibility, responsibility. With regard to compatibility with Nate, however, it is not possible, because we purchased and renewed the hoodies when it was not clear whether we could compete for NATO or not. Well, if I start in the process of acquiring vehicles, 8x8 armored vehicles, I'd like to say that the Ministry of Defense has announced that the state will buy eight-wheel armored vehicles. It was foretold. The invitation to tender followed. They followed the reports. The tests were then carried out by both competitors selected, both the patriotic model and the System Technology model. The assessment of the tests of both vehicles followed, based on technical characteristics, prices, delivery deadlines, vehicle maintenance, and I do not know how many other items there were. It was rated, but I think it was just over 70 items in both vehicles. It was all in the public eye. Practically in all categories, I think at all, the Patricia model won, which was even better and even cheaper. Everything was transparent, everything was happening in public, everything that was going on was public. And if I compare it now with the procedure of purchasing 155 millimetres and restoring T55-S tanks, I can tell you that we've learned everything from the media. We learned about the purchase of hoodies by getting invitations for the ceremony at the takeover in the fortress, so we learned. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] That's how we found out! [[...]] Yes, I can see that a respected colleague still remembers because we've really almost frozen at that event. But it's not that important. It's only then that we found out that we're going to get these hoodies that were already in our possession and they've already been put into use. Now I ask you, where is transparency? Where's the announcement about the purchase? Where's the invitation? Where are the tests? Where's the evaluation of the tests and stuff? Please! I'm not going to tell you what the problem was because I don't want to waste my time because my colleagues are going to want to say something. But I would like to assess such purchases - as far as the haubics are concerned. At the time, no one else was buying tow hoodies, but all cars. Of course, we bought tows to buy more vehicles, because, of course, we gave someone from some company a job again. I'm not going to discuss it. As far as the T55 tanks are concerned. This was basically a mistrial because the T55 restored tank has only 15 horsepower per tonne of weight. So it came after the reconstruction, because they had to add some security stuff and so on. I'm not going to discuss it. Now imagine that you have a car that weighs about one ton and has 14 horsepower. He was 32 years old, and he was even easier than a ton. What did that look like?Oh, my God! And that's in this tank, because it practically can't overcome any obstacles, it's just for the parade, and that's why it's normal to be in the military. The only good part of this reconstruction was that System Technology gained knowledge. I'll admit it. That's the only thing, but we didn't restore tanks to put things in storage then, but to use them, that's the problem. And because it was so untransparent, it doesn't mean that someone can attack a transparent purchase of 8x8 that they can't be more transparent. We may not agree on not knowing anything, but it was transparent, there were tests, there were assessments, there was everything, and the price was lower. And the price was lower. Those are the facts! But you can say whatever you want, you have the right, but the facts are like that. But the problem is somewhere else. The standard of investigation was apparently set up by the 8x8 purchasing commission, which happens to be run by Mr. Squeakl. I can't help it. I have to say this because I want to do a comparison. And it is sad to criticise what was transparent and clear and that the person who runs this committee is personally interested in a competing company through a relative, choosing a consultant from a competing company, disrespecting the Rules of Procedure and accusing transparent purchases, throwing bad lights at Gorenje. What, though, is now to blame in Gorenje for being so good that they can make such products? That's why they need to be spattered. Sorry, that's not how it works. And the lower price, because Patria's price was lower, that's now the element of corruption, so please, usually the higher price is the element of corruption, but not the lower price, let's have a little "collect" what you're saying. However, if this is a bad purchase or a non-transparent purchase that I mentioned to you at the outset that everything was in the public eye, yes, and then a purchase without an invitation to tender, which is more expensive, which holds products under the table, the deal gets a company led by someone from LDS. Yeah, then what's that? And to cover this up, then you went after someone who worked transparently. Patricia 8x8 everything was transparent, everything was in the public eye, but if you didn't follow this, that's your problem. And look, when I said I'd make a comparison, today on one side 8x8 transparent in front of the public, a noise like everything's wrong. The previous case, it's called tank restoration and the purchase of hawbice 155, and everything was under the table. Yeah, well, what can we say to that guy if you buy that kind of noise now? One might wonder if such a way of working and thinking is possible a new alternative SD rule programme for a new period, God help us. If there is a transparent issue for them in the eyes of the public that needs to be brought down and the elements of corruption because the price is lower and, on the other hand, everything under the table of friends is to be praised. You know, that doesn't work. And now transparency, day and night, when one colleague mentioned earlier, yes, that 8x8 is like day, because it was all in the daylight, it was all visible, and that 155 and T55 was all under the table, and that one could really say that it was made like night, in the fact that no one saw anything, no one should have discussed anything. That can't be clear. I would also like to commend the President of this commission, the normally led investigative commission, here again, on the basis of the leadership of the 8x8 commission of Mr. Brickle, who is making fun of everything that is normal. I will support all the conclusions and also support this report, which has been given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u40	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u41	If everything was so transparent, then I ask you nicely, gentlemen, why are the Finnish investigative authorities holding 2 senior officers, Patrie? Why? If, in the past, 6x6, with haubics and so on, everything was not transparent, why did not Dr Andrej Bajuk, former President of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission in the previous mandate, convene at least one meeting on this subject if everything was wrong in the past? If everything has been wrong in the past, gentlemen, why didn't you propose to amend the legislation at the beginning of your mandate? I'll keep talking about the report. See section 1 of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission Act. What do you suggest, gentlemen? What do you propose to do in your so-called programmes of Slovenia on the right track? If Slovenia is on the right track when the Finns are holding two in prison, because of the defence business of the century, which is becoming a corruption affair of the century - then, gentlemen, I don't know where you've been so far? And I congratulate Mr President of the so-called parliamentary parliamentary commission of inquiry on writing a report without hearing, without giving evidence, without preparatory investigations. He's writing a report. This is really a very effective job. We also had to share the referee and the secretary, not to mention what I can confirm by testifying. This report did not come from the expert services of the Commission. This report did not come from the expert services of the Commission. The technical services of the commission are sitting three feet away from me. Maybe the president of the National Assembly and I misunderstood, and I didn't say it was right to talk about report 8x8, because we would be talking about this report if you guys were willing to let us finish our work. You don't even hope to question me like that. And therefore, Mr Petan and some who have dealt with the president of the so-called "Twik's Investigation Commission" today, deal with corruption, please deal with key content: Why did the mediator who did business with Janez Janša? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Why the president of the electoral commission who was under Janez Janša? [[...]] Why was Gorenje, where Dr. Jože Zagozhen’s chairman of the Governing Council was subject to John Janša? And so on, it's a pattern of behavior that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u42	Mr. Squeakle, time for the replica is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I'm done. I wish you, Mr. Petan, if you're worried about intransparency, please ask yourself why they haven't closed any of these deals so far. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u44	Mr. Squeakle [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u45	And because of the 8x8 job, there's quite a few of them locked up? [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u46	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, as your candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u47	I regret that Mr Squeakle was not in the hall when I explained very carefully how this investigation was conducted. I also read the evidentiary decision adopted on 14 September at points (a), (b) and (c) and what was adopted in the context of the evidentiary decision. I also regret that he, as Vice-President, has not read all the materials that have been obtained in this process because he would then have created a different picture of this. I believe that if Viator&Vector 8x8 had been selected, there would have been no investigation and no Finnish investigators, despite the fact that the contract was more expensive for EUR 50 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we started building motorways, the tender that had to be international was then chosen by an Italian contractor, which was 16%, at about 6 billion at the time. And in this house we had a live circus, perhaps justifiably, at the time when Mr Elinčič's fellow Member represented the interests of the SCT, how this country and this policy could be so rude that he gave work to a foreign contractor, when a domestic contractor could also make a section of the highway, I think it was the Trojans-Vransians. And today I don't understand what you're doing here in this house, what you're doing with these unfortunate Koroscas and Systemic Tech when you've been spitting at her as much as the biggest skyscraper in this country. I'm afraid or I hope they're listening to us on the other side, watching and listening. And Systemic techniques like the company, leadership, the research sector, if you want employees, the wider surroundings of Koroška or this factory, are so embarrassed that I'm afraid it'll harm them in their business interests. Who's gonna be like the bastards you showed up here who want a state business looking for short routes to infiltrate the brokers at Patria? Yeah, thank God they did. Is System Technology really some kind of criminal society, like we're listening to here, that doesn't deserve one "business" in this country for one employee? I think the Koros now feel like some of the worst societies in this country, given what we're listening to here. From day to day, from performance to performance, especially colleagues and SDS, spitting on this Systemic technique is no longer to be heard. And it's a factory that's been growing for decades that's done something, then in a system that's just been, it's got a state business, and today it's a horror. We always go back to System Technology. I'm still talking about 6x6 and that everything is wrong, the stitches are repenting, and most people don't even know what the stitches are at 6x6 but you keep saying: the stitches are repenting. Which ones are they sewing? From a thick or thin frock, or from blood, or are these welded seams? And it's strange that there is no reaction from Koroška to these events that are in this house. And well, the purpose is well-known and the colleagues have already said a few times to cover up the bastards at Patria's. I must say that I also participated in this Squeaks Commission in the meantime and that, as the Rotis mediators then presented this matter to us, today Patria is made up, made up or transported through a hall so equipped that we in Rogaševci have a better equipped hall for making blenders and chariots. And that he tried to do it in an abandoned workshop on the Croatian border where even the windows are no longer in. I won't be around Patrie anymore because I'm trying to be corrected to the Rules of Procedure and to all of you who are here. But this stupidity about 6x6. They're all on the road. Or who's standing? Is there anyone in the trash? Everybody's working. Everybody's driving. Even on foreign missions. And it's already bad for me for these people who are "rolling" like I don't know where they've come from in this miserable Slovenia, and now they're having a political debate, and I can't do anything good for these people who are doing it. And that they tried to fight their right through, and they didn't report it to the Finns, that's the stupid idea that they were the ones who started this process. And at all costs, we want to go beyond the fact that the Finns have taken matters into their own hands properly, and everything has numbed us. And just in the end, let me just say around, some of these readings I don't know how many, 10 or 15 years ago, because today we're buying one of the old irons in Russia called the heater, for the price they set, either you take the heater or you get the fig. That's what Minister Erjavec said. Or nothing, Jože's lock. Will you have an old heater to install so much, all the thin and such an accident needs as much maintenance as one regional hospital, but no patient needs it. And we'll have a fuse that's out of all defense plans. And I'll finish with the falcon. In this Chamber during our discussions with you we were able to find that Mr Drnovšek and Mr Janša were respected for the Falcon in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. In view of the discussion of one of the speakers, I must now say that, of course, the storytellers and writers of conspiracy stories or collectors of information will find it difficult to convince me of this right. I have heard twice today when they repeat these things, but for the beginning of this discussion, because I am not an expert to go into detail as obviously some of you are here, but I would serve you with one statistic because this commission is going far back. In all these years we had seven defence ministers in Slovenia alone, five of them ministers from the current coalition and two of them from this ruling LDS. And statistics later, but when we talk about these things, this responsibility, which stretches over 13 years of your government in this ministry, of course, needs to be distributed slightly differently. But my first point, even in today's debate, as in previous discussions, is that we are also talking about this whole period before 2004, and in some ways we simply do not want to talk about such matters during this term. I agree that the back-up committee has been set up, but from day to day, from week to week, we are repeating this story and will obviously be there by September 21st. So we continue the story of the report and the assessments of the work of governments from 1990 to today, with the exception of the Demos' government, the Bajuk's government and the current Janša government. And as a red thread, the assessment is that all these governments have been incriminated, except, of course, these three exceptions. These are: harmless and here they have done things as necessary - public, transparent, economical and so on. But look at the fragment. There are always things and there are problems in the details. And this detail is that for five years the Ministry of Defence has been leading the current Prime Minister of the Government, that for four years and a year there have been three ministers from the second coalition party who have run this department and that the last four years have been leading this department again by the coalition ministers from DeSUS. So it is for 13 years when the defence ministry is in the hands of a party to the current coalition, and not least one of the defence ministers has had concrete experience with the presence of TV cameras when he discovered the arms trade, both at the Maribor airport and at the Brno airport. So for 13 years there have been many opportunities and opportunities, as well as concrete own experience, to adapt legislation and regulations to ensure that military procurement is transparent and economically economical. And today we wouldn't have this commission of inquiry and we wouldn't be discussing it today. Why this has not been done, why this has not been done, you can tell the proposers of today's findings and conclusions. Perhaps it is also because, for 17 years, one and the same persons participate in these acquisitions or as defence ministry employees in logistics, or as lobbyists, or as intermediaries in these transactions, or even as defence ministry advisers, and that is that, respected by the gentlemen of the coalition. So it is a strong arms lobby, which obviously cannot be avoided by Slovenia for 18 years. Under the influence of which policy options this arms lobby is a prize question for a million euros. Nor does this Commission of Inquiry find this with these scepticisms and findings. But I know something else. I don't think it's entirely logical that theft or the most mentioned Squeaks would be the key culprit. In all these years, in the abuse of the species of the prosecution, Rob and Squeakl are the key persons, in the tycoon stories - the key persons of Rob and Squeakl and in the two investigative commissions - Rob and Squeakl. I ask the rest of you, you've been sitting in these authorities for 20 years, I said, 13 years there, 18 years in this Parliament, what have you been doing? I'll say I had a face in this term. But what have you been doing all these years that this has happened? In short, my conclusion is that this is the shortest way, such a kind of disqualification to cover up and cover up the tracks, as I said before, of this extremely powerful arms lobby that has been breaking through Slovenia for 18 years and no one can help it, but it was created during the arms affair that never got its epilogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. For today the clearly valued opposition is leading the debate in every way possible, and I will answer some of their claims first. Earlier, a respected MP from the SD group tried to make fun of our pre-election password. But I can immediately tell him that our pre-election password is much more correct than theirs when they say Slovenia can lead better. At the time that this colleague was in the government minister, led by Rob, who was also in that group, economic growth was more than half lower than it was last year, for which the latest official data and indeed Slovenia can be managed better than they did when Pahor led Parliament and better Slovenia by the government of Janez Janša, and that is much better, more than twice better. Just so much to start with, by the way. Otherwise, it is fortunate for these colleagues from SD that that struggling fellow member from one of the opposition parties is not in there now, because otherwise he would probably draw out behind their SD that it is demagogic itself. In fact, Mr. Squeakl spoke about the problem, because now two of them are also closed in relation to 8x8 additionally. But he forgot to say that at the same time, there was an official message that the investigation was now going more in the direction of industrial espionage. We could hear that on our own ears in our media. Industrial espionage. This is interesting, however, colleagues and colleagues, for, as far as I know, the only such case is that someone allowed Mr. Prebil from a competing company to look into Patrie's confidential material. Who did this? Yes, Mr. Squeakle, I ask you nicely and after the kuloires. [[?]] For some time there has been talk of several hundred million lawsuits against Slovenia, which, I don't know, Mr Swickl may or his SD, which is so persistently defending, would pay out of his hair pocket. By the way, when he said that it couldn't be a topic today, he obviously overlooked that the first sentence in the material relating to the witness, Zdenka Pavček, said, "The production of vehicles 6x6 for Viator&Vector wasn't an economical, profitable business, but it would have been in conjunction with 8x8." In short, it was a pure calculation. Only this sentence should trigger the alarm bells. But not only that, it is now known to the public that even a special statement, a letter of intent for business with this company, has been signed. Since this is more than an obvious corrupt act, although, of course, Mr Kos, who immediately flew in with his black feather, gently covered it and declared that there is no dispute before any public invitation to tender, before all proceedings he has already signed a letter of intent for a particular deal and this with a man from the Government and the competent person of that company, which could be carried out at all by any special meeting in the National Assembly, in which case he is trying to turn matters upside down. This is the old "finta", the attack is the best defense, and now everyone is talking a lot and a lot and a lot about this story, which is supposed to be disputed during this period, the attempt of industrial espionage that could have been disastrously ended for Slovenia, let's hope that, according to the kulours of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, there will be a 800 million euro lawsuit against Slovenia. Mr. Squeakle, I hope you're listening to me now. But even if this does not happen, something so perverted can come to mind only to someone who has no value toward his own country. To abuse Parliament as a key democratic institution of its own country in order to enable some industrial espionage, from a competitive firm to top-secret documents. That's a really high-end move, and then someone yells and makes a circus in the National Assembly. So much for this job. I personally think that this Commission has done its job well and I will be happy to vote in favour of the proposed conclusions. However, I would point to something else when we are already in this valuable relationship, a key value that we are following in our conduct, either by individuals or by political parties. One part of the story is directly related to this, and this is the part of the report that relates to the time of Slovenian independence. Because if anyone said anything surprised him there, then, sorry, he didn't have the key data. Let me back that up with a few more things. In fact, the person who was at the head of this Presidency, who, by the way, twice postponed the meeting and so forth, as well as described in the material, said only a few months before she spoke to the assembled ironworks in Jesenica: "Some people in this Slovenia really dream of some independent Slovenia, but we will never allow them to do so, because we well know that our only homeland is Yugoslavia." End of quote. Colleagues and colleagues, if anyone doubts to go down to our reading room and borrow a few months from the independence of the old Gorenski voice which had, by the way, this published on the front page, no other central medium has been able to publish this courage, because this is something worth remembering and preserving for history, because it tells a lot about the event and then, of course, it is a miracle that such a person snitches when it comes to protecting Slovenia's vital interests, not just security. After all, materially, because you know, weapons cost a lot, which in some twisted way we hear here again and again, because we are obliged to realize some perhaps not sufficiently thoughtful promises given in previous mandates, and then it returns to our account. And then, of course, it is no wonder that the same person was first signed under a unilateral declaration on the disarmament of Slovenia, whose realization would be a pure disaster that would mean something like this, which then happened in Bosnia. Because that's where they went to this -- we're going to be peacekeepers, we're not going to be prepared for independence, but when the war came, then it was really a civil disaster. Fortunately, in Slovenia, some people have been determined enough to protect Slovenian interest in those first moments, and therefore there is something else to say - this matter has been going on until today. What, though, was that powerful story with so - called deletions, such as the desire to press the last slap of Slovenia’s independence? You will recall the context of what happened before the judgment of the Constitutional Court was issued. How Slovenia’s independence was about to be underestimated on all whims. And by the way, we listened to those same words here today. All that was wrong at the time is what the current opposition claims. What happened then was fine. It wasn't right, people of God. Some weapons were bought, which then demanded the lives of Slovenian soldiers because they were not at all appropriate! There was a purchase of weapons that led to terrible accidents. Has anyone seen the footage of someone who was injured by this unfortunate hoodie who is not at all suitable for Slovenian territory? Did anyone see that man's face? All this stuff, colleagues and colleagues, has been happening over the years, and I don't know why he's trying to get away from this topic in every way. It's a topic that's important. It also forms a part in some way of the moment in which we live. Above all, only if we know what was going on, then we also know what was going on in real light, so that we can't look back and forget everything that happened until yesterday, of course, I will never land myself. The past is the key to understanding the current situation, the current moment and the reports of this Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u54	Thank you. Replica, please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u55	That there will be no doubt. The one who first allowed Prof. Dr. Beatil a glimpse into the documentation and characteristics of both the Patri dish and the so-called rag was the Ministry of Defence, the Faculty of Engineering, a suitable department for testing. And the one who let this gentleman do this is the independent judicial branch of power that gave him the right [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] who gave him the relevant certificate of the judicial expert. [[...]] The one who opposed having Slovenian experts was the representative of Patrie, who said at the meeting: you do not have such experts. But all the other experts are in Europe. And all experts in Europe are linked to the European, so-called 30% owned by Patrie. So, gentlemen, all we have to ask is this: you don't mind Dr. Beatil, you have a significant difference, worth €90 million, between the terms of the fictitious offer and the signed contract signed by the Minister - as he said, but I got a pencil and signed it six times. That's the problem here. And that's why some of them are in prison in Finland today, Comrade Grims. I do not recall that any other business from 1994 - 2004 would have triggered you or anyone sitting in any prison. So this scheming is a little too much. And that. There was no insight into the top secret documents. There was an insight into the documents that were on the websites, and there was an insight into documents that Minister Erjavec did not want to reveal. These are completely altered terms in the contract according to the terms of the offer and are called the cause of corruption, clientelistic and any other act. In the end, only this, Comrade Grims, not only Mr Kos, has also told Dr Rajko Pirnat what the content of the letter of intent is and what its legal status is. So stop dealing with Systemic Technology, Systemic Technology because of what you've done, is losing jobs in Koroška today, and there are no jobs in Velenje.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr Minister addressed the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u57	I did not want to come forward, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, but I am obliged to explain, given that there have been quite a few untruths. True, there are no jobs in Velenj, as far as Patrie is concerned, but they are in Šostanje. That is how I must say it, and more than 100 workers now make up Patria there and will also be delivered first in September. With regard to the damage of €90 million or €50 million, I must say that there has been no damage to the state budget, and we have not yet paid a single euro on the basis of this contract, because the contract is so concluded when the vehicle is delivered, then it will also transfer. That way, I don't know why we're talking about some kind of injury. With regard to Dr. Pretzel, I have to say that he did not look into the Ministry of Defence's orders in all the documentation, and that's not true and you're constantly deceiving it. He only looked at a certain part that referred to the braking system because he was an expert in the transport profession. And for the first time, he had a full view when your commission allowed him to do so. As an expert in court, he also took the exam and should know that as a member of the Viator&Vector administration, he is in a conflict of interest and should be eliminated himself before looking at this documentation. Why didn't he do it? I don't know. That's what we should ask him. It's not true that there's no way to look at all the documentation. Members were able to look at this, the Defence Committee was sitting down, I don't know how many hours at the Ministry of Defence, and he could look at all the documents, and any MP could look at it. I don't know why even the wider Slovenian public could see what anti-mine protection is like, what kind of weapons it will be and what it won't be because it's not necessary, unless we want to release all this data, so that potential opponents know what kind of mines they have to set up to get the vehicle in the air and that we're going to have 8, 10 dead. Unless that's your purpose, and we'll have the information disclosed. We have reinforced anti-mine protection just to prevent such accidents. And thank God, we haven't had any casualties in 17 years in any mission, because we send soldiers well-trained, well-equipped, well-equipped, with good equipment and patriots have been procured for this reason to advocate maximum security for our members who serve their country, who carry out this as a profession and fulfil the obligations of the State to international organisations. And it would have been time for you to stop fooling around with these inaccurate data, really. I don't know why you're doing this. I don't know why. I would rather see you initiate appropriate procedures if there were indeed damage to social property or the state budget. Why not initiate these procedures if you so vehemently claim that 50, 100 million euros have been damaged. That's unfair of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u59	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Nice greeting also to everyone upstairs on the balcony. Today's report, which we're looking at with regard to armors 6x6, contains some of the things that are precisely and clearly written down. It's very exact. They are very precisely described in the summary of the findings, where it was found that most projects in the framework of the implementation of the basic development programmes at the Ministry of Defence which were the subject of the investigation were not carried out in a sufficiently transparent and prudent manner and within the meaning of the prudent master. That is to say, we have already warned of this in 1999, but unfortunately the then coalition, the current opposition, of course, has not been caught up in this. The Committee of the National Committee for Budgetary Control, at the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, found and, of course, acknowledged this, clearly, including then Minister Jelko Kacin, and even stressed that the report stated that 100 billion Slovenian Tolars had been spent more than was permitted under the TRPE law. Then, in its implementation, it is actually angry at those who have prepared the report, i.e. the Court of Auditors. Some even at the time in the coalition were critical to such a way, 100 billion, that is about 40 million euros today. For example, Ferri Horvat was dissatisfied with such a report and demanded from then Minister Jelk Kacin why the Ministry of Defence did not give an answer to it, why it actually spent 65% more money than it was legally allowed. Well, because of this and why I took it, of course, I'm not surprised what happened then in the next term from 2000 to 2004, when the report states that if the change of government did not occur in 2004, the intention to deliver 8x8 vehicles with Viator&Vector or System Technology would have been realized in a similar way as it did with the letter of intent for vehicle 6x6. That means what the difference actually is. All of this was done before this government, under the table, intransparency; in short, it worked for political friends, for political thinkers, of course at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of those who pay taxes. It is also stated in the report that the MORS made purchases with a direct order of 6x6 and even did not check either the price or the elements of the offer for competing tenderers. See, every congregation, everywhere in fact, you have to have at least three offers for the smallest possible issue, and here, when the LDS and the Social Democrats ruled, they ruled in this way - and today it has been said - thus, untransparent, without public contracts, without competitive offers and so on. Today someone has already mentioned that where are those problems, these 6x6 bikes are actually limping on the seams. According to the information I have, there are quite a few vehicles of these 6x6s that are standing on missions that are not applications. You know why not? Because the brake systems aren't working. Nine of these armored men are back on missions because their armor has been broken and so on. To talk about how the domestic company, Koroška and so on and so on should be doing, of course it is not true, because the report itself shows that General Dynamic of the United States of America is actually the majority owner of Austria's Steyer and Austria's Steyer of Systemic Technologies. And the director of the system technology himself said that, the majority owner, they sold themselves because they had a signed letter from the former Rob about the intention of working for 6x6 also 8x8 and without anything, without any serious offer or competitive offer of transparency, public, transparency and so on. Some people today said that the Systemic Technology in Koroška was then given this business under such legislation and that today we are discussing this in particular to cover up the atrocities around Patria. I ask you kindly, but what if this is presented and spoken about publicly, transparently and repeatedly? Of course, I can't get past it when someone mentioned today that it's all Rob and Squeakle's fault. Yes, they are in the vast majority of them! Because they sold around 1,000 Slovenian companies in their own time when they were in such or other functions, which were sold in a direct manner, which were sold in such a way that it was not even priced. In short, it was all sold under the table. Then, of course, here is the question, colleagues and colleagues. Isn't there a suspicion of a crime here? Don't these suspicions exist here? My debate here a few days ago, of course, was in this sense, and colleagues and colleagues might know, however, that even if you are a Member, you must answer, you will answer to the courts if such suspicions exist - or I hope that the authorities - as in the previous report have also called for them to do their work as they are expected to do. To the end of this famous Falcone plane. You know, you've been "solding fog" even on TV, in the media, in short, everywhere, so that Falcon will also serve other transports, including the transport of wounded and so on. In short, much and much of this has been untransparent, and since these two are actually the authors of a new political party programme, which is now in opposition, of course, one only wonders and fears that they would come back to power that would work so untransparently both in the fog and in the night as they have done in the last 12 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u60	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u61	I, of course, have to replicate to my colleague Pukšič, and I must tell the Minister earlier that Gorenje d.d. is the seat of the Minister. on Partizanski 12 Velenje and all jobs will be counted there. The factory is not in Šostanje, but in Metleča near Šostanje, but people are not mainly from Šostjanje, but from around Velenje and other places, so of course Velenje. Just like it's not a Ravna factory, but it's all over Koroška or people are hiring from all over Koroška. About Mr. Puksich. Yeah, there's a whole bunch of complaints against me. But you know, on this topic that my colleagues are quoting today, that it is so problematic, we have a positive opinion from the Court of Auditors, but more in my debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. President and all present! This report by the Commission of Inquiry is very clear. At the time of these purchases, many of us felt that it was uneconomic, that there were completely different interests in the background from the modernisation of the arms of the Slovenian Army. And now it turns out! And because of that, even so many of those who then, of course, cooperated with their interests to lose their business for 8x8, because everything was already arranged, they've already calculated how much money will flow into their pockets and so on. On the basis of how inconvenient, how untransparent, how it worked here, it is possible to say that they were not concerned about the modernisation of the Slovenian Army, but were updating their private wallets. So they got fat so they could say they got some armored wallets. But not the armor of the modern ones who are spoken of. No wonder the armored men repent that they are out of function and that they will be old iron. I don't know if that's when they said they were working to update the old iron. No, that's when they said different. And look at these hoodies, the only thing that's wrong is that they haven't been tested. Unfortunately, they were tested with the death of a Slovenian soldier and with injuries to others. In this way, they have been tested to be old iron ever since. And those who bought them obviously knew that they were buying old iron, inappropriate weapons. Look, here's the interesting thing, at that time, was the ambassador to Israel, Mrs Bavdaževa. Good ambassador. I've heard rumors, and I've witnessed how madly she resented Mr. Kacin because she didn't do it the way he wanted it to. And then he was the only one against the vote and was not confirmed as ambassador to Japan, because Mr Kacin was a terrible thing against her and he was also against her when she ran for Ambassador to Sweden. Rumor has it that he was born, his opposition to her because she did not assist enough in those affairs in Israel when he was the Secretary of Defense and she was the Ambassador. And these are the details that clearly show how it was done. The contract for pilutus, Iskra commerciale, was mediated by the former Secretary of State in Shinego's Government for Agriculture. It was an aircraft expert. Mr. Marjan - here it says and we all know, connecting Iskra commercials and some others. There was no competitive clause either. And modernity - I have to be brief because I'm running out of time. I would like to say, however, that it is absolutely clear that in the current studies, Mr Prebil should be eliminated as a judicial expert. Mr Cwickl certainly knew this and deliberately violated the legislation, because the CAP is used meaningfully on the Commissions of Inquiry - and why. I also believe that it was intended to prevent this from being made in Gorenje I do not understand Mr Swickl. As a Velenjian, you wanted to destroy Gorenje in this area. How's that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u64	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u65	Mr Jerovšek, you know, it's just like, you probably wouldn't want to be in Impola instead of aluminum all of a sudden starting to deal with, I don't know, car production. I'm not in favour of having a power plant become an armored factory, not that a strategic factory is located not far from housing and that there are two strategic locations. 40% of Slovenian energy, which is hidden, relatively hidden, for at least two hills, and in the middle of a factory field. And second, of course, colleague Jerovšek, I believe that it is difficult to follow all the procedures that have been carried out here. But if you go a little deeper into the documents that are in the basement of the National Assembly and you have seen some of these documents, especially the report by Mr. Klavora and Mr. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] which, of course, applied the methods that you used once as a head of the commission of inquiry, would then see that there are many reasons why you did not allow the work of both commissions of inquiry to be properly completed. [[...]] So don't judge in advance until you look at the documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I would be very happy if, in this case, an investigative committee set up by the National Assembly and whose reports are dealt with, at least from written material and from a logical examination, how evidence has been carried out, who has concluded about them, what the opinions of the individuals who have been heard have been from the evidence of the written materials which have been submitted, the likelihood that things have been properly identified. I have to admit, I've read what you've given me, not the other one, because I don't have another, and you haven't given me another. In this particular case, I also have a basis for believing that your findings from the evidence made are extremely little or nothing, Mr. Cernač. You've had a little time, yes, a good year, but you've had five meetings at this time. After my review at the two sessions, you took the evidence conclusions, and then you find that you have looked at disputed objects or disputed vehicles, pillatus and so on. Now, some of this is made up of a commission made up of politicians, if it goes and goes on the spot to see one 6x6 wheelbarrow and 155 millimetres hood, and an ACCS fire management system, tank T55S. Don't mind me, though, I'd say in the old Yugoslavia, I served as an army "pedes", but at least if you show me a rifle, I can't judge what's good and what's bad. I doubt you're specialists, that you knew from these examinations to find out things. Then you heard four Witnesses, and I don't know if you said the point in the report that you asked the Witnesses about, just from what was written, you asked most of the Witnesses about the purchase of Falcon. In part, and only to Mr Pavček, you also asked about wheels 6x6 when you were making responsibilities assessments, saying that individuals were responsible for things where they were neither questioned nor could say anything in their defense. I think that kind of behavior is extremely incorrect. Mr. Chernač, I simply cannot give credibility to such a commission. Although time was short, we should try harder to believe anything. In short, your findings, the evidence made and the final assessments of the potential guilt are incomparable to me from the material that exists here. You simply failed to prove the guilt you potentially attribute to individuals. I hope that what is written in the report is true, that there is also a suspicion of criminal services, and I hope that the complaint where you described the conduct that represented the suspicion of criminal services has been written out and sent out otherwise by the Slovenian public because the authorities will not independently search the findings of the commission of inquiry, but expect you to do so. And if there is any suspicion, you would have been obliged to say before you even presented it to the National Assembly, and I am very interested to know today whether or not you will say that you did it and what such suspicion of a criminal offence is. See, on the basis of charges that are not proven, you have found guilt and responsibility, and at the same time you have been wondering at the previous point because someone had certain conversations, perhaps before interpreting them differently than you could interpret them. And he said half a word more than was necessary and with actual evidence. The whole stories of morality, of lies, of what they were on your side she says; now that we have even a report from the commission, which does not really spend extra money, only I think she has made very poor evidence that she could find out what she wrote in the report, but there is no more talk about the need, not about the lie, nor about the objective facts that need to be determined. Mr Tanko, and someone else, has spent a good part of his debate to prove that he is in the process of identifying and working the 6x6 Armoured Commission as a completely different method, which is fair, correct, where all the members of the Commission participated, except for two - among other things, these two also have their deputies, who also did not participate - and to talk about a unanimous decision when they are not present from 7 to 2 – it is probably more so, away from the truth and cannot be emphasised. But you wanted to prove that the other commission was dealing with experts that she shouldn't have spent a lot of money working unfairly, but you didn't tell her that you, through your way of doing things, made it impossible. I'm not going to let go of whether there was any mistake on the part of the committee, it must have been, just like there was a mistake, Mr. Chernač, with yours. I see a lot of them from the report. I see them in great measure between what you find and what you have actually done in the process of carrying out the evidence in all your work. But the 8x8 Armoured Commission has to stop working because you've decided not to report to the National Assembly. First, you found that the work was arbitrary, and then you partially got out of it, and later when you found that it would only be unsympathetic to stop the commission from operating in such a way that it would fall under number 5, which would make it impossible for you to work, you actually started with methods that were not correct, but that were already tested in the National Assembly, that you wanted to appoint a member or chairman of the Commission as a witness, so that you could not continue to lead the work of the Commission. And you carried out this procedure in such a way that you didn't care if the witness was proposed or determined because it was proposed and it wasn't determined. Is it required that a witness be questioned as to what the contents of the commission of inquiry are, or something purely third? That you had overlooked that this witness had been proposed to you, but you didn't accept her. That the members of the commission of inquiry have proposed to you, Mr Cernač, a hearing of all defence ministers, and you have not accepted this. In short, the difference in working methods was, indeed, it was. You have decided what must ultimately be the result, and you have minimally satisfied the need to get this result, but the other commission has been trying to find out certain things, and you have not given it to find out these things, and you have enabled it to continue working. At the end of this term, I am sorry to say goodbye to the work of the investigative commissions in a way that they will not be honored. And I hope that the next National Assembly may find that correct assessments are needed in this area, because if the work of the Commissions of Inquiry is to come, then it is entirely inconsequential, in which the majority, one or the other, have become as political as it has been so far, then it makes absolutely no sense. And the last two things. When I listen, I feel sorry for Mr Grimes, who only explains recent history, I miss working in the National Assembly, but also, I would say, the attitude towards honesty and correctness. I hope and believe that historians will be more correct and that Mr Grimes, when he simplifies things and consists of pieces of such half-truths, which are not exactly the same as the actual situation, will not happen for long. As for our client's alternative government programme. I believe that we are all before the elections, every reader praises his little bit, and I believe that, gentlemen of the SDS, it is very bad because we have our own agenda, because now we can no longer say that it is not, that it is very bad for you, that we are making specific electoral promises in all areas in this programme, and that it bothers you that you have to compare your programme and your work with ours, where we promise more than you have made in the last four years, so you want to rule for at least four years or maybe eight more, because you have not been able to achieve your ambitions, just this is not the subject of this investigative commission and so please stop talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u69	Your Honors are here! I am one of those who does not believe that the next Commission of Inquiry, that is to say the Commission, which will be investigating this matter in the next four years, will come to any conclusions. Why not? Because the commission for so-called arms deals in our country is 34%. 34% of the people who participate through political or even commission transactions within our country are rich. Therefore, it is entirely irrelevant to identify the culprit as a result of this title. All those who had their hands in politics at the time, most likely from the Minister of Defence once, Mr Janez Janša, to today's Defence Minister, were directly or indirectly involved in this story. 34% is the amount or 34% of the amount allocated to individual so-called international cooperation negotiators. From this address out our country has also replaced the AK47 weapons, that is, those weapons which were said to be unattainable by the Slovenian Army because they are not in the so-called NATO weapons classification. On the other hand, the weapons that Slovenia, as a member of NATO, had issued from its regular weapons were accepted by another member of NATO. But, of course, in the framework of our country, the Republic of Slovenia is no one's concern; nor is it, if I were to be questioned, I will deliberately start my debate in this form, not least for a long time in politics. So if I had a question asked whether the so-called noble Member had received 50,000 euros to speak and blur area 8x8, my answer would be possible. My answer would be to even believe it. Ladies and gentlemen, in Slovenian politics, we are so damn shallow that you defend always, or better said, one and the same people who deal with so-called arms deals. What is the community or the common feature of Slovenian business, whether in terms of the transition to weapons or at least this business in connection with 8x8? That they are so-called or, rather, they are commissions. And today, as much as we read the material that was prepared for today's session of the commission, which we are talking about, we can find out about another common feature, that none of these weapons were necessarily needed for the Republic of Slovenia, that none of these weapons could be fully used in the Republic of Slovenia, but that the entire weapon in the past and the weapons present today, 8x8, was intended solely for the so-called lobbying of foreign forces, with domestic support reaching the very top of the executive branch of power. And as far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned, why some are so blindly seeking it in the next term, or why a party who should normally care for pensioners is at least declared at the introductory title level has been asked to do so, and how many times has been requested, and because of the fact that most of the business within this ministry has taken place outside the public procurement system. So once again, I can say with all certainty, money has been washed and money is washed or better said, it is washed at 34%, some among us, one of the nineties has received, I believe, once again, fifty thousand euros in the second half of May to make it impossible for the final debate to come in connection with 8x8. But regardless of the events and developments that are taking place in this country today and here in Slovenia, I believe that, if not today, at least at the end of the second year or in the future, when the research from Scandinavian countries is extended to our area, you will, if not everyone else, swing with your hands and say that it is a lane story to deal with that so-called commission of inquiry in the next term of the National Assembly. In particular, the characteristic of Slovenian policy, both legislative and that of the so-called executive branch, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is that if it is available to deal with events today and here or to deal with events from five, ten years ago, it is much better to grab events from five, ten years ago because of the fact that, of course, there is always a solution or rather a solution that remains only at some declared media level, this solution never works. And we can say this with certainty in the case of the arms affairs that are taking place today and here, and we all know what is happening with the current commission that finds out. But much nicer or much more meaningful in pursuing so-called potential election votes is to talk about trade in the past. I believe that I am not the only Member of the National Assembly or I know - I apologize, no, I believe - who knows where the money was hidden in Rogoza for the purchase of weapons. Rogoza, the place, I will not say smaller, I am very much at heart near Maribor, in which house the money was hidden under the pretext of leaving the suitcase for a visit to Austria. But of course these things are of no particular interest to anyone within this Slovenian country. It is more interesting today and here to talk about the so-called assumptions that have taken place in connection with the arms, such as that of today’s commission of inquiry or, in other words, how and how it attempts to confuse things. I believe that at this point a lot of people are saying that I am not talking about the report of the investigative commission that was doing its work. Once again, I have learned so much, not least in this Slovenian Parliament, but the Commissions are established when they do not want to come to an understanding. The Commissions are rewarded or their work is being made more difficult, as we have seen in the case of their colleague -- especially when no one in the National Assembly, or, rather, those who lead, nor do we Members want to talk about anything. But the fact is that it is naive, not only within the 90 members of the National Assembly, but all of us, two million Slovenes and Slovenians, who will forget who the Defence Minister was when Slovenia traded weapons extremely frequently, and it did not trade through the then gypsy accounts, today's transaction accounts, but trade through so-called aluminum suitcases. And where is this man today? If you weren't, I'll say in the past government, so interested that you'll then step on the same person's fingers, then of course you won't today. But let me illustrate again, and then I'll finish my work. You know, this is about the same story as the care story, the apparent care of ownership of Slovenian property. While we have about 200 sales of Slovenian property, the Court and Kadu, the entire National Assembly - on Thursday we are supposed to have the continuation of the so-called anti-Tacunkun meeting - the entire National Assembly will marvel at all living and all dead, how it is possible that we did not know about the three parking lots, while all the media knew about these three parking lots, all the Members who were at least a little interested in this topic, but no doubt knew all tens of thousands and several Slovenian "brokers" or rather stockbrokers, or those who were dealing with classical securities. But roughly the same story is the story of arms trafficking within our country and two investigative commissions. The investigative committee for the past, on which the final report is to be distributed, I will not say debate, today and on the investigative committee within the dimension that is taking place today and here. And anyone who prepares a daily newspaper, not the last time since April of this year, once a week in their hands, will realize that such a game, which the mercenaries are, and last but not least today, I have told you what the value of these mercenaries has been in our country. But fear goes on. In particular, it takes the form of a fear that, with this kind of work that we are doing today and here, not least in the context of the debate of the National Assembly, not least the work of Minister Erjavac, the President of DeSUS, who has spent three and a half years of his stay, his life or would be directed to the fact that the frequency of the Slovenian arms trade has reached that global range, of course he has always forgotten about that segment of citizens he has promised within our country. But the more we talk about these things, ladies and gentlemen, the more we deny the reality, or better said, the more we will move the reality away from knowing all of us. Today's proposed conclusions are, of course, the classic conclusions of the so-called zero committees or commissions working in the framework of a few years' work in order to mix content in the context of knowledge or knowledge. And once again, I point out what I think is more important. If any of us, or at least those of us who have the real power to decide on the content of the debate - and in the context of the Lip Group of Ambassadors, of course, we do not have this power because we are three Members - then today and here we would talk about the weapons deals under heading 8x8. The whole of Europe is talking about what customerism, corruption, money laundering is taking place in the Republic of Slovenia, and only within our country is the Minister of State, Mr Karl Erjavec, speaking - I have no idea what this is about; the Prime Minister is talking - I have no idea what this is about, and the Commission of Inquiry is calling its President as a witness that the Commission is not continuing in the context of the proposed way and the content of the work. However, I will conclude with the sentence that the value of Slovenian politics, like today and here, has not yet been seen. That is why also from this title, I think it is really good for the Slovenian state to have elections coming as soon as possible. Because as much knowledge as we are, and from all sides of the past government, as well as from the current government, in the field of arms trafficking, that is, in the area of trade, which is called commissioning, and I will once again point out 34%, 34% is the so-called percentage of the reward to the one who provides in these transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u71	I don't know what to say to this report by Mr. Black. I'll focus mainly on the conclusions. With regard to conclusions, it must be made clear that these practices, some plagiarists, remain unpunished to speak the facts, are also repeated here. First of all, look, it says here that after irregularities, non-economics, a 6x6 armored vehicle can come out significantly in connection with the sale of the company Systemic technique. The Court of Auditors' report on 29 November 2005, said at the time of this government, speaks in an opinion on the correctness of the procedure - a positive opinion. Positive opinion, not negative opinion! Performance opinion - carried out successfully. Efficacy Opinion on the sale of business shares - effective. So, please, where did you get this independent conclusion that this was problematic? War power. Although I don't know if it was the wisest time to restore the T55 tanks, it was true that they were the only firepower. And I'd be happy to have the same cannons on the patriots. Look what the experts are writing. If a battalion of Slovenian patriots is met and a battalion of Croatian patriots in an unloving event, ours will have a serious problem. This is a problem for Minister Erjavac, Slovenian Army, Commander-in-Chief, if this is what we are talking about. And, of course, the so-called third conclusion. That now the National Assembly finds that everything is fine because public procurement legislation has changed. Gentlemen, public procurement legislation was the same at the time of NATO entry and at the time of NATO entry. There's no legal protection for the defence business. Mr. Blackach, since you had a 40% supplement all year, what do you suggest? What you are proposing, except that you are insinuating that, as Mr Puksic says earlier for Mr Rope, it is necessary, by the way, for me, probably for Mr Pavček and someone else. What do you suggest? Did you hope to make any proposal to amend legislation in the field covered by Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation? You didn't! I expected here that you would suggest that there is legal protection, of course. To propose that Minister Erjavec, together with that other minister, Matthew, ensure that this directive on defence orders and a directive providing legal protection are adopted already during the Presidency of Slovenia. Nothing, gentlemen, you haven't done anything about this in six months. And if we can now at least propose in the political programme which parties to propose legal protection for these 300, 400 million annual orders - look at the client programmes who is proposing this. In your proposal, you're a lawyer, you've had a 40% supplement for one year, which amendment do you propose? None. The report that we have proposed today, however, is proposed on the basis of an expert opinion, in accordance with Article 14 of the Constitution, in accordance with the directive, as in the Netherlands, Spain, following the last affair in Austria, Sweden and elsewhere, that there is legal protection and we have a national commission that can provide this legal protection and therefore propose an amendment to the law on the revision of the procurement procedure. So are plagiarists, false speakers here as usual. And so if you sign a report, at least check the facts. In view of my constitutional role, the Court of Auditors is a credible institution, but it is true that you have a problem with it when, of course, it gives you an opinion that is not appropriate. And I have to tell you that it was necessary for them to check it out; and rightly, they checked it out. But they found that the opinion was positive. So we have a typical story of the abuse of the parliamentary commission of inquiry by the coalition in order to stop the work and cover the work of another commission. But to say that you worked very intensively if you did not have any meetings between February and June, you heard four witnesses within two weeks, gentlemen - holy forgiveness. Check the facts, tell the truth, don't lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u73	One more time. The report is not a report from the Commission, a report which has been written elsewhere has been delivered to the members of the Commission who were there from a coalition plus a satellite vote and delivered to the National Assembly. I was one of the few who read all the documents and looked at them in those spaces that require the treatment of the materials in a way that protects possible unauthorized outflows to the public. But, as it is said, from what I read there, from what we heard, when we only heard four of your witnesses that you wanted to hear, and from what was able to see in the field, it certainly cannot be concluded that everything sucked. And today, the representative of the government, even the minister, is talking about how we send Slovenian soldiers to the field with the best equipped, safe vehicles and we didn't have any accidents or casualties. But you know what kind of vehicles these are? 6x6. In Kosovo, we talked to the Italian commander, in which we are down there - what he said - and yet you have well-equipped, we use these vehicles and so on. And here you're saying it's just a robbery. An essential wiser shopping is by buying 50 vehicles when you need them, by finding that you need some more of them, by ordering additional vehicles and so on and by paying for them. Not to order them, 150 you sign them, 135 you order them, 25 unequipped buses in the end -- no guns, no equipment, no everything. I don't want to go into every statement separately, because it doesn't make any sense because they're simply wrong, lying, insinuating back. To speak today when the earth is already spinning, whether it is spinning or not, could go far back to your closer or more popular topic. Today, however, it is clear that what happened in 1990 is that in those circumstances, this Slovenia, that Presidency with the President of the principle and so on, has acted almost treasonously, and here it says, servility, irresponsibility and so on, is an uncultured act. After all, look from today's point of view where we are the visas of others who were at the same time as we were. But I don't advocate behavior, I don't know what it was, I didn't have the opportunity to talk to those actors because you didn't want to call them before the investigative committee; but what I read, and it's impossible to say that. And falcon. I was skeptical when it came to discussing which plane was supposed to be better and so on, now I know you have to buy the best. And it is right that we bought it, and it was an agreement, Mr Drnovšek made a special effort to align this purchase with all coalition leaders, I know that. Later, we cried out about how everything was wrong and how we needed to rent it and so on, and it was also a conversation and an agreement; but it is not essential for those who were there to explain it. But I was against hiring him because of avoiding those expensive payments that are now taking place from the state budget of the coup d'état of ministers, prime ministers and so on and so forth, and we would probably have already paid these costs. At the very least, what you are getting in the budget, this has been undeniably said on the Defence Committee that rent payments repay the lease that was rented and that the state will not suffer damage here. But you're gonna put it on your head and everything. And it's very strange if you want to split the fees for someone working for the Slovenian Army and then give the bits back to Slovenian companies so that they can work, supply or anti-procurement certain things for these products.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u75	Thank you. From today's SDS debates, it was particularly clear that two targets had already been identified in advance, and these are colleagues of Rob and colleagues of Svikl, they remained the indirect protagonist of this debate. Why? Because he had slightly disturbed the Prime Minister of the Government when he spoke about talking to a colleague from Croatia, and Mr Cwickl, who had apparently drawn too close to the truth. That's why they've become targets and you've mounted this process through this investigative commission to get what they're good at. My colleague Montenegro called on us to object to the proposed conclusions if we have any arguments. All 12 were written, no offense, fellow President, over the thumb, there were not enough arguments, enough elements to record these claims irrefutablely. In particular, once again, we have missed witnessing to the protagonists of all these transactions, all the institutions in public office during the procurement period. But I'm only going to hear three allegations and try to prove how weak they are. The real flower is the fourth to talk about the alleged LDS connections in some business. Comrade Cernač had at his disposal the testimony of Mr Anton Rope, who was interviewed as former Prime Minister, solely in connection with the surrender of the Falcon, but did not deepen any knowledge of whether there were any other links between the government and the company Viator&Vektor. He obtained this thesis from Mr Pavček's hearing, which he did not even give him an opportunity to object after he qualified these statements as unworthy. You can't say that your colleague Rob was responsible for some connections if you didn't ask him any questions when you were sitting alone as a witness. The second statement is the eighth, the perfect shot passed by Mr. Chernač. The value of the investigative equipment used and its functional utility for the defence readiness of the State are expected to be small, even zero and inversely proportional to the cost of purchase. Only its users, the users of this equipment, the profession can state the useful value, if I am allowed, of a completely different philosophy of this type of equipment in relation to the actual sources of the threat of the country. My friend Blacky can't judge whether it's useful or not. And let's face it, we looked at the thin ones, we looked at the Israeli hoodies, we looked at the fire management system. And the users of this equipment have assured us that everything is fully operational. Not here to deceive and tell fairy tales, including my friend Friend. Last time we were told, canned tanks are the most important strategic force, firepower when needed to defend the country. The hoods are working, the waves are working. I'm not thrilled either that we have so many weapons, but that's all in place, otherwise the ministry would have eliminated it, written off and dumped it. These are very weak your thesis, Comrade Chernach. You can take whatever you want. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You can accept, as I once said, that the planet is a pancake. But that's not necessarily the truth. As convincing as you can be, the voters will say.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. A few hours ago, the press conference was held by Mr Cvikl, Mohet and Mrs Zalokar Orazem, where they presented the report of the 8x8 Commission of Inquiry, which, as far as I know, did not submit a partial report, but only a final report. They are talking about the findings of the Commission, which has not yet presented anything to these Members of the National Assembly. But at the press conference, you have already informed the Slovenian public of the content of whether it is suspected or not and so on. As far as 8x8 is concerned, there is really no way to eliminate the suspicion that the deal was not politically negotiated. Work 8x8 was an integral part of the sales of Systemic Engineering to Viator&Vector. Before this cheap sale, we can say almost a donation, a gift contract has been realized, the government has concluded or decided to purchase 36 armoured personnel from the same company. In addition, she decided that this weapons business of the century, as it was called, would also give this System Technology. And that's what Robb's government did, and there was a whole bunch of ministers. The decision I am referring to is contained in the report of the Commission of Inquiry and relates to the decision of the Government. The government itself has passed what the Ministry of Defence has drawn up to determine that the arms business of the century will be carried out by the System Technology. Now let me know whether this deal between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, between the LDS and the minister who was probably from the LDS at the time, and the buyer, the LDS member, was politically agreed with Mr Pavčko or was awarded on the basis of a public tender. In the record of the commission of inquiry, there is a letter of intent for 8x8 system techniques. And that's all I'm talking about. And now let someone tell me whether this business has been politically negotiated and the intention of implementing this project 8x8 with Systemic Technology is political, whether it has been carried out professionally on the basis of a public contract and a public tender. It is clear that this business, or purpose, was political. It was similar in all other business activities covered by the report of this Commission of Inquiry. Let's say it's thin, let's say it's hoodies, we know how media-related these stories were with the acquisition of hoodies, who traveled all the way to Israel and back and when these stories were happening, the pillatus and the Falcons. Which of these deals was, say, a public procurement day? We've had the Public Procurement Act since 1997, if I'm not mistaken. Since then, all users of public funds have been obliged to issue public procurement transactions. None of the public affairs could be dealt with on the basis of an agreement on the four-eyes as agreed by these transactions. As I said before in my position, it was in fact the biggest weapons stories, arms deals concluded by the Republic of Slovenia with a separate supplier of military equipment. With a separate supplier of military equipment. As far as I'm concerned, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the quality of the report, and the President is certainly responsible for the quality of the report, and he invited all those whom he considered to be able to contribute to the clarification of the views and thus, to the hearing. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr Anderlich, a procedural proposal and I ask that it be a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u79	But it can also be a question and the question will be!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u80	Please, you no longer have time to discuss, just a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u81	I have 3 minutes for a procedural proposal or procedural question to answer, on which basis it is possible to discuss the sale of certain shares, because that was another investigative commission. This Commission of Inquiry, however, has the title "to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions who participated in the preparation and implementation of the purchase of light armoured wheels 6x6, government aircraft, haubic 155 millimetres, fire management system, aircraft pillatus and recovery of T55-S tanks financed under the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994 to 2007, because of the suspicion that the transactions were politically negotiated, operated in a non-transparent manner and because of suspicion of the presence of clientism and corruption and the suspicion of the responsibility of the holders of public functions in disarming the former Territorial Defence". The sale of shares in individual companies or shares of Kad and Soda was established by the Special Investigation Commission, but has not done so. I ask you: What is the basis for such a debate, which, among other things, deplores that the LDS has made certain sales transactions and so on? The LDS did not enter into any business, and I know now that no political party on behalf of the State is engaged in any sale of any shares. It is true, however, that one of the political parties was last July or 2006 before the signature of the Patri dish contract, [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u82	Mr. Andrelich, please, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u83	Discussed in the World of Parties [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u84	It's a controversy, it's not a procedural proposal. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u85	What a good deal she's made. [[...]] I have a question! I'd like to know if that's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u86	You have to ask the question. Second time I warn you, stop this circus!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u87	I'm asking if it belongs to this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u88	I won't answer such questions. I don't owe you. Another word from the proposer, Mr. Chernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think Mr. Anderlich Tone is right. It happened by accident that it happened through Viator&Vektor, whose majority owner and director is a member of LDS Mr Pavček. By chance, 21 transport companies were picked up and people who had previously been employed at the MORS were placed in leading positions. That must have happened by accident. Now for these findings. There was a lot of talk today about how rational we were in our work, but we were not effective because we looked at things too flatly. I have even been waiting for the debate to see one of my colleagues and colleagues throw what we have found on the table to make a point against those who are in the report who will talk about not having made the right conclusions. Despite the big words, even on the part of Mr Ptræ, I am sorry to say that I have not waited. I've heard a lot of words about statistics. You know, statistics are a very interesting thing. We know what kind of winged thing it is. But we also know that in another commission, statistics, if we look statistically, are very beneficial. It's just that there's not yet a janitor or a powerhouse that's been interrogated. But what will be the outcome, and what are the conclusions? We can't even confirm the suspicion. Is this why we set up investigative commissions to come to an end after hearing many ministers and everyone else to say we can't even confirm the suspicion? I don't think that's why investigative committees are being set up. In accordance with the evidentiary decision adopted on 14 September last year, we have put the investigation into question exactly as stated in this evidentiary decision: a review of extensive documentation, a view of the arms systems and a hearing of four witnesses. It was given an additional proposal, which was not voted out and subsequently repeated only on 22 May, with the addition to Mr Cvikl on 6 June even, which was intended only to avoid the completion of the investigation. That's what I think is clear to the blind. And that these proposals had no serious intention of adding something further to this investigation and to its conclusion. Mr Anderlič said a little earlier, I quote, "it is one of the few who has reviewed all the documentation in the special rooms." I have to say, it has to read very quickly, because this documentation is on dozens of files and maps, more than 10 centimeters thick. During the investigation, Mr Anderlič moved in these premises exactly 35 minutes on 15 January this year. But it's true that he was the only LDS guy and the only SD guy who ever looked at the file. Others haven't even looked at it in all this time. So, look, ladies and gentlemen, it is very improbable to talk about things that have been very clear, very transparent and carried out in accordance with the evidentiary decision. This Commission has taken the view that an examination of the material is considered to be in accordance with a letter which I forwarded to all members and alternates immediately after the adoption of this Decision. And it said that everyone had a chance to look at all this documentation. Why was the essential part and the weight of this commission of inquiry at the examination of the documentation and not at the hearing of individuals? Because it's about things that have already happened. Procedures in all these matters that we have investigated, ladies and gentlemen, are closed. And anyone else would be further questioned, except those four who explained certain derogations, and from the records of those who were interviewed, if you read them, it turns out that it was right that we heard them. Everything. Let's go in one order. Mag. The robbery and his secretary-general, Bandelj, did not agree on what was more wrong: buying or broadcasting this aircraft. You weren't the only ones who were more wrong. Mr Zdenko Pavček was ahead of this committee, and also before the committee led by Mr. Cvikl, on the record under oath said that business 6x6 was just an introduction to business 8x8. That's what it says, and it can't be erased. I don't know why some people get so upset about this. And that's how it is. I firmly believe that if there had not been a change of government in 2004, we would not be talking about the Patriage now, but we would have a 50 million more expensive and worse product on the table and no Finnish investigators would have walked through Slovenia. Which is nothing wrong. I think it is right for them to do their job and unfortunately, it is not possible for a respected Mr. Squeakle to help. I don't think what he has in these rooms can help them much in this work, and they're gonna have to get to the things they're investigating themselves. It's in the interest of all of us to get our hands on it as soon as possible. With regard to the scope of the report, we were based on a restriction on the confidentiality of materials. We were thinking about whether to make a confidential session, as we had one earlier, where we were saying something when the meeting was confidential, and then some of the opposition in particular were saying something completely third in front of journalists. And that we have avoided all the manipulations that we would have received, I am sure, even in the case of our commission, we have limited the report to the minimum possible extent that we have protected those documents which I think is the question whether it is right that they have a confidentiality mark after so much time and have prepared a report in such a part that it can be seen for a particular segment of it what and how has happened in particular areas. In doing so, I must say that the report makes it very clear that it was written in haubics, to which my colleague Jerovšek warned me that they had not been fully tested. Of course they were shot with them in Slovenia on a range, at Poček. We know that she was a mortal victim, a man has been blinded, but they have never been fully tested because they cannot be because Slovenia cannot overcome such a range so that they can fully test such hooks. As regards the operational capability of equipment for the defence capabilities of our country, and therefore, Mr Potč, we have looked at this equipment, not because we are going on a trip. In these reviews, both in Pivka and in Churches, a number of explanations were provided and, subsequently, by the Ministry of Defence, a number of new documentation was submitted, according to the findings we have learned there, we can see 30 tanks. All 30 of them are beautiful, they look nice, and I'm sure they also work well, but they're stored there, and I'm sure they'll be stored to the end. Something similar applies to the operational capability of Israeli haubics and ACCS fire-use systems, where even a system has been purchased for elements we do not even have in use. But these are not the main findings now. The key point we wanted to make, given that things are up to date, in terms of vehicles 6x6 and government falcon. We didn't write about 6x6 that it wasn't usable equipment. We wrote that the remaining equipment was suitable for 6x6 and the plane pillatus, but the purchase did not respect the principle of economy and rationality and so on. We separated things by the elements of purchase, and at Falcone we wrote that there is no useful value for the country. Of course it is not, because this aircraft will never again be seen by this country, because the contract is written so that even after the five-year period, if the one who now has an aircraft in use decides unilaterally to want it, he will want it undisputedly, because the rent in relation to the world markets is approximately, the semi-automatic contract will be extended for another five years. And why did we question Mr Podbregar in this regard? Because he said it well, and this also comes from a report he had prepared at the time and to the minister of the time and to the Government, that it would be most appropriate for us to buy a plane that was really more expensive than a falcon at that time, but it would represent part of the fleet of the Slovenian carrier because it was an Airbus and it would be possible to use it multi-purposely. And it also says Dr Podbregar, if the state decided to sell it after a while, it would be very easy to sell it, because the market is such as to simplify it, hungry. At that time, when a decision was to be taken in a responsible manner, it was argued for an aircraft that would serve everyone and would now be available to this country, a strange decision was taken, which was not agreed anywhere between Janez Janša and Drnovsk. Nowhere in any of the documents we've proposed is that possible. With regard to the Court of Auditors' report and the Systemic Technology sales procedure, it is true. However, the Court of Auditors found the sale procedure, the Court of Auditors did not, in any way, consider that, at the time this case took place, a contract of 36 waves of over 8 billion Slovenian tolars was concluded on short notice. That is the essence of the matter, ladies and gentlemen. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And the point is, through this deal, Steier's 8x8 license was won. [[...]] But it wasn't obtained by the state, it was by a private company. Certainly directed by the then government of Anton Rope. I can't help it if Anton Rop was then Prime Minister of the Government. He was there, he was responsible. We couldn't write Yuri Klepec because he wasn't the Prime Minister of the government, he was a mag. Anton Rop. And all those who are mentioned in connection with these transactions carry their share of responsibility. That's how it is. I would like to conclude by thanking all those who have participated and assisted in the work of this committee, and I would like to see the conclusions that we will consider tomorrow adopted and a good journey forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u90	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The amendments to the draft decisions have not been tabled and the meeting on the proposals will therefore decide tomorrow, which is Tuesday 15 July 2008 in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Zagorac? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. I had a procedural proposal before you finished this point, so it will refer to the point you just wanted to finish. I do not know for what reason, for what purpose, or in what way, you missed the proper announcement of the discussers. I think the Lipa Group has two minutes and 53 seconds left. I assure you that after the speech of Mr Saš Pečet, a respected fellow Member, I have been present in this Chamber all the time, you can also see the videos, but despite the fact that I am something together, you have overlooked me. And given the correctness of the debate in this meeting, given the proper announcement of the debaters in this assembly, given the inconsistencies, you and your co-worker, please allow me to have another two minutes and 30 seconds of debate, because if not, you will be very gravely violating the Rules of Procedure and demeaning the work of those who announce the time and debaters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u92	Mr Zagorac, after speaking to Mr Cvikl, there was no one in the Chamber of Mr Bevik, Mr Saiovic, Mr Ziherl, Mr Germić, Mr Jerovsk and neither were you to speak instead of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš. And the next was Mr. Anderlich, on a schedule that is also on your desk. And then Mr. Aurelio Yuri followed him, then Mr. Jože Tanko. I'm sorry, I'm sure you weren't there. I looked at every seat and wrote down whether it was or not. If you were present at that time, you would probably protest why Mr Anderlich is speaking, who is behind you. And I'm begging you to [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We never gave a word later when the Member came back. [[...]] I think it's just a matter of monitoring. I'm sorry that there's so many substitutions, and that's probably what's distracting you, because you're constantly swapping on the list and then the list is incredible. But the last three who followed you weren't replaced. Now we're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in Culture. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with Mr Sam Bevk, the first-signed. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mr Sam Bevk, to further explain the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. This year, the second law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture will expire. We have therefore tabled a new law extending its validity from 2009 to 2013. The first law was implemented in the period until 2003 by 32.45% for four cultural heritage programming units, investment in public institutions, and 33.8 million euros were provided for library and amateur culture during this period. The second law, which was added to it by the so-called cultural networks, was implemented by 40%. Thus, between 2004 and 2008, €41.6 million was provided for its implementation. Both laws were fully implemented by 33.34%. Just a relatively small percentage of the implementation of the law was the reason why in the Group of Social Democrats we decided to propose to the National Assembly to extend the existing law for the next five years, from 2009 to 2013, and for this period it will be necessary to provide some more than €80 million in state budgets. In order to extend the law, I took the initiative of Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, last October. Such a decision was also adopted by the National Committee on Culture and the obligation to extend the law is also enshrined in the National Programme for Culture. Since the government has not prepared the amendment of the law despite all these commitments, nor has it been on the deadlines for the National Assembly until the end of this term, we have decided in the Group of Social Democrats that we should put the draft law into the parliamentary procedure. Among successful projects in the field of cultural heritage can be the technical monument of the Konomeljska Klavža in the municipality of Idrija, Grad Jablje Loka pri Mengšu, the Delavska barracks in Jesenica, the church in Olimja, the church of Sv. Spirit in Montenegro, Ptuj Castle, town of Stromlj in Rogaten. In the programme part of the law there are 96 objects of cultural heritage. During the period of validity of the Law on Cultural Tolar or Euro there were major investments in the National Gallery, the Slovenian Ethnographic Museum, the Restaurant Centre, SNG Maribor, the Regional and Study Library of Murska Sobota, the Historical Archive of Celje, the Film Studio Viba Film, the renovation of the Slovenian Philharmonic and the construction of the Velenjska Library. There are 10 major investments in the programming part of the law. International comparatively, the Slovenian Librarianship achieves a high level of expertise in regulation and business, and central libraries have achieved it mainly in the organisation of business and the introduction of modern information technologies. By extending this law, libraries will be able to reduce or make up for the backlog of international standards, especially at the annual flow of books to the population and at spatial capacity. The law also preserves the level of development achieved in a fan culture and equates development standards according to local communities. Throughout the Slovenian cultural tradition, lovemaking has been a fundamental basis both for the general cultural standard of people and for professional cultural production. Without this basis, it is not possible to imagine a national cultural identity, in particular not because it is a highly developed and pluralistic cultural lover who can compete with the powerful influences of foreign cultures. Promoting cultural networks in the field of distribution and dissemination of publishing, art film and new media means greater accessibility for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to the cultural content that is also most threatened by the impact of the market and globalisation flows. This is briefly stated by 5 programming sets with a short outline of the content of the program. And to conclude. On 1 July this year, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an amendment prepared by the Ministry of Culture and proposed by a coalition containing a purified substantive and financial programme of unrealised projects which became an integral part of the amendment to the Act on the provision of certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia [[..]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] for the period 2009 to 2013. [[..]] Since no amendments have been tabled, I propose that the amended and updated text of the law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u94	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Grimes to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! The Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture at its 33rd meeting on 1 July 2008. At this meeting, the Committee, as the proposer has already said, has also adopted an amendment that has detailed all the programmes and at the same time financially evaluated them. The amendment was actually made with the help of the Ministry, which I have taken personally for myself, because in some ways this law can also be regarded as the product of the Committee's joint efforts. The Committee has already adopted a unanimous decision a number of months ago to adopt or prepare and then adopt a special law to extend the validity of the current law. And this marriage is ahead of us today. Without this addition, the law would not meet all formal conditions, as the legal service has also pointed out, and should be rejected today. In this way, however, the law is appropriate and suitable for further consideration. As it is said, this was the product of a joint effort. I hope that this has been done by everyone in good faith, that Slovenian culture deserves this, because it is not only about keeping it and developing it, but also about putting it on the sidelines of all other European nations. For this reason, as in the vote of the committee where a high level of consensus has been reached, I expect, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, such a high level of consensus in support of this law, to be held today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u96	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Minister of Culture, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011, we stated, inter alia, that cultural policy will endeavour to extend the validity of the laws on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture for the next five years, 2009-2013, to the extent that it will ensure the completion of projects as provided for by the law. This commitment is now under way. A text is being prepared to ensure that what we have set is completed after the adoption of the National Assembly. As you know, during the duration of the first law, which is in force from 1999 to 2003, it is intended to provide funds for four programming units, namely the rehabilitation of cultural heritage facilities, the achievement of international library standards, the resolution of spatial problems for certain public institutions, the further development of amateur culture was achieved in 1999 - 46%, in 2000 - 38%, in 2001 - 28%, in 2002 - 26% and in 2003 - 27%, according to the law. Due to poor implementation, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to this Act was adopted in 2002 with effect from 2004 to 2008. Another set was added to its four programmes: "Promoting cultural networks in the field of publishing, cinematography and modern information technology". The use of resources to achieve the objectives of all five sets is the following: in 2004 - 24%, in 2005 - 18%, in 2006 - 33%, in 2007 - 47% and in 2008 it is expected to be 54%. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing this law for the period 2009-2013 only includes those projects that have not yet been implemented and for programmes where only the purposes are mentioned, it only includes the amount of funds which have not yet been implemented in the light of the first extension of the law. The proposal for amendments and additions to the law provides that the budget of the Ministry of Culture for the period 2009-2013 must provide a total of EUR 80 million 758 000 for the following purposes: investments in public institutions, renovations of monuments, librarianism, amateur culture and cultural networks. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in the culture of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports and proposes to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u98	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The distinguished representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Nine hours, almost, we talked about tanks and hoodies, while our cultural heritage, which is the foundation of our Slovenia, will be eliminated in a bad hour. Which makes me very sad. We talked about how the tanks are lubricated and preserved, but we are not going to talk about how, for example, the Turjak Castle area is falling apart. We talked about whether or not the hoods were tested, while every day we walk through the cultural heritage of our country of the Republic of Slovenia, which we obviously see as failing, but for which we do nothing. And, after all, is it not sad that we must for the third time extend the law, with which, unfortunately, we will correct all that is ugly, dirty and decaying, rather than say that we will restore and rebuild. Thirdly, for the third time, we have to amend or adopt a law amending and supplementing the law because, twice so far, what we are supposed to do with the adoption of the law in the first four years has not been done and the exploitation has been a third and, in the second four years, the use of funds and only a third. And probably, although I truly would like to, only a third will be used in substance and quality, and we are likely to listen and change and add a new law again in four years. I stress that it is sad because cultural heritage is the essence of Slovenia, because in this law we have very precise descriptions of all cultural monuments, all about librarianism, whose investments are needed to make us culturally aware of what is going on with the cultural culture and the cultural network, described precisely, drawn nothing. For everything else we have time: for pre-election games, for washing dirty laundry, for filling and lying - 9 hours. And it will be sad to have a pump and, as they say, a philosophy for rabbits, for the media that will talk about weapons, about accusations, about convictions, about searches, while the living God will not tell us what cultural monuments we must preserve, so that they will not completely fail, and which we want to improve and have and with them attract people to know us by our own language, by our cultural beings, and not by our hoodies and tanks. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending the law on the provision of funds. By reminding us today of all the things ahead, we need to watch, too, why what is written down and money will not be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u100	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Lipa Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Yes, the fact is that the law needs to be supported in order to get the rest, I think 70% of what has already been planned, which should be restored, renovated, restored in the area of cultural heritage. But you know what worries me about the whole thing? That the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has very strange priorities, which is most important in the field of cultural heritage in the Republic of Slovenia. When I look at the list of things that will renovate, restore, and leave behind what has happened in the last three years of this government, I am deeply concerned about favouring the sacral heritage. And I agree, yes, it's nice to look at a church on a hill with a new facade, a new bell. That church, which is exempt from the rule of law of our country, which does not pay taxes, is, I'll say, entitled to all the other taxes. On the other hand, I turn over a sheet of paper, historical monuments. And I find it heartwarming how demeaning this government is at the expense of historical monuments, including those that touch NOB, II. World War II. On the other hand, respectable colleagues and colleagues, what is it, I will ask the competent minister representing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia what is with the monument of demonstrations of Ljubljana women between II. World War? In 1943, women's demonstrations in Ljubljana were at the table church. This is that disputed monument to the church that was lost to an unknown place. And some excuse his disappearance with emergency restaurant parts. However, it is not in the programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And he's not, because then women were alerting them to fascism, to belogardistic violence. But, dear colleagues, this is part of our history. It was a monument. And he was miraculously removed. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia renewed funds for the symbols of fascism that stand before the main entrance to the government or presidential palace months ago. Despite the fact that financial resources have not been found to remedy much more important matters, the same government has not found them. That is why we are now adopting a law to extend the deadline for the renewal of cases that were already included in the government or the Ministry of Culture programme years ago and should be completed by 2008. This fascist symbol, which is at the government palace, a respected colleague and colleague, a boutique around which there are ten cut beams, you know, contains messages of the relationship of submission and of slavery and slave ties in terms of power and power. That's what we had the money for. That was the priority. Why? Just a rhetorical question. Because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is so effectively subordinated to the entire state administration. Well, not just the state's office. Her hunters go even further. I am sad, disappointed at the priorities that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia chooses and favors [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It would make sense to observe and respect history, a historical heritage. [[...]] And there are also monuments, I'll say, in memory of events during World War II, but these are unfortunately not among the priorities of this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Procedural Proposal, Mr. Grimes. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u103	Mr President, please, if you could remind the lady who has just spoken, because she knows very well that she cannot, under the Rules of Procedure now, hold back her reply, nor explain things, Mr Minister, nor the proposer, nor can I do so myself as chairman of the committee. It's a double abuse. Not only for the abuse of the procedure at the moment, but also for this joint effort of the committee to reach a point, and we have achieved it, by which we have demonstrated that we are able to go beyond just the party framework when it comes to key issues for Slovenia when it comes to issues of Slovenian culture, now wants to plunge into one of the muds of cultural warfare. I can't say otherwise than I deeply regret this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u105	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president of the National Assembly! Dear Minister of Culture, Dr. Vasko Simoniti with a colleague, a respected colleague and colleagues! If I were to say briefly, we could also add to these joint efforts of the Ministry of Culture a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of funds for some of the necessary cultural programmes of the Republic of Slovenia that we are considering today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of what cultural heritage means, what cultural monuments mean, for which both the State and the competent ministry, and in particular Members and Members of Parliament, we are working here in this National Assembly to preserve them and leave them to our craftsmen. This is part of our identity and part of our responsibility and the task of doing so through the adoption of positive legislation. If ever, then we can certainly argue for this bill that it is not such an important party's interests, political interests, but it is a much broader concept to bring about positive adoption and provision of resources for some of the most urgent investments financed by the state. An assessment of the implementation of the Cultural Tolar Act, on the provision of funds for certain emergency cultural programmes, in the period 1999 to 2008, shows that only 33.43% of the law will be implemented, and therefore it is essential to extend the validity of the law for the period 2009 to 2013. Of course, I have to look back here and the efforts of those who have somehow taken the initiative, of course, on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport we have followed this positive view, a positive approach with a positive opinion by the Ministry of Culture to support such content, such proposals of laws. And certainly, when we look at the list of what these facilities are, of course, is a dispersion throughout the whole part of the Republic of Slovenia. This also gives us a positive view in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this should also be supported. Together with the Ministry of Culture, we have adopted a certain amendment on the Committee on Culture, which defines these matters even more precisely. This is why we will also support the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. The fact is, as I said at the beginning, that we care very much in our SDS Group and that we have looked back also with regard to implementation - these percentages are extremely small compared to 100% of the share. Of course, there is an expert question here, because all of these monuments, which are financed by the State in one way or another, are in a state where it is difficult to predict how much resources actually need to be allocated, because visual checks of these facilities give a completely different picture than when we find ourselves before the preservation, restoration process itself, and then other dilemmas are opened up and additional resources must be provided, and consequently the extension of this law, which guarantees the so-called 'cultural tolar', which is not already the euro. However, the essence of the adoption of this law is that the State will be able to provide the necessary financial resources for those facilities listed in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u106	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Social Democrats' Group has repeatedly launched the Act on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. It has also been linked twice to an initiative to extend the deadline, given that those basic cultural programmes that would be worthy of specific financial support have been so poorly implemented, and we have now heard that only a third has been achieved. The Minister's preference or willingness to provide funds for the continuation of the programme, which has recently received some materialisation in the National Programme for Culture, was also an initiative to draw up a proposal for a law in the Social Democrats' Group, with the first-signed Bevko, and to receive, which we are particularly pleased with, the support of other parliamentary groups. It seems quite normal for us to see that this table part, which has been tabled as an amendment by the coalition groups, has been prepared by the Government. It has all the relevant information that could be used to complete a list of those facilities and those programmes that were already in the previous law, but of course with new numbers. I would like the information to be as accurate as possible to be stopped in the first programme, this is the rehabilitation of the most endangered and best-quality objects of cultural heritage. This item is expected to be €31 million over the next five years by the country, I am rounding the figures. And if I look at which items inside this would go the largest amount of funds, it's a set of castles, castles, and profane palaces. Approximately the same amounts, about two to three million, can be found in old city cores, cod and village settlements, then in the sacral heritage, in fortresses, defence monuments and former monasteries, in technical monuments and historical monuments. Small amounts are intended for memory houses, open-air museums and archaeology. I am particularly pleased that money will be provided for the memorial houses of Primož Trubar, for the birth house of Simon Gregorčič, Blaž Arnič, for the castle of High, for the gallery of Rick Debenjak, for the birth house of Fran Miklosič, for the memorial house of Oton Župančič, and for the birth house of Dragotin Kette, home of Misko Kranjc and Prežiho's household. This merely lists some monuments that will be restored from these funds because they are already in inadequate condition. Some of the other programmes that can be identified in the five annexes are such that they will provide some additional funding as an incentive to acquire or raise funds in the local community or European funds. This is simply a part of the country to be ensured that certain things will be settled, in addition to those in the budget and must be in the budget of the Ministry of Culture in the context of investments or regular activities. We expect the Social Democrats to experience from the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport that the bill will be supported. As it is said, this is a fraction of what the country in our view should provide in the next five years of all budget resources, so that at the end of 2013 we can say that we have fulfilled what the first law and two its extensions have promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Dear President! Good-bye! A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleagues! First, we might ask ourselves whether or not we need a law, given that the law was adopted for the first time in 1998. If we were so rich on material wages today, but I would also add on spiritual pay, and we would devote or have much more financial resources at our disposal, we probably wouldn’t even need a law. It is true, however, that, as is often the case with us in the adoption of the budget, there would be some problems when we ask ourselves on the one hand whether we have a legal basis, but there is no money, and on the other hand we do not have a legal basis, and we would use some money to do so. We know this from the past years when we adopted the state budget. However, I would like to mention, given that it has been somewhat critical to mention how much funding has been earmarked for this area in the past period, now of these five areas, and how much of the state budget has been used, it would be good to mention that certain projects, which are also very precisely mentioned in this amendment of the law, have in fact been the subject of realisation in recent years, but in some years they have not been realized - no documentation has been prepared - and then the local community carried out projects, and that project has failed. Unfortunately, however, those financial resources were not used for another concrete similar project. In Novi Slovenija we support the amendment of the law in order to make a commitment in the coming years, according to this funding in the period 2009 to 2013 for these projects to be completed. But that's what I have to say. In particular, in specific areas, I have in mind the cultural heritage, if you want to end this with this amount of funds, a number of projects will not be able to be completed. However, I must express this satisfaction that today there is a completely different approach by the Ministry in terms of funding, so that the projects can be completed as soon as possible. I remember ten years ago, for every single project, a never-ending story. From this point of view, I would like to commend the Ministry. As far as priority is concerned, I would also like to mention that in Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the priority is the same as it is. Two thousand years of known history, the sacral heritage, what we have heard, the priorities of only two million financial resources compared to castles, castles and profane palaces. Thank God there would be more resources, including for this area, but there are only 17 million euros. In view of the fact that the realization of past years by the Ministry has also depended many times during the year on the correction of the budget, which has often been done with a minus foregleam. When some financial resources were needed, the Ministry of Culture unfortunately always had to contribute a certain proportion. I was often disappointed that it was in this area that the minus 3% had to be sacrificed for certain other things. However, I am sure that this will not happen in the future, but that these projects will be implemented. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister with a co-worker, MPs, Members of Parliament, a nice greeting. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that culture, which is an important foundation of our national identity in addition to the Slovenian language, is not often spoken of in these areas. We certainly support the continuation and completion of programmes and projects from the so-called 'cultural tolar'. It would be right that all the urgently needed programmes and investments that have been included in both of the cultural toll laws have been taken into account as a matter of priority, but have not yet been implemented for such or other reasons. We therefore agree that it is necessary to extend the validity of the law for a period from 2009 to 2013, i.e. from the following year for 5 years. It seems important to us that the revitalisation of the most endangered objects of cultural heritage continues, as it is the irreplaceable and unique valuables of Slovenian history and culture. In the end, we are also bound by international instruments, especially the UNESCO Convention on the World's Natural and Cultural Heritage. We are all also aware of the fact that Slovenian libraries are likely also because we are a small market, and thus always lack resources for librarianism and are therefore lagging behind in achieving international standards. Priority should be given to all those programmes and investments that have already been included in both laws. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When Members and Members are happy to act in support of this proposed law, I can only say that we are also in the DeSUS Group of Members among those who would otherwise provide all the support for the provision of funds for those cultural programmes which would otherwise be better financed through regular programmes and would not appear as urgent intervention measures. The attitude towards our identity needs to be expressed not only at the declaration level, but also through material, spatial, technological, financial support, and this bill also brings us. I'm afraid we've had some bad experiences. In the last decade, it has been seized only a third of what has been promised at the declaration and also at the formal level. And we have another bad example in not being offended, but in the coalition treaty we have written down how we will take care of cultural heritage, for example, one of these segments that we are talking about today, and we still have to act urgently. While there they also wrote down how we will build the NUK, and he did not have this happiness, more favoured some of the bills that were more politically motivated and called the Fund for pluralisation, measurement or any kind of spread through RTV. But that's history now, and there's no point in doing this for too long and over-renewing. The law is necessary as a proper address. And worse than it is realized, it is more necessary because the programmes are not implemented, because at least in some areas, such as cultural heritage, some programmes that have not been implemented are only getting worse by moving away from time, or perhaps more investment is needed because the damage has increased in between. And it will probably be necessary to provide additional funds for some of the new programmes that appear and have not been at our forefront at all times. The problems in this law are the problems that need to be highlighted, namely the third realization of what is usually promised. The problem is that it is only a matter of emergency programs, and the problem is that, as the law in the title says, some programs are involved. It would be good if we had everything recorded and everything presented as what needs to be done. The second question is whether all priorities have been adequately selected. But it's also a late time now. Our DeSUS Group will therefore support it with the desire to fully implement this programme or all projects and programmes as soon as possible. However, only for the opinion would we like to point out that some information is likely to need to be supplemented or corrected, namely data relating to the restoration of cultural heritage. As early as 96 C.E., for example, the congregation of Ruše, because of its talk here, suggested that some other facilities be renovated. One such is the Fal Castle, which, according to some figures, had received the status of the University of Fal since 1628 from the University of Vienna. And maybe there'll be better times for him sometime. We are pleased that the Lovren Church of Radegunda is included. We are also pleased that the town of Viltuski Castle will have to be located in the village of Selnica and not in the congregation of Ruše. This repair needs to be done. However, since the Viltu Castle has already received a few small funds in recent years, we would like it to now be more in the package so that what is invested in this castle does not collapse faster than it is in the means to continue the programme. So the DeSUS Group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u114	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the amended bill tomorrow, which is Tuesday, 14 July 2008, in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue tomorrow, Tuesday, July 15th, at 9 p.m. At 8:30 p.m., it's the College. Thanks for joining us, and I'll see you tomorrow. Goodbye!
