ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Please calm down, take your seats. I begin the 41st meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Zvonko Černač, Ljubo Germič, Franc Ferry Horvat, Victory Jelinčič Tribal and Mag. Anton Rop. I have invited the President of the Government of Janez Janša to the first item, the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda and the representative of the Council of Justice to the 17th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 41st meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 2 July 2008. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who have participated in the preparation and implementation of the contract on the purchase of infantry armoured vehicles - medium-sized armoured vehicles 8x8 because of the suspicion that the transaction is politically agreed, conducted in a non-transparent manner, and because of the suspicion of the presence of clientism and corruption and the suspicion of a direct or indirect link between current and former actors and holders of public arms functions between 1991 and 1993. You received the proposal by letter dated 8 July 2008. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Potch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u2	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I propose to withdraw from the agenda the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which proposes the discharge of the member and the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Magi. Milan M. Squeakles. The proposal is contrary to the provisions of the Law and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. The proposal for a decision, referring to Article 3 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, overlooks two important facts. First, yes mag. Milan M. Cwickl has not yet been appointed a witness, as only three members of the commission of inquiry have suggested so. Article 12 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation merely provides that the Commission of Inquiry shall adopt and carry out the evidence at the request of a third of the members of the Commission of Inquiry. The Commission must therefore accept the evidence, which means that it must not reject it, but not accept this evidence at the time the three members of the Commission write such a proposal. And the Commission, which was supposed to decide on the evidentiary decision, was convened and could decide on it, but the Vice-President of this Commission, Mr Robert Hrovat, voluntarily cancelled the meeting so that no decision could be taken on the witness. And second. The law provides that a Member may not participate in an investigation committee if he is designated as a witness in an investigation case. I would like to point out, in a matter under investigation. Three members of the Magi Commission. The training was not proposed for a witness in the procurement of 8x8 armoured personnel but was accused of personal connections that would affect his conduct of the commission of inquiry, which is not substantively true, but not in relation to the subject matter of the investigation. In the Group of Social Democrats, we point out that the reference to the opinion of our legislative service in proposing solutions is not correct, as the Legal and Legislative Service only explains that a Member should not participate in the committee of inquiry if he is a witness in the case under investigation, but does not claim that Milan M. Szvikl is designated as a witness in the procedure laid down by law. In view of the great, even the unprecedented significance of this decision, we recommend that you, colleagues and colleagues, as well as you, Mr President, consider whether it is appropriate for this item to be placed on the agenda. We're proposing her withdrawal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u3	Thank you. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on the withdrawal proposal. We're moving on to decision-making. First of all, I'm asking you. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] As a representative of the parliamentary group or as a proponent? [[...]] Yes, there you go. You have the floor, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I expected your silence, which, at least as far as the coalition is concerned, convinces me that you will not support my proposal, rather than the other way around. However, I would advise you to reconsider your future decision. It is certain that the formal conditions for deciding on the discharge of Mr Magi are formal. Milana Squeak is not fulfilled and it will be wrong if we decide on this today. And more importantly, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition should point out that most of the Slovenian public know that in this particular case it is not primarily formal but that it is substantive questions that the coalition wants. Milana M. Szwikla should be dismissed because the only commission of inquiry led by the opposition has led to a point where he could propose the adoption of conclusions that would alert him to the suspicion of conduct for which political responsibility might have to be established. Mag. Exercise needs to be resolved because it can indicate a suspicion of unacceptable behaviour in the ruling coalition. The decision not to do so for political reasons will, however, be the first-ever precedent in this National Assembly. Misappealing the majority of the House of State to dismiss the President of this Commission just before the end of the term of office is not a political correct course of action, contrary to the law and the rules of procedure in the parliamentary inquiry. Such behaviour is a high level of abuse of legal possibilities for political objectives, indicating unacceptable methods of handling this coalition. On the basis of this case, even in the future, the majority will always be able to invent a reason and prevent the work of the investigative commissions. Consider if this is an acceptable solution. Respect for the Constitution, the laws and the Rules of Procedure should be allowed to say, otherwise there is no special feature of the National Assembly and the ruling coalition, but consider whether such grave violations of the Rules of Procedure are necessary to achieve their objectives, your objectives. Especially because without them on what day of patience and what new methods without special arrogance can ensure the achievement of the same goal, whether or not you know it or are arrogant enough to think that the path you have chosen is the only right one. We believe that the objective of this National Assembly is increasingly being devoted to resources, and we feel that such conduct is not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u5	Thank you. Please check the voting device. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 38. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the agenda be extended by means of a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate income tax, a necessary procedure. You received the proposal by letter dated 8 July 2008. Would you like a representative of the proposaler for enlargement? [[No, no, ……]] Since the draft law is prepared in accordance with Articles 117 and 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, both the Government and the group of Members with the first-signed Mr Pótræ have the right and duty to proposers of the law under this Rules of Procedure. So the proponents don't want to. He wants a word from a government representative as a proponent? Not at all. Does the representative of the Group of Members want to speak as a motioner? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I see one hand. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u6	We will not object to the proposal to introduce a law amending the Law on corporate income tax, but we regret, of course, that the law is prepared so that only a very small group of micro and small enterprises can help with some additional relief. In doing so, the law proposed by the Members of the Social Democrats was introduced with the first-signed Mr Ptrec, which would help the entire Slovenian economy more quickly. However, the committee decided that this part was not included in our proposal for a law, so let us of course do at least one thing. We will not object to placing the law under urgent procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly itself. We regret, however, that the Government is applying Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure in such a way as to circumvent the laws proposed by Members by a vague explanation of the urgency of the procedure. This is a dangerous practice, but of course the responsibility on the content of this law has been on the working body and we will discuss it at the time of the discussion, so we will not oppose inclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u7	Thank you. I am closing the debate on the proposal for enlargement and moving on to decision-making. We therefore decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 73 Members present and 50 votes in favour against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as item 3a of the agenda on Tuesday, 15 July, after item 17 of the agenda has been completed. With regard to the agenda, I inform you that on 8 July 2008 the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, pursuant to Articles 117 and 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carried out a procedure to deal with several legislative proposals at the same time governing the same social relationship. This is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, first reading, EPA 2033, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Income Act, Emergency Procedure, EPA 2172, and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Income Act, Reduced Procedure, EPA 2139. The Committee prepared the amended draft law on the basis of a proposal for a law submitted by the Government following an emergency procedure. Since this decision of the parent working body is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income, the first reading, EPA 2033 has thus lost its independence and will therefore not be considered by the National Assembly at its 41st meeting as a separate item of the agenda. However, in the context of the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Income under the urgent procedure, the Group of Members of the drafters of this Act will have the right and duty of the proposer under this Rules of Procedure. I also inform you that the Head of the SDS Group has proposed that due to the participation of some Members at funerals tragically dead on the Sava River, the National Assembly will not vote on Thursday, 10 July 2008. For tomorrow four funerals are foretold. On the basis of paragraph 2 of Article 86 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby inform you that the National Assembly will vote on the matters referred to in Wednesday 9 July and Thursday 10 July 2008 on Friday 11 July 2008 in the context of the votes already envisaged. Mr. Skull, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the Income Act, I fear that you are too dry to follow the rules of procedure and that you have not actually seen what has happened to these three proposals, which are formally united in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Formally united in this case means that the contents of those amendments proposed by the 22 Members group and for which a qualified majority of the 122nd Rule of the Rules of Procedure has been required to have a general discussion. Since this has been put on the agenda, with some trick that has happened in this working body, it has actually happened that this debate will not really be possible. It could therefore be understood that once again, I will say, the ruling majority has played this time a group of 22 Members on the content of the income provisions, which speaks of exemptions for the purchase of housing and similar things. It cannot be said that the procedure is united if in this merger, in fact, before the general discussion requested, the working body wipes all this out. What kind of merger procedure is this if the content we have been waiting for for for a long time to discuss it disappears from this text. The meaning of association is when one of these remains. In this case, of course, you have stuck to the fact that everyone interferes with the law on income, but in various matters. I, as one of the signatories and as head of the parliamentary club, am also protesting this procedure of yours that we are proposing. However, if this content is no longer available, and those who propose it, I will say what procedures if there is no general debate. Mr President, if you would like to clarify these matters more precisely and tell us how you will provide a qualified group of Members with a general discussion, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and what this general debate will be about.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u9	Mr Školč, I think you know the rules of procedure, and also the third paragraph of Article 117. In accordance with this paragraph, the parent working body has merged the proposals into one proposal. How it brought it together, of course, I am not involved in the process of how this working body did it. The procedure is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and whenever a hybrid has been made, both applicants have the right to act as a proposer. That is why we are moving on to the agenda. Mr Školč, you have already had a procedural proposal and please there is no debate on this subject, there is no debate and I think things are clear enough. Mrs. Pecanova, you have a procedural proposal, but only if there is a different content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u10	So, Mr. President. Since you're a very lucid judge of what's the same and what's not the same, you'll probably judge and take my word for it when you think it's time. I would like to point out that it is very clear in Article 117, yes, I agree that it is very clearly written, and I quote the first paragraph because this is more important than the third paragraph, if we are already in this; "if there are several proposals for laws that regulate the same social relationship, and the National Assembly has not yet begun its consideration of the draft law on the basis of Article 122" - this is now a procedural question, Mr President - is it the general treatment under Article 122, when does it actually begin? Does not the law begin when, on the basis of the request of the Members of the National Assembly, the law is placed on the agenda in general consideration? I think this has happened that this classification has begun and that the decision of the working body, which never discusses and does not deal with the laws in the first reading, has always been taken into consideration only in the second reading, has been a escapade which has been unprecedented in the history of this National Assembly. That is why I believe, Mr President, that it is the decision of the working body to reject or find that the law is not suitable for further consideration. The law is decided, which is in the first reading, which is generally considered that this does not work for this working body and for any working body in this National Assembly. For this reason, I think, Mr President, that, as an authority explaining the rules of procedure, if the meeting of the National Assembly is to be held, I should say, the dignity of the President of the National Assembly, and no matter what the professional services have done, no matter what the majority in this committee has decided, we will refuse this request and say, we will not work against the rules of procedure, we will not work against the rules of the game that we have set ourselves, but we will consider the law at first reading. Those two laws, which are in the same phase, I agree, are both in the second reading, one in short, the other in urgent proceedings, and we will consider at an urgent meeting of the National Assembly. No problem, do this, we will also help to deal with these two united laws in one, but we must not take the right to deal with this law at this General Meeting of the National Assembly. I think we should vote on this decision, Mr President, but at least if there is nothing else to vote on. At least vote in the National Assembly, not in some working body. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u11	Mrs Pečanova, let me, not to you who know the rules of procedure and Members, but to the public, reply that the hearing begins in the first reading at the meeting of the National Assembly, in the second reading, if there is no requirement for general treatment, but at the working body. And so it has always been, and so after this Rules of Procedure will continue in this mandate and also until the Rules of Procedure are amended. And please, this is not a debate about the decision of the parent working body, it was an opportunity on the parent working body. We take the agenda. Mr Školč and others, please don't force me to stop explaining or procedural options. Here you go, Mr. Sculpture, but be correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u12	As always, I'll be corrected this time. Mr President, you are deceiving the National Assembly and the public. If it were like you say that a meeting of the assembly would have already begun, then there would have been no complication. We'd start with a first reading. It has never happened that when the agenda has already been adopted so that the procedures can then be combined. You're trying to fool all of this if you don't run the procedure. The procedure has run out and the first treatment is glass. And the first hearing must be made in accordance with Article 122. That's the whole story. However, it is not possible to allow [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u13	Mr. Skolč [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u14	Mr President, it is not possible, of course. [[...]] I'm trying to do something for the good name of the National Assembly. There is no way for the Committee of the National Assembly to decide at first reading. You can't do that. That, Mr President, is the whole wisdom of this complication. If the government asked us to remove it, it would be different. She didn't do it. The government has agreed with the coalition to overrun the process and you have overrun the process on the working body and you have to answer us when you will provide us with what we have in the rules of procedure and the right to carry out the first hearing. Nor can this be rejected by any vote, Mr President. This is something that the Rules of Procedure provide. There's something else going on here. Your attention to beating the rules is too severe. And this isn't even about some very complicated stuff. The content is a matter that the entire Slovenian public will fully and easily understand, by the way it is applied, and this will have no consequences if you put the following things into the next sessions, for which you should also tell the Slovenian public, keep us all in check, not to mention when you will convene extraordinary meetings after July 15, and no one can plan for your families, for which it is so long, no longer than the absence from Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u15	One more time and one last time. The Rules of Procedure state that the mother’s working body can make a hybrid until the individual law has been dealt with. It does not say so until a general discussion has been made. And, gentlemen, we will not change the rules of procedure that you have adopted every week, and I think this is the end of the matter. One last procedural proposal I make, Mr Friend, please excuse me, Mr Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I know that your colleague Friend and the entire SNS are getting closer and closer to the elections, but I will still be "Mr. Zagorac". I believe, Mr President, that there will be meetings, that the agendas of the meetings will be - that colleges will also have to be "pulled" and I do not know what is going on, but that they will do all together the right time we are in. I understand that, and if you are sure that this will bring you any more votes, look, I will give you all my support, even though you believe that you will not. We place the law at the meeting at the request of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, although the law proposed by the group of 22 Members was approved at the college. The general debate has already been called for. And the mother's working body "pulled" the college. Which body, let me tell you, as chairman of this council's authority, is more important if you want to, in the hierarchy? The mother's working body "beated" the college! Your College, when you have already called for a general debate! If we talk about when a procedure for dealing with a particular law begins: the day the law is introduced into the procedure, when it is confirmed by the college. And when the college sets a agenda and a general debate, it can only be "pulled" by a government coalition with its magic and no one else. And that's what's happening. At the same time, we place on the agenda a point which does not meet the formal conditions for being classified, because it was once again wanted by two members of the government coalition and one associate member of the government coalition with the surname Noblemeniti. I will gladly confirm your agenda if this brings you any points, I will gladly press "for" in hope and worry about the citizens that you will not succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u17	Thank you. We therefore vote on the draft agenda as you have received by reference and by supplementing it. We were inconclusive. [[The ad in the hall.]] Mrs Pečanova, you have had it before, and I have concluded with this comedy of procedural proposals. We will vote for the second time on the adoption of the agenda as received by reference. I think we're all mature enough to start a normal job. Draft agenda as received by reference and adopted by the Supplement. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the agenda of the 41st meeting has been set. Before we move on to point 1, or for the suspension, the assembly will also carry out the procedure for determining the candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Electoral Law to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. Since Mr Kristian Janc, under Article 9 of the Law on Members for Death, terminated his mandate, the State Election Commission forwarded to the assembly the conclusion that the mandate of Mr Kristian Janc had been passed on to Mr Andre Fabjan. The findings were addressed by the Commission’s mandate, which also reported in writing to the assembly. You received your report on the bench today. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and put to the vote the motion for a decision, which reads as follows: Confirmation of Mr Andre Fabjan's term of office, born on 8 May 1957, Watchtower 1, Črnomelj. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite Mr Andre Fabjan's fellow Member to join us and take over his seat. At the same time, I wish him to do the work of a Member in satisfaction and success. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. on the 1st item of the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u18	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 20 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the President of the Government tomorrow, Thursday, 10 July 2008, at 2 p.m. The following questions raised at the 38th, 39th and 40th meetings of the Assembly will be answered by ministers and ministers present today. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. Ministers shall answer the question in no more than five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. With regard to the request by Members for an oral response to the next meeting of the assembly or its proposal to discuss the answer to the question put forward at the next meeting of the assembly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the annual programme of work of the National Assembly, today's meeting of the assembly is the last regular meeting of this meeting. The National Assembly will therefore be able to carry out a possible request for an oral answer to an unanswered question or discussion on the answer to the question referred to in Article 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure only at an extraordinary meeting of the Assembly. On this point today, Mrs Marjeta Cotman, Minister for the Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, and Mr Andrej Bajuk, Minister for Finance, apologized. On the bench, you received an overview of the questions and initiatives that were not answered in the course of business. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to Rule 249.a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which stipulates that the unanswered questions and initiatives of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government become irrelevant as the new government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government takes office. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions put at the 38th, 39th and 40th meetings of the assembly, first of all to answer the questions raised by the Members. The Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver, will answer Dr Mitja Slavinc's questions about the financing of public universities and the public music education issue. On the question of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, regarding the planned changes to tax legislation. First, I give the floor to the Minister of the Beast to answer Mr Slavinc's question regarding the financing of student programmes, sorry, regarding the financing of human universities. Here you go. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u19	Honourable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, honourable Member! Thank you for the question put and the opportunity to answer. The question was: Why do you not respect the contractual obligations in the financing of human universities? The question is about adult education, a broader topic where Slovenia can be said to be very good compared to some other countries in the European Union. The last interim report on education, training shows that Slovenia is also ranked as a summit within the European Union Member States after this activity. However, this activity is of paramount importance, given that one third of the workforce in Europe has inadequate education, which has not received adequate education under the formal school system, and it is essential that there are such organisations, educational organisations such as human universities, which somehow complement what the formal school system cannot. Similar problems as in Slovenia are therefore present everywhere in Europe. This is particularly great in Europe if we compare this region by educational origins with Japan or America, where we are significantly lagging behind. If I return to the essence of the matter, I can say that the Ministry is carrying out its tasks, but it is true that several times so far similar complaints have been made by those involved in this activity in adult education, mainly due to the delay in payment. Let me first say that the sources of funding for both human universities and other educational organisations are quite different. They are mainly financed by their own resources from participants, as well as from local communities, which are mainly the founder of these organisations, to provide funding, as well as from the country through annual work plans, as the country identifies national interest through the already adopted adult education strategy and also co-finances this activity. However, a good part of this activity is financed by the European Social Funds, let it be the correction of educational deficits and the like. Thus, this year, together with the Ministry of Labour, we have committed a total of €35.9 million, almost €36 million, to the Ministry of Education, of which €14 million. We finance about 8 million from the budget, and a little less than 6 million from European social funds. However, the complaints, which mainly go in the direction of why we pay back, are less justified mainly because we are also subject to an EU rule that requires payment to be made after work, which is an additional problem in education, because the work itself is taking place for quite some time. In addition, educational organisations must apply for calls to ensure that the principle of equal accessibility and equality is guaranteed, then, of course, they must do their job, at the same time, they must make a full request under all strict rules, and then, after a few steps of supervision, payment takes place. But I can say, honourable Member, that by the end of July in the coming days we will be paying off all claims entirely if they are not already, which are perfect, which meet the conditions for this. I think that this response will make the educational organizations, especially the people's universities, happy. But once again, we need to stick to the rules here, including those we have not set ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u20	Would you like a supplement, Dr. Slavinac? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u21	Thank you very much. In particular for this last part, Mr Minister, because I myself have been informed that certain payments have taken place and that those that have not yet been realised can be expected shortly. It is a pity for all that story earlier that you have not behaved more rationally and simply stated that the matter has been practically realized, and in this way have also contributed, at least once, to the fact that if the question comes from the opposition, it can also be useful. But now you've given me a few more points with that explanation at the beginning, who's all financing human universities. It is fortunate to see that other financiers also finance human universities. If we waited for funds from your ministry, I'm afraid we'd be doomed by now. It is fortunate to see that the people’s universities have been able to bridge the collapse of these funds through the municipalities, through European funds, and otherwise find themselves. And even if it is true that payments are made after the service has been performed, if this is stated in the European directives, it does not say that it is necessary to do so for one year, one year after the cases have been implemented. And that was the problem. And what's worst -- it's not just about human universities, it's also about some individuals who were expecting to pay their tuition fees, and we know that in most cases it's about socially disadvantaged individuals, to whom it means so much more. I agree with you that Slovenia is good in this area, and I wish that we could continue this story together in order to be even better and to make sure that these are financed more efficiently, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which are educated after completion of the study. [[...]] I wonder: Will you reimburse the rent of credits to those who had to do so because of the delay in payment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u22	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u23	As I said before, it's hard to continue paying for a service that you don't know whether or not it's going to end well or whether someone is going to finish school, education or not. It is therefore not possible to take any risks at that time, and the State must finance or finance only what it can do. Some of the risks of borrowing loans and so on are certainly not dedicated to financing from our sector. But it is true that we have quite a splendor for this activity. About 180 different educational organisations work in this area. I am pleased, even in the field of youth, we have PUM projects where private institutions are also trying to do everything to get those who have left school to leave school too quickly and not finish schooling to give them another chance to do so. However, once again, in a foreign country, this is generally not from state resources, as with us through annual work plans, these institutions are getting funding because the country has found a national interest in this area, which is purely right, but mainly from private donations, funds, foundations allowing this and this is quite a different approach. Thus, we have a fairly well-managed system in Slovenia through the public funding system. But once again, with European funds, the delay is due to rules that we have not set ourselves. Here, too, the system will not be able to improve significantly in the future. But you can't pay anyone before the job is done, even because of the nature of the educational work that takes some time. The only thing we can do is improve our service as the Ministry of Education and Sport. Our sector is understaffed, and I hope that we will be able to strengthen the human resources team in order to make that part, that time used by our professional and administrative services for this kind of work as short as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u24	Thank you. Now Minister Zver will answer Mr Slavinc's question on the issue of public music education. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u25	Thank you very much for that question. Music education is also one of the happy, good, successful stories of the Slovenian school system. Comparably, in Europe we find it difficult to find a country that would take such good care of this area, for this parallel school system. Perhaps we could find something similar in one of the Baltic countries and certainly not in Western Europe. Slovenia can set an example in the field of music education for other countries around the world. As you know, in 1999 the so-called Weimar Declaration was adopted, which recommends exactly the same approach as the Republic of Slovenia has to the development of music education. Therefore, it is not surprising that in Slovenia there are approximately 12.5% of students enrolled in music education. That's a huge score. This amounts to almost 24,000 children who are involved in this training in one way or another at primary or secondary level. This is a large number, in particular a percentage. It is true that in the last four years of this mandate we have not significantly expanded the development of music education; we have not opened many new schools, such as, say, wishes and needs. However, we have started to prepare with the help of the National Commission a new strategy also in the development of music education in Slovenia, which will give more emphasis to quality and development and quality promotion. It is true that we must also take care of the public network. Let me say that of these 23,880 children enrolled in music education, only 811 children are included in private institutions. So that a large majority of the participants in music education attend or attend music school within the public network. As you know, we already have music school, basic music education, secondary music education in kindergarten, and in the formal school system, the curriculum also allows for musical completion in kindergarten, elementary school and later. Thus, in the entire formal school system as well as in the special pyramid of music education, we have a very strong public network. We can say that the country places great emphasis on music education. Therefore, it is not clear that we are not concerned about the development and maintenance of a public network. Given that the vast majority of participants and schools are public, the State is primarily concerned about the public network. However, we do not just want to maintain and maintain a public network; we also want a slightly more plural structure. Here too, however, desires fall within certain frameworks that are somehow related not only to human resources but also to financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u26	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Dr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I am also pleased here with your correct assessment of the situation in the field of music schools and I am pleased that you have continued with the good tradition you have inherited from before. My question was, in particular, aimed at properly setting up the situation and relationship between public and private music schools. And I did not mean by my question to say that the Ministry does not care about public education, but I pointed out that there are cases, in particular in Murska Sobota, where there is a great interest in public music school enrolment, because the local community and not only the municipal community also invested in the wider local community of some other municipalities, invested a lot in the construction of a new music school, and therefore not only that there is an interest, but also that there are conditions, possibilities for additional entry places, but do not approve them. On the other hand, approve free cities, which means additional admission to private schools. And this is the matter that I have pointed out that if these relationships are already changing, then it should not be at the expense of public music schools and not at all where there is an interest where there are opportunities and where there was also a lot of tax money invested in building this infrastructure. For this reason, I would really like you to examine, re-examine the numbers in other environments, sometimes it is likely even worthwhile to reduce even if there is no interest in this entry, and harmonise these relationships so that no one else gets the feeling that private education is developing at the expense of the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u29	Thank you for that additional question. This latter is difficult for us to develop privately at the expense of the public. It is true that in this mandate we have also addressed the systemic issue of private education, including music education. As you know, it's only 85% funded, and it's just programs, not everything else, investments and the like. However, there is also quite a lot of pressure from the private field not only within the public network. As you know, we have several successful private schools: Tartini, Edgard Williams, Valdorf, Štula and several other schools that are also successful as well as public schools. And in some places there is a very pleasant synergy between private or public school. And I hope this will continue in the future. At this point, however, it is simply not possible to expand the public network substantially, nor is it private, because there is little money. However, this does not mean that the public network and the private network would not spread in the future. I believe that this door will also open with a degree of well-being, allowing children, students, to become increasingly involved in music education. I wish that there would be as few cases as possible as you have mentioned that the local community and other entities are investing in premises and then the state or public authorities are not allowing entry. I hope that in the future they will plan very precisely similar investments, not empty, but only those that will be eligible. I wish there wasn't a big gap between the two networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance, will now answer the question of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš regarding the planned changes to tax legislation. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! With regard to the oral question announced by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, which reads: Why, and what changes the Ministry of Finance is preparing under tax legislation, I would like to respond as follows. With regard to certain analyses and studies still taking place within the Ministry of Finance and its professional services, we are reviewing the Act on the Exceptional Cancellation of Tax Liabilities and on the Buy-up of Business Books, which lays down the conditions and the way in which an extraordinary tax write-off would take place, either on the basis of taxes and social security contributions, which are the revenue of the State budget, including the corresponding interest collected at the time of import of excise duties or environmental taxes and the purchase of business books for tax liabilities arising from the income tax or earnings of legal persons and the income tax on the activities of the relevant interest. What's this all about? This is an exceptional tax write-off, which should only be provided for cases where tax enforcement is unsuccessful and the right to recovery has not yet expired. These are cases where it is not possible to expect payment of the tax liability, even though the tax authority has used all legal means to recover the tax liability. We're still working on this project. The two measures would aim at decommissioning the economic operators of the tax authority and the courts by directing their financial resources and staff capacity to the treatment of current liabilities. We are still working on this and there is not yet any final project. Then in the value added tax law, as you may know, the Republic of Slovenia must by 1 in the framework of the European directives. 1. 2010 ensure the transposition of the two Directives into national law as regards value added tax. Above all, we are studying because there have been a lot of debates during our Presidency of the European Union concerning the prevention of tax evasion or the avoidance of VAT payments, which is not just a problem with us, but in a number of Member States. Then the Motor Vehicle Tax Act is also being studied. You must remember, in 2006, the government proposed and the National Assembly adopted amendments to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act. This was mainly the removal of abductions or the play of legislation when it comes to the sale of used cars, and we are currently analysing how they are being implemented and how effective changes we have proposed. This is also the subject of a permanent debate. Otherwise, all implementing rules shall be subject to constant analysis and amendment if it is established that it is possible. As part of our regular tasks, we are studying the amendment of the Tax Service Act and the Customs Service Act. If there is any enlargement of the European Union, this would mean for the tax administration and for the customs service certain changes that should also be planned in time, but it is unclear here when this could happen. In the last month, three proposals were sent to the National Assembly. One has already been adopted, and this is a profit tax law since the removal of derivative financial instruments, and in the National Assembly you have amendments to the Income Act and the corporate income tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u32	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, will now answer Dr Mitje Slavinac's question about funding student programmes. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Ambassador Slavinec asks about the evaluation of students at the University of Ljubljana compared to the same programmes at the University of Maribor. He also asks why he does not take a more active approach to solving the problem, which has already been pointed out in relation to the application of science and mathematics, including in Maribor and not only in the capital. And also with a specific question on the response of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology to the role of the University of Maribor, with the transfer of the Faculty of Science and Mathematics programmes to the 5th study group under Article 13 of the Regulation. Initially, I would like to say that the claim that the Ministry does not respond to letters is wrong, since we answer their letters to the University of Maribor, we also meet at meetings and resolve open questions, as with representatives from other Slovenian universities. Let me say that we were together by accident this morning in connection with the investments of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor and the Faculty of Energy in Krske. I would also like to point out that the Member's claim on the centralisation of natural science and mathematics in the capital is inconsistent and unsustainable and methodologically questionable. First of all, it is related to the absence of funds from students and graduates who are to be received by the University of Maribor and the University of Ljubljana according to the current system, and secondly by the position of the Faculty of Mathematics and Physics in Ljubljana and the Faculty of Science and Mathematics of the University of Maribor. Only two elements were taken into account when analysing and calculating the corresponding resources, on the basis of which the Member is likely to draw conclusions, i.e. the number of students and the number of graduates. However, the third, very important element was abandoned, this is the field of study. For example, the classification of students in the study group in the academic year 2007/2008 shows that 77% of students at the University of Ljubljana are in the first three groups, i.e. in those three groups with the lowest factors for the study area and 23% in the other three, i.e. higher factors for the study area. While there are almost 90% of students at the University of Maribor in the first three groups and only 10% in the other three groups. Similarly, the ratio in the number of graduates of the regular study shows the ratio. At the University of Ljubljana there are about 78% in the first three groups and 21% in the second three, while at the University of Maribor this ratio is 94% to 6%. The financing of public higher education institutions, as you know, is carried out in accordance with the Higher Education Act and the Regulation on Public Financing of Higher Education and Other Institutions, members of universities, is in force from 2004 to 2008. And with the status changes of higher education institutions, members of universities, which have also occurred in a specific case, the university, with the consent of the Ministry, has properly redistributed basic annual resources among higher education institutions, members of universities. I would only like to give general information that the 2008 study activity budget has allocated 46 million euros to the University of Maribor. Above all, with a specific question, I would also like to point out that, as I am aware, the University of Maribor is preparing a decision to redistribute the resources allocated for the study activity in order to enable the Faculty of Science and Mathematics to function normally this year, as it will also be provided with adequate resources. However, I would say that we have also been dealing with the spatial hardships that the university is dealing with today, and these arrangements are ongoing as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u34	Thank you. Dr. Slavinac, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u35	Thank you very much again. I am pleased that the institute of the question of the Member has at least indirectly produced fruits and contributed to today's meeting, and I would also hope that you will want to understand things. I believe you can understand that. It is very simple, it does not have to be buried in bureaucratic legal answers, but it is only necessary to look at the actual situation and realize that because of the specificity created by the division of a large faculty of education into three separate faculties, such conditions have arisen that the previous regulation simply did not foresee because they were not available and this must now be taken into account. I've given you quite a few options, or Article 13 or whatever, but simply teaching programs aren't all the same. Previously, the figure was 1.75 on the average of the cheaper and more expensive naturalists. Now there are 1.75 for a college that has only natural science programmes, only more expensive programs, and it is no longer the average that has been levelled before, which has already flowed within the same college. This is a thing that we have been pointing to for a very long time; and look, the Government's declaration strongly supports nature. It is also very much needed by the economy; everyone is dealing with the problem of lack of engineers and natural resources. On the other hand, with a simple solution, you do not want to find the simplest solution by which colleges that provide these staff would allow normal business, normal operation and normal study conditions for students. That's all it's about and nothing else. This, of course, makes it difficult for me to agree to this fact that inter-faculty solidarity, that some colleges give those who belong to it more, gets less so that they help it within the university to survive. And indeed, once again I appeal that this [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u36	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u37	Thank you, too, for this supplementary question. I would like to reiterate that the programmes themselves are included in the relevant group. In fact, the classification of the Faculty of Philosophy and Faculty of Science and Mathematics as a study group was carried out on the basis of Article 10 of the Regulation in the predominant fields of study or sub-sectors. The Faculty of Education in Maribor was originally placed in another study group and remained there after the status transformation and both new members of the University of Maribor were classified in the second study group according to accredited and also by a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the transformation of the university of certified study programmes. In fact, it is still a teaching curriculum, and beyond that, we can't have lawyers much longer than that, but not everyone else. However, I would like to point out that it is precisely the preferred rigidity of the regulation to allow the higher education institution to allocate annual resources for the study activity under the criteria adopted by the Management Board in accordance with Article 25 of the Regulation. They can be used to determine that a maximum of 10% of the resources are distributed differently among the study groups, and this instrument will also be used here. Far from the fact that the Ministry would not care about the field of mathematics, even at a concrete level, these intense discussions also appear in relation to the regulation of spatial issues. However, I would like to point out that, with regard to the amendment of the Regulation, we are aware of these real problems in the past year, as has been said and repeatedly pointed out, a named group dealing with the new source of the Regulation. The working group met at 10 meetings, attended by representatives of all universities, including the Universities in Maribor, Dr. Boštjan Brumen, Secretary-General of the University, Dr. Pavel Skok from the Medical Faculty of the University of Maribor, which deals with the method of distribution of institutions or criteria. So at the Ministry, we are dealing with these issues and problems, and the last meeting was on 3 July, next on 15 July. However, I would like to point out that a call for funding for development tasks in higher education in 2008 has also been published; the indicative amount of money is €2,500,000; technology and science are also identified as priorities. So these two criteria are particularly exposed, as well as the emphasis on teaching studies. In addition, we collected up to 26. 5. Application for a call for implementation of the Bologna Process and the possibility of obtaining additional funds under targeted research [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u38	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u39	I have a procedural proposal with which I wanted to propose a debate on this answer, but because of the specificity of this meeting and also because of the very response to sense, I regret that. Of course, I'd still explain why I think so. The Honourable Minister answered my question and referred to Article 25. And all I did was point her out to Article 13. And that thing that I think is the most important thing here and not that we're dry-handedly following this regulation, and we're looking for ways not to help college, how not to provide those funds that we all know we need. The Minister herself is aware of the problem, and I respect and appreciate that, because we talked about it. But I appeal that the regulation should be read so that we can find a solution, how we can solve the problem within this, but not that we are looking for excuses, why it cannot be done. And I have made some suggestions myself, and once again I point out that the Regulation, as any other regulation, regulates the situation at the time of the regulation being written. However, through the division of the faculty, there have been new situations that this regulation simply does not resolve in the right way, after such interpretation as the Ministry has. It is not true, nor is it true that there are predominant programs, that there are pedagogical programs, and again I say: whether the teaching programme is one where 10 students are enrolled, because it is science and because there is so much and so much exercise and so many and so few students in comparison to some socio-humanist programs where many students are cheaper, it doesn't matter whether they are teaching or engineering, but even if you consider us students on a two-pronged relationship to each sex, then it makes sense that the individual teaching program is also counted with the same factor. And in this case, even if we now look at how many individual programs there are, we can already see that the faculty is entitled to a higher degree. And the reason why the faculty is really entitled to a higher degree is certainly only that if we are also devoting ourselves to nature, not just to this college, but to others, then let us do it as it should be, so with appropriate concrete support. I hope that the debate at the next meeting in the next mandate on this issue will not be necessary to answer my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u40	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Slavinac to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, if the conditions are met, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Friday, 11 July 2008. The Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology will now answer Mr Sam Bevik's question regarding the Botanical Garden in Ljubljana. Please. Mr. Drofenik, you happen to have a microphone on, let's turn it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. In opening, I would like to point out that our Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is aware of the importance and value of the Botanical Garden in Ljubljana. This also indicates that I have decided to visit, officially, formally visit the Botanical Garden, talk with the management of the Botanical Garden, and also with others who are somewhere together, I can say, involved in solving the problem. In order to facilitate understanding of the issue itself, I would like to point out, in the first place, that the competences in this particular case are differentiated. The Botanical Garden is an institutional part of the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology in Ljubljana and I would like to touch on specific things that, I can say, are the closest and I hope in the coming months in realisation, which is our common cause, an investment in the plant of the Botanical Garden. This was confirmed by the Administrative Committee of the University of Ljubljana, which is also included in the State Budget for 2008 and 2009 and will be funded for the following year and will be financed by the means provided by the Treaty for the investment and investment maintenance of the University of Maribor or the University of Ljubljana in 2008 and 2009. This investment is, however, the responsibility of the University of Ljubljana as a whole. However, since I am also aware that this investment has been under discussion for many years, I wanted to be informed in detail by the University of Ljubljana before signing this contract, but on Monday we will meet at a joint meeting with the Rector, with the Director of the Botanical Garden, and also with the Dean of the Faculty - in particular, how to concretely take further steps. As it is said, the University of Ljubljana is responsible for the investment. The investment documentation is partly prepared, as they inform me in the letter. With regard to specific figures, I should point out that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology contributes to investment maintenance. For 2008, the budget provides €550,000 and €313,000 for 2009, totalling €863,000. I would also like to point out that this year, through the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, €20 000 has been earmarked and approved through the funding of the Agency for Research and Development.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u42	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! This area needs to be systematically regulated. In fact, since 2005, when I first asked Minister Zupan about this problem, although there have been promises, nothing special has happened. And the thing broke out the day this year, when the Municipality of Ljubljana stopped co-financing. Today the garden has only two gardeners instead of four, only five people care in the garden for 4,500 plants, and plants need to be watered and cared for properly, as does the whole botanical garden. We would need 12 employees to compare with other botanical gardens, neighbouring ones, in Europe, which also have significantly more employees. Once a transfer of 20,000 euros, promised by the Ministry, is certainly not a solution. Such one-off transfers and donations cannot be solutions, they can only be fire-fighting actions. Merkur’s donation to the Ljubljana Municipality of Ljubljana of 25 000 is also welcome, but it points to the same and non-systematic fire escape of the oldest higher education institutions in Slovenia. I hoped that something would happen at least now, and a meeting of ministries, congregations, and others responsible for this area had also failed the piano. Finally, we missed the ideal opportunity to give the Council of the European Union its presidency to France, because it was the French who set up the garden in the days of the Illyrian provinces 200 years ago. I'm going to suggest to the director of the Botanical Garden that he at least ask French President Sarkozy to come to our aid, but if in our country, practically no one cares about this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u44	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u45	Thank you, too, for this supplementary question. As I pointed out in the introduction, we are aware of the value and importance of the Botanical Garden in Ljubljana and the specific numbers I have mentioned also indicate that we want to solve and also solve the specific problem that has been lingering for a long time. Nevertheless, today or at that time, we have taken concrete steps. I would certainly like to express my own appreciation to the Director of the Botanical Garden and his colleagues for, in fact, their sacrifice work and, above all, congratulations on all the achievements and in particular on the recognition they enjoy in Europe as well as the wider world. As I have pointed out, we will have to meet and agree on how to do this, all of us who are in charge of this to get involved around the Botanical Garden as soon as possible. One is - The Botanical Garden must be preserved and also found a way to preserve it. However, such matters will be handled most easily at the table, not through the media, as some would have liked. However, it is usually difficult to reach concrete conclusions through these things. That is why I would like to highlight the open questions here at this Monday's meeting. But I am personally in the position that we need to look for solutions, not only in some formal transformations and in our view that we only want to arrange things on a formal level, but on concrete ones. So how to approach, so all of us who are involved in this rescue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u46	Thank you. Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic, Minister of Health, will answer Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem's question about the staffing problems at the Neurological Clinic in Ljubljana. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you for asking. Dear Members and Members. About neurology, about neurology, there has also recently been a few speeches in Parliament and also on the Health Committee. The fact is, there are a number of problems open here. One time it's an infrastructure, so it's just the completion of a new neurological clinic, and the other thing is personnel. And if I look at the completion of the construction first. Construction, of course, looks finished, but it's still part of this lower part, where it's a diagnostic center. I sincerely hope that the diagnostic center will be completed by 15. 8. Although such a supplier as Siemens has peacefully overlooked that he would have to get a CT device in these days and start looking for ways to actually bring a slightly different apparatus than the one he signed up for four months ago to deliver it. And I hope that we will save this communication without using the bank guarantee, which he has set for both hand and quality. As far as magnetic resonance is concerned, it is already in diagnostics and the construction work is practically ready for this. The second part - most of the equipment is in the ordering phase, and in the meantime there were minor complications at the highest order, as regards medical equipment. It was somehow a complaint to the audit committee by the supplier of Ambassador Gorenje, but the audit committee confirmed that the decision of the Ministry was correct when we said that neither of the two offers was complete and that there were mandatory negotiations and additions to missing parts. This is how we now proceed and I am counting on the fact that, after the Commission's decision, which was really fast, we will also be able to resolve the matter favourably. There are a lot of questions, technical issues, as to the electrification of the neurological clinic, and then this infrastructure section would be completed. It will have 126 beds, as much as the old clinic has today, and of course neither the bed nor the beauty of the clinic can solve the human resources problems, so we have focused our efforts on specializing in this direction and today there are 32 for this part. But there is, of course, one long period where it may have been a little neglected or a little forgotten that neurologists are so much less from day to day, and that is why there is also a variety of obvious disagreements within. And inside the Neurological Clinic, if someone goes to a retirement, which just one neurologist went to, of course, it's even more reflected in the lack. It's definitely a call, and I hear there's also an application for one neurologist, then for a half-time job, another one, so I have a message from the Clinical Center. However, it must also be understood that the Ministry of Health cannot be involved in the individual distribution of specialists, just as it cannot be involved in the individual division of beds, that this is actually an internal matter, that there is a Clinical Center, within this Neurological Clinic, and I believe that they will agree within the limits of possible. Those organisational changes that have been foreseen do not apply to this time, I have this message because it is already summer, because it is already necessary to programme completely differently, but professional leadership has decided to go on with this later in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u48	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u49	Thank you very much for the answer, although my question was actually entirely devoted to human resources matters in one of the departments. I warned you a few weeks ago, and I also informed you about the difficult and worrying situation in the department of neurological clinic for vascular neurology and intensive therapy. This is a section that covers the entire central Slovenian region with 600,000 inhabitants and about 1,300 cases of stroke. I asked you to introduce yourself to me or to be accepted immediately and to point out this to the management of the Clinical Center by taking short- and long-term measures, as the situation is such that at this moment there are 1,300 cases of stroke - and above all there is an unsustainable situation before leave - only five doctors and a supervisor are concerned, which is absolutely insufficient. According to professional criteria, this should be increased at least two to three times. The profession warns us and writes us letters that this is barely acceptable and safe treatment of patients. At this point, some doctors are still on vacation, and you know how important it is to be treated in a stroke within the first few hours. And that's where the big problems come in. Therefore, I call on you, please, on behalf of all those who can become patients of this department tomorrow, that Mrs Director Markoviceva has been signed a joint agreement in her drawer for three months to balance her staff. Because in one department, they don't deal with urgent and quick cases like this. After the summit, Madam Minister, the management of the Clinic Centre, according to my information, has not been present in this department for two years and the situation is obviously not well known to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u50	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u51	I really don't know when the last time was in neurology, but I know that together I invited them to the UKC Ministry and leadership and the management of the Neurological Clinic. Here, of course, the solutions were exposed, all from A to Z, including those who may or may not argue with each other, such information as comes. So, the point is, suddenly getting more neurologists is impossible. We work in the long term to make three strong centres: Ljubljana and Celje and Maribor. About those new jobs and this current solution I have told you how one and a half is, but of course this situation is not satisfactory, so they within the internal organisation must deploy neurologists who have not recently had the same clear sub-specialisations as they do today. And that's the problem, too, because it's going fast in this direction, and that's why it's going to get to the grass. But the fact that they're covering organizationally, as I've been assured, I believe they're professional enough, but I'm going to go over the matter again. However, I have very clear answers, which some do not have a satisfactory condition because they cannot bear it. Because if we had a place to take 10 neurologists today, of course we'd take them. But we could have done that by strengthening our specializations and that the specialists are the ones and that there are 32 who are working. That's what the power is to do. And one more thing, we have foreseen more resources specifically for this area, and we also need to find a solution in the direction of care centres, so that then all those beds that are occupied with those that are no longer required to be at the clinic, but that they can be at the care centre, in order to do so, are several million euros more foreseen within the 2008 general agreement for this particular area.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u52	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Although I don't know which session this could be, I suggest we discuss the problem, because this is a really serious problem, although I would like to point out a few more things now. True, the general lack of neurologists is great. But what they've personally warned me about is that within the Neurological Clinic they're simply arguing and that the management of the Clinical Center doesn't regulate these things, I'll say, right up to both departments. At the moment, the situation is that it is one of the sections, this is the section where patients are treated with a stroke, simply in such a state that it no longer provides patients with quality and professional treatment. And I think, Madam Minister, that there will be no new affair tomorrow, as it was today or yesterday in the media, that there will be no new affair tomorrow, because someone is likely to appear if only three, four doctors are working on vacations; here is the problem and the stroke is summer even more than it is in other seasons. I think it is necessary and I appeal to you to try to arbitrate between these, because it is definitely clear that within the Neurological Clinic there must be reallocations, that things must be balanced. Because here, in this section are urgent cases, quick cases, as I said before, when intensive treatment is needed in a few hours and it is extremely dependent on what condition and how later rehabilitation can take place. I have terrible information that maybe I don't even want to be "apherastic" here. I just don't want to talk about it. You know, I hope so, too, although we have been dealing with other problems so far, with buildings and other departments, but this department is in such a state that we can only expect a new problem or it will be swept under the carpet. However, for 1,300 potential patients in such a critical situation as a stroke, there cannot be as many doctors as there are fingers on one hand, and with all duty stations they are carrying out scientific work as well as other things; the situation is such that they are probably not discussing here in Parliament, but in your style such action will lead to short-term solutions. And these, I ask, are already published in the media today, but nothing has happened for three weeks is this issue already in the air. Nothing happened. No one has made any moves, there has been no reassignment, and I hope that this Gordy knot will be cut off by you, otherwise the responsibility will fall even wider than just at the Neurological Clinic and the Clinical Center.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u54	Thank you. On the proposal by Mrs Zalokar Orazam to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Health to her question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of the vote on Friday, 11 July. Dr Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance, will now answer Mrs Mag's question. Majde Potrat related to the use of funds to implement the periodic plan of the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Ambassador Mag. Majda Potrat asked the following question. How much funding has been earmarked and how much has been spent to implement the National Plan for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men in 2006 and 2007? How many of these European funds were there, and how effective were they in drawing these funds? Make sure that the following is relevant to that explanation. The periodic plan for the implementation of the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men for the period 2006-2007, prepared by the Office for Equal Opportunities, sets out in the tables the activities for the implementation of the measures in the first two-year period and the planned funding. The tables also define the way in which they are provided, specifying the budgetary user and the budgetary item. The main part of the action to achieve the objectives and implement the measures is planned either as an integral part of the regular work and tasks of the competent ministries and government services or as personal activities for which certain resources have been allocated by the ministries and government services within their budgets. Therefore, I cannot precisely define the use of all the resources spent on the implementation of the national programme's periodic plan. The Office for Equal Possibilities of Accurate Data on Funds used for a two-year period has not yet been collected. The operators of the measures and activities are a number of ministries and government services which carried out these actions and activities also within their regular work. In addition, some programmes from which funds for specific actions and activities are drawn have been drawn up over the years and have not been completed in 2006 and 2007. Non-governmental organisations are also carriers of certain measures. The Office shall assess the first period for equal opportunities based on administrative activities as a success. However, we have also asked for further clarifications, and as soon as I receive this, I will also transmit this to the honourable Members. However, if these data are not yet comprehensive, I would like to point out, for example, that the Office for Equal Opportunities spent €165,000 292 on implementing measures and activities during the first two-year period, of which €99 000 549 from European funds. The same opportunities for women and men were also intended for last year's European Year of Equal Opportunities, for which we received and also spent an additional €96 000 of European funds and planned 118 000 of our own resources and spent EUR 107 000 611 out of this. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs allocated €871,000 in 2006 to help out the long-term unemployed women, and in 2007 €718 000 was allocated together in these two years, €2 million 21 000 982. According to known data from other ministries, which, again, are not definitive, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has spent EUR 20,000 864 to carry out an international comparative study on trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology spent 50,000 euros on women's science scholarships in 2006 and 2007. The Ministry of Economy spent €224 000 on programmes to promote women's entrepreneurship in 2006, and in 2006 the Ministry of Culture spent €14 000 393 on the City of Women project. Therefore, according to the data now known, these ministries have jointly committed or spent EUR 335 million, 833 000. Otherwise, those data, as I said, aren't complete. We asked for further clarifications and some comprehensive image. As soon as this one is available, I'll also relay it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u56	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u57	Thank you very much for this part of the answer, Mr Secretary-General. We have already dealt with the report, but there were no financial indicators in the report that would allow us to conclude what had been done and what had not been done. Of course, I refer to the document adopted on 27 October 2005, that is, because the Government has committed itself to the Resolution on a national programme for achieving equal opportunities for women and men to monitor and increase resources. Therefore, even more so than the information you have just given me in part, I am interested in the question: What would this mean from the point of view of the increase in funds in relation to the past and according to the plan? The resolution states that we will get 222 million from the European Social Fund, which is recorded in the tolars at the time, but from our national budget we are expected to allocate 231 million tolars, an additional 40 European donations, means that most of the European funds are planned as our own. But that's not the only problem that came out to me. As the periodic plan for the implementation of the resolution for the period 2008-2009 has now been adopted, it can again be concluded from these financial indicators that it is not possible to see a more accurate representation of the funds used. This should be said, as we would like to determine whether we are following European guidelines, that we must not only quantify but also improve our priorities qualitatively. And the priorities I'm talking about right now are set out in the periodic plan. That is all I am interested in, Mr. Minister: How do you feel about setting up a special fund to provide one euro per capita with special means to prevent violence against women [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u59	Thank you very much for this additional question. What I think a particular fund should be set up or set up - that is why I think this needs to be fully reviewed whether it can also be implemented in the current regime. As I have tried to explain to you, it is somewhat complicated in the sense that we would have a quick review of how much funding has been earmarked, precisely in the fact that this plan, which this office has adopted, has been submitted and finally adopted, actually requires that all ministries - or not all, at least most of the ministries - actually participate in the implementation of this programme in accordance with their responsibilities. That is why it is difficult to extract from the data we have at our disposal. I would like this to be so that I can answer you today, but I simply cannot, because I do not have this information at my disposal, but I will already be committed when I have asked for some final analysis to be done, and this will also show whether any additional action is needed in this regard, as you have now asked the question, namely that a specific fund, as far as this is concerned, would be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u60	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u61	While I would like to propose a debate on the response of the Minister of Finance, not to make him personally admit that he does not want to answer this question, but I am aware that he is also in Europe at present - or in the European Union as well as within the Council of Europe - a very topical issue of financing planning, from a gender perspective or "gender budgeting". At all international meetings, there is a talk on this issue, including in the context of the planning of funds across ministerial departments, we could look at all the ministers present and tell them how this is happening within Europe. In fact, the Special Fund I have been talking about is the Council of Europe initiative at the end of the campaign by Parliament, united in the fight against violence against women, because it is a lack of resources in budgets that would really prevent this social evil that I am talking about. The real lack of funding is the most common obstacle to doing more than is done. For if we start with the roots of evil, first of all to help victims with the experience of violence - or women or children - in Europe, we will find examples of how they can find resources within the budget to ensure that those who are victims of violence are not deprived of assistance because they do not have the financial resources. For example, Austria has crisis centres organised in such a way that there is no need to contribute to anyone, even in safe houses and maternity homes, in this direction, we have these matters linked to a third of the participation of those who live in maternity homes or safe houses. European examples, as they say, are known, should be tried to eliminate it, and one of the proposals is such a special fund that some things could be financed from. And if we looked at it, 1 euro per capita and the population of Slovenia would not be such a cost that public funds would not be able to afford if we knew what public funds are sometimes not very usefully spent on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u62	Thank you. On the proposal of Member of Parliament to hold a debate at the next meeting, if possible, on the response of the Minister of Finance to her parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of the vote on Friday, 11 July. We are now moving on to the first round of fresh questions. First of all, Mr Dusan Kumer will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Given that the mandate of this government is to expire and that, at the beginning of its term of office, the same government has also pledged in 2004 to settle the salaries of directors of state-owned enterprises and public institutions, which are to be too high, it is right to hear results after three and a half years. The fact is that the Government should have arranged these salaries and also prizes, departures and also meetings of members of the Supervisory Boards a long time ago. And what's the result? In the area of wages of leaders in enterprises in the majority or full ownership of the state, it is chaos. At the end of 2006, the Court of Auditors also pointed out this. So, it seems that little has been done, despite the fact that some acts have been adopted within the Government, which are more recommended in nature, can still be heard in public today and you can read information about the high, enormous earnings of these directors. And example: the head of Dars, who has been more exposed in recent days to the quality of spending the amount of tax money to build the road cross. Five members of the Dars administration received $50,000 gross salary in April this year. The President of the Board of Directors 12.154,000 euros, in addition to the prizes, is some other ratings, this is a salary with ratings that simply does not allow the barrier to fall from the newly built tunnel near me in Shentvid or Podutik. And this is not a lonely case, there are also cases of high wages. Slovenian Railways - 9,000 euros, Aerodrome - 10,000 euros and so on, not to mention some health home directors - 11,000 euros and so on. Although the government has adopted a recommendation on how state supervisors should act in determining the salaries of directors of enterprises in the majority or full ownership of the country. However, this decision is not binding on supervisors and they can determine for themselves whether it is good for society and whether they follow it or not. So if you're wet enough to get 12, 13, 15,000 for the meetings, the awards, then of course you won't be lurking in the leader's wages. Therefore, of course, the Minister asks you: What is the trend in the level of meetings of members of the Supervisory Boards in 2005 compared to this year? What is this trend with regard to the level of retirement in these companies, the level of directors of wages in these companies and public institutions? Last but not least, compared to this: What is the trend of minimum wage in the period 2005-2?08.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for this question, Mr Member. The fact is, there are two different groups. On the one hand, there are meetings, the awards of members of the Supervisory Boards, including public institutions, and then they pay the emoluments of directors of companies that are majority owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Let me tell you that, as far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, we are not responsible for receiving salaries in the public sector. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Administration and as soon as we have received your question, we have also redirected this issue to our colleagues at the Ministry of Public Administration. I don't have a complete answer today. Otherwise, I would just like to explain that as far as meetings and awards are concerned, the members of the Supervisory Boards are concerned. The Government shall represent the Republic of Slovenia when it acts as a legal person as the owner of companies. Like any good owner of the company, the Government addressed the issue of meetings, awards to members of the Supervisory Boards, and on 15 February 2007 it may have adopted, in response to these warnings by the Court of Auditors, a decision on the positions on the remuneration of members of the Supervisory Boards. The competent ministries and government services must take into account the provisions of this Decision in the preparation of the Government's works to ensure the representation of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the meetings of these companies. Thus, meetings are determined according to the size of the company, ranging from up to €150 in micro-company to €825 in the largest companies. The prizes, taking into account the meetings already paid for each business year, must not exceed EUR 15,000; they must not exceed EUR 15,000; they shall also take into account the meetings of each member and shall be paid only on condition that dividends are paid. This is also clearly defined in this Decision. The government’s views presented are published on the Ministry of Finance’s website. As regards salaries and emoluments of directors in companies, the regulation of salaries is not within the power of the government, even if they are owned directly or indirectly by a majority of the state. This is the responsibility of the Supervisory Council, which is appointed by the Society’s Assembly, under the Law on Economic Companies. Article 270 of the Company Act provides for the provision of remuneration for members of the board. However, as regards salaries and emoluments of directors in public institutions and other public sector persons: the Director's salary policy in the public sector is uniformly regulated in the Public Sector Wage System Act and under this Act by the adopted rules applicable to public authorities and the self-government local community, public agencies, public funds, public institutions, public economic institutions and other persons of public law who are indirect users of the national budget or the local community's budget. Up to one. 3. 2006, that is, until the implementation of the Directors' Salaries Regulation in the public sector, the basic salaries of directors of public institutions, agencies and funds were fixed in accordance with two conclusions, namely the Decision on the criteria for the conclusion of Directors' employment contracts and the Decision on the criteria for determining the basic salary and the criteria for paying the Directors' performance prize. The amount of the Director's basic salary in respect of public law has been set at a percentage according to the Minister's salary, with the amount of the salary within the range of 50% to 90% proposed by the Minister on the basis of the opinion referred to in paragraph 13, paragraph 13, of the criteria decision. From 1. 3. In 2006 the basic salaries of directors of public institutions, agencies and funds were thus determined by a pay grade in which the Director's post under the regulation was directly classified in the payment grade with an annex so-called I or 1 - here is the Minister of Public Administration, which can give you better information than I do. And I expect that to be sent. However, as regards salaries and emoluments of directors in companies that are public undertakings, the Law on Economic Public Services does not apply to the determination of the salaries of directors in public undertakings established under the Law on Economic Public Services. They are still subject to these two decisions: the Decision on the criteria for the conclusion of the Directors' employment contracts and the Decision on the criteria for determining the basic salary and the criteria for the payment of the Directors' performance award. But you also asked what it was like to develop a minimum wage. According to data on minimum wages, which are also published on the tax administration's websites, the minimum wage levels increased by 15.5% between 2005 and 2008, with a minimum wage of 117.500 or 490 euros in May 2005 and 560 euros and 53 cents in May 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u66	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your answer. I'm going to serve the minister because I'm going to stay with Dars, where you're talking about the supervisory boards. On 26 June, the meeting of the Supervisory Board, at which the prizes were set, was an additional 15% of all the revenues received in 2007, to the President and to the board member of Dars. And last but not least, supervisors, where the President of the Supervisory Board has €1,072, have set up €104 000 for the last year's prizes for Darsa's supervisors. So let's stick to this and what I said before: one of the members of the Supervisory Board who, 14 days ago, resigned and sits at the same table as you at the government meetings, received 32 000 euros as a member of the Supervisory Board in a company where the majority co-owner is also a state and, of course, has some influence. And not least, when we talk about retirements in these same companies, where it is a partial or the entire owner of the country, are the benefits - you say, and this answer is always: the supervisors decide. Just put the supervisors in these companies, Vlada, they're not supposed to be posted by someone on the outside. And look, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The resignation is that one worker with 500, 600 euros a month's salary should work for 100 years, here you have an example of Petrol 511 thousand euros, a departure in Luka Koper not least 250 thousand euros and so on. [[...]] But these contracts were verified by the same supervisors set up by the government. And once again, some decisions have been adopted, but these are more recommendations and supervisors follow other rules adopted by the Government. And I don't think the government has done its job in this term.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. Secretary. Okay. Now Dr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister of Defence a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The question is very simple: What does the Ministry intend to do with the military station in Murski Sobota and with the military hospital ROLE 2? I will take a closer look at the details: at ROLE2 we have already discussed many times, I have asked several questions myself, unfortunately it is a 'roll' - not only as the name of the hospital says, but also in a broader sense. And yourself, Mr Minister, you have found that there have been major irregularities in the delivery and that you will have the matter cleared up, investigated by the competent authorities, probably concluded by the prosecution, the police and so on. The fact is that one supplier of equipment was selected, which then did not supply, but the supply was made through another supplier. On the one hand, something that was not ordered was then delivered, what was ordered and necessary was not delivered. It was chosen by the Commission to take over this equipment, then it turned out that this was not taken over by that chosen commission or at least not entirely, but rather taken over by some others who were neither authorized nor qualified for such acquisitions. And the situation at this point is that the ROLE 2 hospital does not serve its purpose, that it is more or less empty, that the equipment is at the so-called testing at the University Clinical Centre in Maribor. On the other hand, where the operational story began, the hospital in Murska Sobota continues to show interest in equipment and other types of cooperation. Finally, at least part of the equipment for which your ministry has gained interest could also be tested at the hospital in Murski Sobota. New costs are now forecast, about half a million euros, and so far the damage from the above-mentioned costs has also been estimated at a million euros. That's the first question. The second question is related to the military station in Murski Sobota. Despite your assurances, the Minister-in-Charge that a military station will be built in Murska Sobota, at a distance, and the actions of many who are also professionally associated with this war machine, are a source of concern and uncertainty. The last such activity was the abolition of the kitchen in the barracks and now they are driving food from Maribor. It takes an hour and a half to get her to the dormitory. We can all imagine what this food tastes like. And I want to know, what's the point of this decision? Is it again a rationalization to make it cheaper to drive and then perhaps taste better? I don't want to ask you any further.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u71	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First, I would like to thank the Member for the questions. True, I have answered these two questions several times in the National Assembly. About the mobile hospital first. I must say that the purchase that took place in 2004 is said to have been concluded before I became Minister of Defence was missed. We bought the capacity that we did not need according to NATO's objectives, namely, we bought a luxury hospital for the needs of the Slovenian Army. We need a mobile hospital in particular to support battalions when they go on missions. The hospital that was purchased is supposed to give support to the brigade. So I don't understand why it was so expensive. However, since the accident was even worse, it was later found that in the framework of the purchase of this hospital, which is too rich for the needs of the Slovenian Army, some equipment was also purchased, which has no mobile military hospital. In particular, it is equipment intended for diagnostics, such as lapascopy and so on. Regardless of when this was found, we have set up an expert team to find out what to do with this capacity, which equipment has been purchased, what to collect, and if it is possible to transform this hospital, which is otherwise intended to support the brigade, into a mobile hospital to support the battalion. I must say that the expert group has found that this is possible, so we have also begun to transform this hospital into a capable mobile hospital for the needs of the battalion. I would like to make it very clear that this capacity is not intended to complement the public health network, but is exclusively intended to support those units that are operating in different missions, which is also one of the obligations of this country. You have correctly concluded that this hospital is now established in Maribor, in the Military Office of General Maistra. This is because it is necessary to "complete" the equipment needed to enable this hospital to function for the purpose for which it was procured, that is to say to support the battalion when it is on a mission. I can say that these calls are running, the equipment will be delivered by the end of the year, and I expect this hospital, which will be transformed into a mobile military hospital, to be fully operational in the year or the end of 2009, which is also our commitment to the alliance. I can see that this completion, this transformation is taking place in accordance with our plans, and I hope that in 2009 we will be able to use this hospital even when some battalion will be deployed to the mission, as was the last year's deployment of the battalion to Kosovo. As far as the Murska Sobota military station is concerned, I must say that the initial plans were for the Murska Sobota military station to be abolished at all - this was the plan of the previous Ministry of Defence leadership. It did not seem acceptable to me, I felt that it was necessary to disperse the barracks in order to make it easier to obtain personnel throughout Slovenia. At the same time, I think it's very important that we still have troops in the border areas. It's not like you're saying that there's nothing done yet, to say that the design and the idea project for the new army has been commissioned, the contract deadline expires on 20 July, so I expect this to be done. Investment documentation is being produced, the contract was concluded in February this year and this documentation must also be produced by the end of July. Both documents will also provide a basis for the Municipality of Mursko Sobota to draw up appropriate spatial plans. As to the kitchen why food is being driven, I must say I can't but [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Sure. And allow the Minister to complete his answer in the second part. I would, of course, like to point out in the introduction that I did not claim that nothing had been done, on the contrary. I didn't say nothing was done, it would have been better if we hadn't done anything if we hadn't shut down the kitchen, it would certainly have been better. I believe you do not know why this has happened, so I warn you, because many times you have already made promises to us, confirmed certain solutions that will go against the interests and needs of people in Pomour, and regrettably, it is obvious at lower levels, which are more sovereign in deciding on details or are inconsistent with you, decided differently, and the result is that things are always less favourable for the people who are working in the military with us in Pomura. And for the whole environment, it is really unreasonable to drive the food from Maribor to Pomurje. On this point, I hope we both agree. With regard to the military hospital, I would like to point out once again that it was equipped one year later as you claim, that is, at the time of your ministry and given that you promised to give the matter to the investigation, I would ask you if I could obtain a written document from the competent authorities involved, which checked whether the equipment was actually delivered in accordance with the invitation to tender, in accordance with those documents in force, or was taken over as specified. Finally, I wonder why in testing equipment that is now, we all know, very much missing, only the University Clinical Center in Maribor would participate, and no equipment is available for testing at Murska Sobota Hospital. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u75	Thanks for the update. First of all, with regard to the kitchens, I really need to be honest with you that I don't know if they're actually driving from Maribor or not. I suppose it would be better if they didn't cook alone to buy it on Murski Sobota. But I'll check it out. As far as the army is concerned. I told the procedure that the documentation is being prepared for the municipality to have grounds to place this barracks in the spatial plans. You know that we will empty the central space in Murski Sobota, where there is now an old military station and it will be designed for a higher education centre or for the development of higher education. Construction is expected to begin in 2010. We also have this through our documents, in our plans and also the funds are provided. So, as far as the military is concerned, here you have the full support of the Secretary of Defense. As far as this mobile hospital is concerned. I must say, we have initiated all the procedures necessary in this regard through the Ministry of Defence Intelligence. It is true, however, that he led this process, directed the district state prosecutor's office, and that they did not identify elements that would point to crimes. The point is that the contract concluded in 2004 was not a good contract. As I said, it was about buying a mobile hospital for the level of brigade, which the Slovenian Army does not need. In this hospital there was equipment that no army needed, I said it was diagnostic equipment. But it is true that this was delivered during my term of office because the contract was respected. But as soon as I realized that this matter would not work, this matter would be too rich for the needs of the battalion, but we set up an expert group, which then prepared everything necessary to reshape this hospital. I must say, in a way, I am sorry that the State Prosecutor's Office has not identified any elements of the crime. I can't imagine how someone might have ordered the equipment that the Slovenian Army doesn't need and no one's finally answering. But it is true that such a contract has been concluded. And once again, this contract was not concluded by Defence Minister Karl Erjavec, but was concluded under another mandate. The important thing is that this hospital will be operationally useful. With regard to which hospital, I must say that we are now in the stage of training this hospital, and later this will circulate throughout Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u76	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u77	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister for Documentation on this proposal once again in the context of a procedural proposal. At the same time, of course, he also pointed out that what the Minister said to my question was not the kind of thing I was really asking right now. Look, you answered me about the orders, and I specifically asked you about the deliveries that something else had been delivered. And more importantly, from someone else as stipulated in the current invitation to tender, it has been concluded. That's the problem. Clearly, it was not a problem to supply what the military needed or did not need, but there was a problem elsewhere. So, who's going to deliver this, who's going to deserve this job if I'm very specific? And therefore it would be really nice to find out the competent authorities of this irregularity to see what was going on here. I believe that you, in good faith, have given this matter to the competent authorities and have also expected an answer such as you have just said before. But the problem, as I say, must be somewhere else. And even when I took this equipment, I also highlighted it. I am also interested in why one commission was appointed, and then this commission did not participate in the acquisitions, where other people were among those who were not appointed on this committee. I hope that there will be no need to correct any decisions on the appointment of commissions. It's the last thing we order. Why was a hospital like that even commissioned? Yeah, that data, it was actually the only one she could order back then. We also received this information from the army that no one else could get it or mediate the right ones. And I agree with you that a military hospital is not intended, and not primarily intended to complement the public health system. But it can and is right if a military hospital helps, for example, in cases like the Railways when the health center itself carried the raging water. And if this hospital were in office at the time, we could use it there. I'm sure that's one of the cases. I wish there were no more of them, but let us also be prepared for these, natural disasters, when the army can help and can be very effective in doing so because it has good equipment. And because of this, but, as it is probably said, there will be no opportunity, within this mandate, to discuss these answers a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr Slavinc's proposal that the National Assembly, if possible, hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Defence to his question, will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote on Friday, 11 July 2008. Mr Robert Hrovat will now also ask the Minister of Defence a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary! Members, as well as the public, were recently informed of a document written by a former official of the Ministry of Defence, Mr Peter Zupan, who was the head of the Basic Development Programmes Service at the time of the creation of this document, i.e. one of the key persons in the acquisitions of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The content of the document leads to a serious suspicion of obtaining legal persons' transactions in the period 2003, in particular by Viator&Vektor and Systematic Technology, through internal information through employees at the Ministry of Defence. The content of the document exceeds the market analysis because it provides direct business and political guidance useful to the supplier of military equipment. This is a genuine document that is not anonymous, and in the context of a chapter on lobbying, the author of a document written by Systemic Technics states: "All activities can be realized when appropriate lobbying and expediting procedures at the Ministry of Defence. Proposal: To convince the Minister or the Kremlin of the necessity of supply of the prototype 8x8 due to possible intervention by the Movag or the Finnish producers and to speed up the procedures for the conclusion of the contract for sanitary waves. The minister is convinced of the importance of concluding additional contracts for the following 36 vehicles, but version 8x8, until the start of the electoral campaign," and points out here, "to remember Janez Janša. To convince the Kremlin that only System Technology can also be a supplier of weapons and intercom devices as an integral product of the Slovenian Armed Forces." And, Mr. Minister, I ask you: How do you comment that a ministry official at that time, in 2003 and 2004, dealt with lobbying proposals for the benefit of Systemic Technology, with political definitions and guidelines, how can other manufacturers of light armoured vehicles be excluded from competitive offers? According to the documents, there is a serious suspicion of corruption and organised crime in the field of procurement of arms and military equipment through tendering procedures, in connection with the supply of vehicles 6x6 and 8x8 by Viator&Vector and individual related companies. And following the disclosure of this Zupan writing, it is now finally clear why the Social Democrats do not want to propose a replacement for Mr. Cwickel as chairman of the commission investigating the purchase of 8x8 - because it would appear that Mr. Ciccle's findings are just as unrealistic as those of Mr. Rope's accusations, and the Social Democrats at that time, clearly, cannot afford them. Mr. Minister, how do you assess the procedures and conduct of the involved, then Head of the Service of Basic Development Programmes at the Ministry of Defence? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u81	Yes, I thank the Member for the question. Let me say that at the Ministry of Defence we have taken all appropriate measures and procedures to identify the origin, status and purpose of this documentation or the credibility of the documentation, which has also been disclosed to the public. I myself do not wish to comment on the role, in particular Mr Zupan, because at this point appropriate procedures are under way and it would be very unfair on my part to comment or evaluate anything. However, I must say that when I saw this documentation and read it, I was a little surprised because I did not expect that in the past it had worked in such a way that it even officially made various recommendations to the company, how it should act, how it would really gain the job, how to lobby the minister and other influential officials at the Ministry of Defence. However, as I said, the procedures will show the credibility of these documents and the responsibility of those who have written this documentation and have given these instructions in essence. The only thing I can say is that it is obvious that the process of purchasing armored 8x8 has taken place in a completely different way - it was a public tender, international, transparent and I still stand for this to be the most transparent public contract so far. And of course all this writing and all this documentation also makes me think why such pressure was triggered after the decision on choice was issued, namely Rotis regarding Patricia 8x8. Because it actually shows this documentation, a letter of intent that was concluded that everything here was actually ready for this 8x8 business to get Systemic technique. I must say that this documentation is also based on this documentation, and it also follows from other documentation that they do not hold, for example, the statement of the Chairman of the Viator&Vector administration, which he placed under arrest before the commission of inquiry that he had nothing to do with these transactions. We can understand from this documentation that he has had direct contact with some individuals. We can also understand from the documentation who had it all personally. I can't imagine one CEO going to the Department of Defense officials and there's an hour there, I don't know what he can do - probably didn't drink coffee. So, I have to say, I was very surprised. However, I must say that I am pleased that this documentation came on the day, because we can understand how the procedures for the purchase of vehicles 6x6, there was one contract concluded in 1998 and then another 25 annexes. That tells us what kind of business it's been doing. While tendering 8x8 for the 8x8 Armours Contract is clear, 278 million euro, 135 armoured with different configurations and 25 in the basic version. What worries me is that this matter is now being exploited perhaps even in pre-election time. We need to know that we need these armored 8x8s in order to fulfil the commitments made by the previous government, because we have entered into NATO's relationship in another coalition and this is about meeting these obligations. This is not a decision made by the Minister of Defence, not armored 6x6, not armored 8x8, but all of these are decisions made by the National Assembly in the documents, in the programmes, in the resolutions. I think it is right that now all these calls for more than a million euros for international calls go differently, so I think, through the Agency, the European Defence Agency, that this will achieve greater transparency. So that I can see that a big step has been taken towards greater transparency in the purchase of military equipment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Squeakl has come forward with a procedural proposal. But please, proposal, not controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u83	I'd like to ask if we can find out how the Minister of Defense knows, given that it's a record. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u84	Mr. Squeakl, procedural proposal, not debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u85	My procedural proposal is to determine in the services of the National Assembly who gave the Minister of Defence the non-existent magnetograms of witnesses' hearings?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u86	Thank you. Ms Darja Lovtijar Bebler will now raise a question for the Home Affairs and Justice Ministers. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, to the decision of Mr Barage's investigating judge not to order a house inquiry in Penko's case, you responded to the press conference by saying: "It is extremely unusual and controversial that such an important measure, where there is no possibility of appeal, is decided by a judge who is Penk's personal friend and is not the problem that they have worked together. The problem is that you guys go on vacations and trips together in private." This morning, at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice, Mr Minister, you argued that the investigating judge, Andrej Baraga, should be excluded from this decision because Mr Penko and Mr Baraga were well aware of each other. What do you say, Mr. Secretary? That you doubt the impartiality of the specific decision of the investigating judge? That you disagree with the decision? That you were expecting a different decision? Are you perhaps communicating something specific to other judges who, in possible or probable future cases like Penko, would otherwise decide, perhaps as they would have imagined, that you would expect of them? Dear Minister of Justice Dr. Sturm, you too have responded to Mr Barage's decision of the investigating judge, graciously said, for the Minister of Justice, it is very unusual, very controversial and, in my firm opinion, unacceptable. You considered that such a decision by the judge meant that prosecutors, judges or officials could also meet in a future public or in a hidden place with participants in criminal investigations and that such a meeting could not be the reason for the investigations of apartments or cars. Are you sure that such an attitude cannot be interpreted as a warning, a warning, or simply an instruction to judges as to how to decide in a future case or in a similar case? I submit that in both cases, it is an unacceptable pressure on the Court's future decisions and on the illegal involvement of the representative of the executive branch in the work of the judiciary, or whether you feel otherwise and have other arguments at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Storm, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. You've expressed your opinion that I have made a controversial comment on the judge's decision. Let me just say that I didn't do it. You, like some other media, of course, misquoted my statement I made last week on Saturday. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] that the decision of the court must be respected, and that decision was respected, because the authorities, the police and the prosecution immediately respected the decision of the judge and the decision was implemented and thus respected. [[..]] In this case, it is a very special decision, because it is very rare in court decisions that a judicial decision is immediately final, legally binding, without appeal, without the possibility of recourse to legal remedies and in this regard is one and the case is closed. Such cases are very rare. Surely we will all agree that matters that are not concluded are not appropriate to be commented, of course none of the representatives of the other branches of government can comment. However, I cannot help but remind myself that there were also some Members and Members of Parliament, including you, a distinguished Member, who commented on a decision of the Court, which was then subject to appeal, a different decision was taken in the complaint and, of course, your comment, when you enthusiastically made the original decision, was a pressure on the court's decision. The same is true today. At a meeting of the committee, which also discussed the matter, one of the Members present said peacefully, "this matter is not disputed, it is not illegal," although it is still an open matter, which the court will have to rule on. And so in this case, there is obvious pressure from the legislative branch of power, one of the politicians, on the judiciary. I didn't do it myself. I refuse. All I did was explain what this court decision in this case, which is final and closed, means. Because I also came from the fact that many people don't know that it's necessary to get a search warrant for a car. A car investigation cannot be carried out if the judge does not issue a house investigation warrant to investigate the apartment. And in this case, it was only about whether the judge would issue a warrant to investigate the apartment, which would allow for both a check of the apartment and a car, which many had the opportunity to see on video when they saw how carefully this car was sealed. It was just an explanation. I have not in any case defined myself to a judicial decision, except that it must be respected. I didn't say it was bad, I didn't say it was good, I didn't say it was legal, I didn't say it was legal. I didn't say anything about the content of the decision. All I did was explain what it meant. You've shown this in part, but you've left out one word, and that's very important, the word "probably" is missing. I said that this decision probably means what you've already quoted. Therefore, here again, to conclude that, as Minister of Justice, I absolutely support and am also bound to respect the independent decision-making of the judiciary. And if anyone misinterprets my statement as an intervention in the independence of the judiciary, I strongly oppose it, and in this way I also disavow such interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, Madam Member, for the question you have asked me. As long as I have time left, I'll try to answer or I'll get my five minutes. Thank you. I would like to make it very clear that the statement I made regarding the decision of the investigating judge did not in any case affect I will finish and I will wait for an additional question. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I expected that, in this order, I also asked that the Minister of the Interior respond first. We know that most of the readings also flew on his statements, but well, they changed the order. That probably wasn't the case. Yes, Mr Justice Minister, that's the problem, because you're commenting on what that decision means or probably means. And there's a conflict here. Otherwise, yes, Mr. Secretary of the Interior, look. The Supreme Court said as follows in the record of the position on the statements made by Minister Dragutin Mate in relation to the Penko case, Zidar: "It only discredits the judge's decision by which the Minister is not satisfied," said the College of the President of the Supreme Court. At the same time, the College points out that the statements made by Minister Matei are based on the assurances of Judge Andrej Barage on the imprecise indications of the circumstances which would raise doubts about the impartiality of the judge. Then the trial board. There are "anxious," so I read, "because of the gravity of the officials of the executive branch after influencing the decisions of the judges in specific matters and of commenting on their work when they are not satisfied with it. It is an inappropriate and unacceptable act, as it means disregarding the constitutional principles of the independence of the judiciary and the division of power, which are the foundation of a rule of law and a democratic state." Then the Ombudsman says, "It is unacceptable for the executive branch to comment on the decisions of the judiciary." All those listed obviously have no idea when it is an unacceptable political pressure on the judiciary, which is of course very interesting. And I would, however, ask the Minister of the Interior to tell you whether all of these people really have no idea when criticising such a statement on your part on a particular matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for this supplementary question. I would, of course, make it very clear that the statement I made regarding the procedures led by the police is in a particular case. At no time did I talk about not agreeing with the judge's decision. Not a moment, not a word. However, I have said that it would be right for persons who know each other to be excluded from such delicate issues of economic crime, potential corruption, and thus to be totally free of any suspicion on any side. But this is a matter which, as the Minister of Justice has already said, is one of the few that is final. The decision of the investigating judge shall be final, legal and inviolable. No police, no prosecutor can complain about this decision and the police have respected this decision, it is not that I am satisfied or dissatisfied with this decision, I have not read it, nor do I have the documents available to the police which have given them the powers that it is and the permission to use special investigation methods so that I cannot speak or it is right or wrong. It would be very interesting, though, if you read the article as you said and read it. Now I don't know if that's true, but from the article you quoted, you read that the Supreme Court asked the judge about the cases. Perhaps if the decision is made, it would be right to ask the other party to tell their part of the story and then to be more easily defined, but of course their decision is and they can do what they want. However, I must make it clear that I did not discredit the judge or his decision, that he acted in accordance with the law, which I specifically stressed at the press conference, but I, as a minister and as a politician, feel that it might be good, however, that judges, who have very often ruled themselves in similar cases, did not want to decide and handed the matter over to another colleague who could have made a different decision. He probably made the same decision, but the police respected or would respect the decision in the future, any decision of any investigating judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u97	Well, it is clear that more than a long time you are responding, you are more entangled and that you are giving some such words than possibly, perhaps even such things, but that the rule of law in which the principle of the division of power should apply is unacceptable, that the individual minister, in his statements, assesses the decision of the judges and thus exerts political pressure on them to make good decisions. This is based on arguments as to who is dating and who is friends with whom. It is obvious that some ministers do not see any dispute in the intervention of the executive branch of the judiciary in this regard, but they feel that it is disputed if one is free to move or associate with another, which, as a fundamental human right, is guaranteed by both our Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights, the International Covenant on Political Rights and so on and so on. In short, Minister Šturm, your quoted statement cannot be interpreted in any other way than that such a meeting must already be the reason for the investigation of apartments or cars. Do you realize what you actually said; in the morning, you explained to the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice that, according to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, it is necessary to ensure not only a fair trial but also a fair trial. But with such statements, you certainly do not contribute to the appearance of impartiality of the trial. Thank God that the judges themselves are obviously the most contributing to the actual impartiality of the trial and to their dignity. I am sure that the debate on the response of both ministers is not only useful and necessary, but, of course, also necessary. It is not permissible for ministers to actively participate in denying the reputation of the judiciary and to raise doubts about its impartiality, so I propose that a discussion be held on the response of both ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u98	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Ambassador Beblereva that the National Assembly, if possible at the next meeting, will hold a discussion on the response of the two ministers, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of the vote on Friday, 11 July 2008. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be asked a question by Mrs Maria Possonec. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u99	Nice greetings to all present! Not only to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Iztok Jarc, but to the Minister of Health of Zofija Mazej Kukovič and to the Minister for Environment and Space Janez Podobnik, I am asking this question. In fact, a year ago, I asked a similar question to the Minister of Agriculture, and he said that he was not the right address for it. So now I'm asking: Do these ministers today view the prevalence of ambrosia differently? Have they noted any positive effects with regard to ambrosia suppression? And have they now taken an organised approach to a more effective fight against the spread of ambrosia, especially in the North-East Slovenia area, where only these are the most? I also wonder if we already have a legal basis for mandatory control of ambrosia. Thank you very much for any answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u101	Thank you for that question. I will give a partial reply, and once again I would like to say that this area does not fall within the jurisdiction of our department, but we have done what was said last year and we are essentially already in the same month, saying 25 July 2007, to a colleague who is not here today, the Minister of the Environment and Space Initiative, to explore the possibility of action on this plant and also to say that we can involve ourselves, in particular, in determining measures to how this plant can be effectively removed. Although a standard recommendation for actions within the framework of the European Plant Protection Organisation has also been made in the phytosanitary field in cooperation with our country this year, in order to eradicate and, where this is no longer possible, to contain the spread of this plant, various measures may be prescribed and, as I have said, we are willing to cooperate in this regard. As far as I know, I expect you to receive a written reply from your colleague Sponik, framework legislation has been adopted in this area, but there are no implementing rules yet, but they are in preparation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I had previously forgotten to say or did not have before me that the Member had asked the question to the three ministers. One that is absent today is why I ask the Minister of Health to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I thank Ambassador Possonec for this question, because this shows that inter-ministerial policies are still needed when it comes to health. And also in this case, last year, at the initiative of the Ministry of Agriculture, we responded and also trained some experts from the Institute for Health Protection, in this field, in the field of ambrosia and in the management of allergy to ambrosia. Because it is known that it causes allergy, which has unpleasant consequences both in finding, coughing and so on and for that reason we have also done a project within the Department of Health Protection Murska Sobota, which, of course, talks about how to protect ourselves, as regards health, and on the other hand, we know that ambrosia needs to be removed in a kind way. For this removal it is important that it happens early enough. I would even suggest that this may be an opportunity for public works, because this ambrosia appears in places that are slightly abandoned, so where there is no master, if I say where some construction sites have taken place, along highways and so on and it is important to prevent this from happening further. And if we are aware that this has an impact on our health, then I would really appeal from this city that this is also possible to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Would you like Mrs. Possons?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u105	Thank you very much for your answers. I believe that this question is one of the few issues that have had consequences, even because otherwise these issues are actually only going to be left empty many times, so I am pleased that this has happened. I would like to point out that it is the country that is the bad host, because the most ambrosia along the roads and in the ditches is the ambrosia because private people care about their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The Transport Minister will be asked a question by Mr Aloise Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, ministers! Various problems plague us in this country. And that's why we ask different questions. I will ask a question to which I think the Minister of Transport has already answered once, even then we have been able to read something in the media about some targeted solutions, but some concrete solutions to the problem have not yet occurred. However, it is one of the unpleasant things that goes on at a time when you, of course, were not yet Minister and in some way you have inherited it in an unappreciative way. In 2003, the municipalities refused to pay under the law for maintenance of railway crossings on local roads, crossing local roads with railways. These proceedings went to trial, and, I don't know, after four or five years, the proceedings are closed. The municipalities have lost their legal disputes, despite the assurances made by your predecessors that this matter will be resolved, some municipalities have made executions, and we are now in a situation where some municipalities have been executed for lost actions, so the budget has taken substantial funds that have gone to the giro account of the Railway Agency, if it is called, mainly to this item. While there were no executions in some other congregations. I think it's a matter of some original inequality before the law. And if there was no inequality, I wouldn't ask that question either, because I know that someone did not respect the law, that the state did the right thing, that it did it through the courts and that it did it. Well, that's quite clear to me, but as I said before, it's not clear to me that it's going to hold on to one thing and then it's going to be done with the other. And since many Slovenian municipalities are experiencing frequent storms, severe damage is occurring, of course every euro is very important. I ask you, Mr Minister, how are you going to solve this matter definitively so that if I say so, the wolf will be full and the goat will be whole? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much also to the Member for the question. In the past, the Minister of Finance, including the Minister of Transport, my predecessors, the Minister of Local Self-Government and also the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, were asked to keep matters in the field of Western claims, maintain level crossings between the railway and the road, of course, in favour of the municipalities. I agree with you, and in some ways you have indicated that this problem has been resolved for a very, very long time and that it has a very long beard. There have been several proposals for solutions, but at one of the meetings with the Minister of Finance, we have found one proposal for a solution that we are now trying to implement. However, the proposal is the following, which really relieves municipalities of payment of claims, but at the same time imposes an obligation on them to invest financial resources at the same level in their municipality for the maintenance and modernisation of public railway infrastructure. In doing so, as long as the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is allowed, it will ensure for the same purpose an additional amount from this budget up to the same level. Therefore, the double amount of claims is intended for the maintenance and modernisation of public railway infrastructure in the same municipality. I am talking about the proposal because Slovenian railways have to waive their claims. In other words, they have to write them off, otherwise it doesn't work. However, which is not yet definitively stipulated for such a proposal for a solution to inequality before the law, of course it is difficult to say so, especially because claims were paid to Slovenian railways. These are the operators of public rail infrastructure and, under the Regulation on the allocation of train paths and public rail usage, all revenues of the operator with potential profits are intended to maintain public rail infrastructure. The only question is if this happens in that same congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pečan will ask the Minister of Education and Sport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all who hoped to stay in the hall, since today is such a day. I would like to ask Mr Milan Beast, Minister for Education and Sport, about the construction of a new secondary technical school in Cyprus. The planning has been over 12 years old and the situation in the existing building on Istrian Street has certainly not improved, but only worsened. With the fact that the enrolment of young people in vocational schools is catastrophically low, due to the complete lack of planned targeting of young people into vocational and secondary education, we are further dissuading them from entering engineering and metal schools and, of course, other technical schools, due to impossible spatial conditions and obsolete equipment, which cannot even be placed in existing premises. In Koper was chosen to build a new building at Koper Central Technical School, an area on the former land of the Tomos Koper factory, along the Šmarska road. And then finally, in the 2008 budget and in the development programme plan, a decision was taken on the implementation of the investment. In the 2008 budget development programme plan, EUR 13 million and almost EUR 500 000 were initially foreseen for this purpose for the leasing of the contract. The development plans for the same budget amounted to €572,000 to €12.876.000 and €12 000 to €12 million to be added to this year's rebalancing. It is interesting that the amount fell at each budget change, but for 2008 the funds even increased from EUR 287 000 to almost EUR 419 000. In April of last year, Mr Minister, you came to lay the foundation stone and it was said that the school was to be completed in the year and a half by the end of this August, that is until the beginning of this year's school year. Now more than half of the estimated time has passed, and apart from the preparatory works by demolition of old facilities at the site, nothing has happened. Mr. Minister, what has happened that the work of building this necessary new building has really stopped completely? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u113	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you also for your question, honourable Member. More or less, you have provided key information on the issue, so I do not need to repeat this in the first place. It is true, as you mentioned, in 2006, 30 May, that we also signed a contract with, this should be added to what you said, with the New Ljubljana Bank leasing d.o.o. [[..]] In the contract he undertook to carry out all the procedures necessary to get to the new school, from the architectural competition for spatial arrangements for the facility, the conceptual design, changes to the plan so far, then to obtain a building permit for the demolition of this facility, to establish the ground as well as building permit for the new construction. Well, the latter got stuck in consensus-building, so they obviously had some problems. However, the contract was perfectly clear, by the end of August we should have the facility and we have repeatedly called on the landlord of NLB Leasing d.o.o. to explain to us why all procedures are so slow that will probably not lead to the expected deadline to Primotransmission of the facility. However, the contractual partner has not yet identified itself on our calls. We will, of course, have to act in accordance with the Treaty and the legislation in August, and you know what this means. But it doesn't solve the problem itself. The pens that follow won't build the schools. Of course, we need to make sure that the secondary technical school actually comes as soon as possible to this new space, because in fact the premises are now in the same state as you described them. We can't say what you're saying is that it affects a smaller entry because the data shows no. This year we have 549 students enrolled, he was enrolled last year, say in the previous school year, 501 students. Although we would like to see even more enrollment, other factors also affect, as you said, the under-involvement of students in vocational and vocational education, from demographic to some others, which is not the subject of this issue. In short, we will, of course, have to wait until the end of August for a definitive answer to this question, when we have to act or agree on how otherwise or whether to comply with the obligations arising from the Treaty. I wish we could get to this new school as soon as possible. Our conduct in the future will depend on how to get there as soon as possible. However, I am afraid that we will not be able to avoid certain measures resulting from legislation and the existing treaty.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Would you like another answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u115	The Minister has already partly answered the question, but it is not clear that it is impossible that - because if we turn the timetable back, such an object is impossible to build in a shorter time than in a year and a half, that is a fact. It is said that after six months, from last April on, when construction was actually supposed to start, or, say, a few months after obtaining a building permit for demolitions and removing old buildings, however, it would be necessary for your investment department at the Ministry of Education and Sport to do something. As a result, as soon as the time for handover was reduced to a year from the time set, it was logical that things would not be possible in the given time frame. And you shouldn't call NLB Leasing d.o.o. to answer what's going on, but you should simply threaten, in my humble opinion, that things can't go any further. And if they don't make a deadline, I don't know what, a month, to give some very concrete answers, the ministry will have to break up the contract and go into a new tender, because there is no other way. Look, you said you had almost 50 more students this year than you did last year. But what will be their knowledge? No modern technical devices, no machine tools, computer-controlled tools and so on will be able to use them in practical training because there is no easy space for these devices. I think it's leading to an inadequacy lesson. And thank God the economy won't be happy with students who will finish school. Please, Minister, what do you intend to do now as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u117	Thank you for that additional question. Look, there's no way to blame the Ministry. When we signed this contract, we shook hands, gave word, the contract was not imposed on our side, not on the contractor, but on the lenders, but was the product of a joint agreement and negotiation. [[...]] And now, anyway, it's a contract. They subsequently demanded further work, recognition of additional works and so on, which we rejected. We believed that the contract that was signed was scheduled to hold, and we were waiting for the lender to complete it. If he's having trouble with the performers now, that's his business. And we - before we can't do it as in August - will terminate the contract and, I don't know, we will probably also cash a guarantee, which is also included in the contract. In short, we're going to study this legally. Once again, the fault on our side cannot be, and we have demanded several times, as I have already said in the first part of the answer, to explain where the problems are, why things are going so slowly, but we have not received an answer yet. We would like the matter to be transparent, we will act in accordance with the rules and also with the treaty, as we have signed. But it's really my wish to get to this new school as soon as possible. This school is urgently needed, in particular the economy needs it. With great expectation, we signed this treaty, and we laid the foundation stone, and then what happened happened happened. Once again, I would like to emphasise - the school space is no place - if any - the school space will not be for any additional blackmail when a major contract is signed, such as this one.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will ask the Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u119	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. As foretold, I would like to ask the Minister of the Magnificent Economy. Andrei Vissiak. Dear Minister, this year the government has sold shares in 42 companies. In 41 cases via the Slovenian Compensation Society and, of course, through the Capital Society, there are also cases where the government sold its shares. Among the most insidious is certainly the sale of the state 55% stake in the Slovenian steel industry to the Russian owner for EUR 105 billion and the Korean steel producers are convinced that the country has cheated them for at least EUR 112 million. Well, slightly less sales were detected in the public, but at a value lower, but no less important in terms of how sales were made. In fact, I would like to ask a question about the sale of shares of FMR from Idria, which damaged FMR shareholders and the country for EUR 944,200, according to our assessment. In fact, 2003 was the then management when it considered that the shares of FMR were worth five times the book value. In December 2007, the capital company sold shares for less than two thirds of the book value. So, an extremely large difference, an eight-fold difference, and before that, the Supervisory Board ordered Kad, to sign the company, to sell shares that would somehow prove the maximum value of the shares. However, leadership When this was not respected, although it also received a direct offer to purchase FMR shares, which was significantly higher than that followed by Kad sold shares. We can talk about the fact that, in fact, in this case, there is also some kind of case of corruption. And that's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, How will you take action to ensure that the capital board will in future respect the decisions of its supervisory board and sell capital investments transparently and with a view to maximising the selling price, not in the way that the shares sold to FMR in December of last year when the capital company's management sold shares at a lower price than that explicitly offered to the then president of the administration? Thus, the State was injured for at least EUR 472,000 and together with shareholders [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] FMR holding for 944,000 euros? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u121	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. However, firstly, let me say that we have the existing decisions of the Government by which the Government has designated ministries and government services responsible for the management of individual capital investments and for the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in Kad is the competent Ministry of Finance. So, the honourable Vice-President, if I wish to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this question is addressed to the wrong address, but I have already tried to report this at the previous meeting to Mr Saš Pečet and I have been unsuccessful, and not least have disqualifications of me not to answer, so I have also obtained a report from Kada on this particular matter which I will read. Therefore, there are completely unfounded claims and calculations, since the offer referred to in the question, that is to say, that an offer has come, has neither been submitted in writing nor orally to the Capital Society or the President of the Management Board. This is said to be unrealistic information based on the position of the Capital Society. The capital company shall, when selling its investments, assess and take into account all relevant circumstances which may affect the pursuit of its objectives, as all operators, also closely monitor market conditions and decide on the basis of market analyses for appropriate time and method of sale. As far as FMR is concerned, sales activities started in October 2006 with the last call for tenders, three tenderers responded and the process was closed due to the non-compliance of tenders. Similarly, in March 2007, where two tenders were submitted again in March 2007, the procedure was also closed by an invitation to tender improvement, as the tenders were not improved. This is the equity share, this is very important where the Capital Company did not have and could not exercise management entitlements, so it was not able to manage the company, but it had a share, as 55.2% owned by an authorised company, the Capital Company owned only 19.32% of the equity. July 2007 is a capital company with Vipo Holdingig, d.d. signed an agreement on the joint sale of FMR shares, an offer was received from Hidrie Fin, d.o.o. in November. and after successful negotiations, they also decided to sell. It is said that the Capital Company has acted in full compliance with the Government's recommendations, because if, after a few tenders, and after a few attempts, it fails to show up or find a suitable buyer, it can also do so directly by negotiating. The sales price reached was 99% higher than the most favourable price or the highest bidder in public procurement and was within the expected price framework. This goes well, the Capital Society completely rejects your findings, for the first time, that it was faced with a higher price than that which it was able to achieve after negotiations with Hidria Fin, d.o.o.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Please also ask for an additional answer, although you would take into account what Mr Minister said, given that the question has been addressed to him and that he has actually now read the report by Kad.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u123	Thank you for this, I will take this into account, but it is an important minister in the government who will certainly pass on this question if he cannot answer it, competent in this government, but given what they have written to the Minister, I can see that this is a major fraud. In fact, I believe more and more these allegations that corruption was involved in this case. In particular, see, in autumn 2006 a specific application was made for the purchase of FMR and although it was the best, this tender was not accepted at all in the invitation to tender. The fact is that the shares were sold for a total of two-thirds of the book value of the shares, although even in 2003 the lead company Kadam claimed that the price was 5 times the book value for them, and you are talking about the success of the negotiations and sold Hidria FIN as the best bidder of this stock. So, it's an eclectic misdirection of the public, and that information they wrote to you doesn't hold. Even about a month before the capital company’s management negotiated for the sale of these shares, the capital company’s president had a specific price and offer that was significantly higher than Hidria FIN proposed. And this offer has also been specifically transmitted, in writing, so that the data written to you are really inaccurate and I suggest that the initiation of procedures in the Government be further investigated and examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u125	Yes, Your Honor. It is perfectly normal for you to have a different position here than the official messages of the Capital Society. Once again, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am probably not even allowed to answer the question of Members which do not tangemise my work area. However, even though no one would have the impression of avoiding the answers to the question, here I have the written views of the Capital Society, written statements which are, of course, plausible. And once again, neither orally nor in writing to the Capital Society or to its President, because his name is mentioned in your question, there is no better offer or any offer at all. All tenders received earlier, this is said to have been lower in 2006 and 2007 when tenders were collected, since the sale price achieved with Hidria FIN was 59% higher than the most favourable price received. So it's said, with Hidria FIN, the price was 59% higher. You also mentioned bookkeeping values. You know that, nowhere and never, bookkeeping values should be taken as a basis, but valuable prices based on valuation records for these qualified evaluators. For we ourselves know that in the books of companies certain real estates, investments are valued in one way or another, these are some accounting categories which, of course, may not have much in common with the real value of certain elements and property. Therefore, the book value was never, nor was there any basis for determining, when determining the sales decisions, but the market price shown for a given share. Even at the book value of an undertaking, it is very important how much is sold, at the same book value. If the management share of the company is sold, it is worth much more than 19% of the share where there are no management rights at the same book value. This is very clear evidence that the book value is actually very far away and that those key prices are valued and tested on the market. And once again, I categorically reject this information that I have to deal with any irregularity or even crime, as you mention. However, I accept your initiative and we will further examine the matter and also provide appropriate evidence and documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u127	Thank you. Notwithstanding the expiry of the term of office of the National Assembly and the Government, I would, however, make a procedural suggestion to hold a debate on this answer in the National Assembly, because it is a diametrical opposite of the information I have available as a Member, compared to the information prepared by Kad or by someone else to the Minister. However, it is indeed a matter of addressing a very important issue; it is a matter of transparency in the sale of state shares in companies. And this is one of those cases that might still be more thoroughly processed than some major sales, where we know that there is a much greater interest and it is much harder to get to the truth and to get to accurate data. In this case, however, I think it would be easier to determine whether it was even a possibility of corruption in this case or whether it was a transparent procedure. This is an important issue, particularly in order to sell Slovenian shares in companies in a transparent way in the future and to provide, in particular, the funds needed either for the implementation of public financial needs or for the performance of other tasks that companies themselves need when they receive an appropriate partner. I therefore propose that we vote on the Government's response to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u128	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Janko Weber to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to his question, if possible, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of the vote on Friday, 11 July 2008. The Minister of Health will ask Mr Samo Bevk a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has long experienced certain problems faced by insured persons in the quality exercise of their dental rights. So she chose her dentist or, rather, she could choose only 79 adults and young people. The reason for such a low percentage is the conduct of individual health homes and individuals with concessions that are not willing to accept insured persons, even though they have not yet reached the prescribed number of designated persons. According to the Institute’s exhibits, the average number of persons identified in the dental field is moving on one dental team without specialists between 1,563 and 2.377 and in the youth dental system between 354 and 2,584 people. At the same time, there are a number of teams that do not reach a legal level or are even below the defined number level and are not prepared to receive individuals for treatment. Such unacceptable and illegal behaviour is contrary to the rules and contractual obligations of inequalities between insured persons in access to health services. Those insured who have managed to register with such dentists have better conditions and opportunities to access dental services, while others are unduly excluded from the system. My first question to the Minister of Health, Mrs. Zofija Mazej Kukovic, is: Does she support the proposal to introduce a new method of financing dental care, whereby the payment of a personal dentist will depend on the number and age structure of insured persons, since the extent of services that a dentist could charge to a health insurance company would depend on the number of insured persons he has defined? That way, those who have 2,000 patients would be better paid than those who have 400 or less than I said before. However, the next question regarding dental care concerns on-call dental work between weekends and holidays, especially in the afternoon and during night hours, which is very poorly arranged. If we look at the exhibition of the Slovenian Health Institute in Ljubljana or throughout the country, then we see that this is arranged only at the level of the Municipality of Ljubljana, and these services are paid by the Municipality of Ljubljana. In the area of Ljubljana exhibition, it is said, and in other municipalities from Idrija to Hrastnik from Kamnik to Kočev, there are no or no such services on Saturday mornings and on Sunday mornings. That's why I'm interested. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u131	Thank you very much for the question, Member. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dentistry is obviously a topic that is very often debated in various radio, television, including many media outlets, where opinions are usually broken between a health insurance company, users, a medical clinic and so on. We all definitely want better accessibility in this area. And so now, over this period, we have made some possible measures, and to list them: an important measure is certainly also evident from the medical service law, where replacements are also prescribed, the concessionaires' relationship is prescribed, whether it is doctors, dentists, on-call workers, emergency medical care, and above all, it is important that this service be equalized in such a way that the patient does not know who it came to at the end of the day, whether it has reached the concessionaire or has reached someone who is employed in a healthcare home. Let the service be of good quality both at the right time. So we did it at the regulatory level. But the question is also the following: financial resources. We have increased our funding in the 2008 agreement and will be evenly distributed between the municipalities with or to the needs and with or with the network. The municipalities will decide whether to give these additional funds to concessionaires or partially keep them in the healthcare home, or whether it will be a combination. In short, it's the mayor's decision. The next issue in this area is that the supervision exercised by the insurance company today is financial supervision, as well as by the Medical Chamber, professional supervision, and not to say administrative supervision from the Ministry of Health, is not completed with corrective measures and with clear deadlines for eliminating possible derogations. The control itself and just reporting on it is insufficient, it is necessary to act. And also information that there are extremely limited entries to individual dentists, we also need to go through this. We must move on, even in part in the future, by balancing this capital, which is extremely different, and in this way and by means of legal measures, also create more equitable access. However, that, as I say, this is a subject that is so seemingly forever open, so we have also taken the resolution very seriously, and we have also set guidelines there, and it is particularly important in these guidelines that we have a clear network this time, that we have a clear picture of who is, and that at least now, in principle, to set up a network of new resources, means to go with additional funding on these areas. I was expecting a kind of broader question of yours, now I don't know if I had the wrong information, well, I'm not going to spread the answer to those areas, maybe later, but to the dental field - this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u133	Thank you for your reply to the Minister of Health. But I would like a more exact answer, namely: Are you committed to changing the system of financing dental services, where we would no longer have this point system than now when a doctor can have between 400 patients and 2,500 patients, but that one of the main criteria would be the number of persons identified and the age structure? In addition, I would like to ask this question: How do you comment on the November 2007 survey of the Slovenian Consumers Association, because 50 % of respondents from all Slovenia have had to pay for dental services despite regulated compulsory and supplementary health insurance, and 28% have not received an account after this survey for the services provided, which is illegal. What is your comment on this survey? The data are from the website of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. In the end, I must apologize for asking a much broader question, and I wanted to ask about accessibility in other health areas and investment in public health institutions, but this would far exceed the time allowed at our disposal, and we will also consider the Law on Investments in Public Health Institutions, which is the founder of the Republic of Slovenia, tomorrow, and I will take this opportunity to discuss, question and debate on the subject. For the answer to the second part of the question, however, thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u135	We must certainly direct the funding system together with the insurance company, and if we listen to Mr Tot, who speaks in milligrams, how much sealing and how much of that and how much of that, then a comment on the second part, when you say what the survey is and what the results are, you would get your epilogue quickly. It is difficult to comment in this detail and in mind, including the question of what sample was taken in this survey, which population was taken, even because we know that in the younger or those who are now 25 or so, the situation is quite different, even because of prevention. And that is why we are particularly committed to the resolution on the intensive introduction of prevention, because, of course, just to see how many seals we will give and what money we will give for, is a solution that is not optimal. So, start and continue, upgrade what is necessary, from kindergartens and primary schools. And that's why I'm saying the question of what sample was taken for this survey. That's why I can't comment. But when I take a closer look at it, we can give you a more detailed answer. I hope I have a little discount because you have also prepared a second-hand question, investment, and you will get these answers tomorrow. I'm sorry, I haven't heard from this poll, and I don't have a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence will be asked a question by Mr Mag. Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u137	Mr Vice-President, distinguished citizens and citizens, Members and Members of Parliament, ministers of the Government! In the part of the 8x8 Commission of Inquiry set up by the National Assembly last year, we cannot remove the suspicion that the business of purchasing medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8 was politically agreed, run intransparency and that it was by its very nature uneconomic. The National Assembly notes that there is a presence of clientism and corruption in this business. This would be recorded in the Commission's report if the ruling coalition allowed the work to be completed. Therefore, the National Assembly could propose to the Government to draft amendments and to supplement the law on the revision of public procurement procedures in such a way as to establish legal protection for some EUR 300, 400 million of classified contracts in your ministries, the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs, with the possibility of appeal to the State Audit Commission. In addition, the National Assembly would expect that the State authorities, particularly the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, will, on the basis of all the material collected, including, I hope, by the National Assembly of the documents transmitted, in particular the preparatory investigations carried out, that the Supreme State Prosecutor, in cooperation with the Finnish investigating authorities, will nevertheless carry out legal procedures. That would be suggestions. And there's something else that, of course, I can't talk about in public. However, and this is good, due to the initiative of the Finnish investigative authorities, procedures, legal procedures, forecasting procedures on the suspicion of corruption, clienteleism is already under way. I therefore wonder: How do Slovenian police and MORSA intelligence authorities, both in Slovenia and abroad, assess the involvement of law enforcement authorities and law enforcement authorities in the purchase of 8x8 armoured personnel? I specifically ask the Minister of Matthew to provide further information on the content of the signed agreement and on the cooperation timetables. This Agreement is the first agreement signed by Slovenia. Is this because it is necessary to protect the evidence obtained in the proceeding? I ask Minister Erjavac, according to the media: What, if any of the MORS intelligence authorities that you have cited have been invited by the media to carry out appropriate procedures? What are these procedures, how and when will they be implemented? I ask for precise answers in the interest of the Slovenian public.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of Defense, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u139	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. A special greeting to the honourable Member who asked me a question. Let me say that I have ordered the Department of Defense Intelligence to verify all procedures relating to 8x8 and all persons who had full powers in the Ministry of Defence in relation to this business. The procedure in the Republic of Slovenia is followed by all procedures leading and directing the District State Prosecutor's Office, so it would be very unfair and very inconsistent with our legislation if the Minister of Defence were involved in any of these proceedings. Especially because, as I said, he directs them and runs the state's attorney's office. That is why, of course, I cannot help but comment, to say anything new about this because I have no powers. However, I would like to say that, by the judiciary, whether it is civil or criminal proceedings, it has not yet been established that there is any suspicion of corruption or any other irregularity. As far as civil proceedings are concerned, I must say that so far the Ministry of Defence has received all these proceedings before the judicial authorities. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, I must say that they are not yet ongoing, but there are some investigative actions; that is, a game for the predictive phase, so that I cannot comment on what is happening in Finland at all. I expect the Finnish investigative authorities to complete these procedures as soon as possible, because I think that this is the only way to see if there has actually been any irregularities in this business. However, I must reiterate that this business has certainly been most transparent so far, and it does not hold that it is economically harmful, since we have a new factory in Šostjan, where there are a lot of workers who make up and make these armoured personnel. I can also say that the first such armor from Slovenian production will also come from these tapes in September. Thus, I cannot agree with this assessment made by the Commission of Inquiry, which is part of the legislative branch of government - it is not the judiciary. And I think that the final judgment on what this deal was will have to be answered by the judicial branch of power.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the question, Member. Of course, I would like to mention first what you have mentioned, by the way, that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - I think you mentioned - we are implementing calls that are confidential and so on, and that with the changes that you would propose - if you would - change everything. I'm going to say that you had a lot of options to change these regulations, but you drove most of the calls at the Ministry of the Interior as confidential, you kept the documents confidential. For the first time, I started to run public invitations for personal documents, for passports, for plates - for the first time to run public! All this you used to do under the table, with the negotiation and so on. But as for the specific case 8x8, of course it was, Commissioner. Absolutely, there are papers and evidence for everyone that you haven't been able to destroy. As far as case 8x8 is concerned, the matter is very clear. The point is that the Penal Code is the one that determines how things are done. The police started the investigation as soon as she got the information. The Slovenian police, the Finnish police, the Slovenian prosecutor's office and the Finnish prosecutor's office are taking part in this case. They work on the basis of the law, we also made the necessary arrangement, they had the first preparatory meeting in accordance with the law we have, and 16. 6. was the first such operational meeting. What were they doing at the operational meeting? You know, I don't know, and you're asking me this for nothing because I don't have jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u143	We had a typical response from the coalition's politicians, who are explaining their problems with problems in previous mandates. Let me tell both ministers that it was your responsibility to enable the European Union, during its Presidency, to conclude a directive on procurement of a confidential nature, which will also legalise so-called legal protection. You know well that, of course, before 1 May 2004, when we entered the European Union, we could not even put that in Slovenian legislation. First of all, with regard to the statement made by Minister Mate. I asked because you had so much to say about another incomplete or completed process. I also hear that for some other, apparently, procedures carried out in the previous term you have evidence. You are very operationally, obviously, engaged in police business, so of course I ask you again what you obviously know more than you want to tell the Slovenian public. This isn't about me, Mr. Mate. I have information that, of course, your investigators went to Finland, that there was another meeting and that they said nicely, "Nothing before September." We have this information. Because people see someone else at the airport than ours, in what they call "the party president." About Minister Erjavac. I wonder: Have you also checked those who did not have full powers? In fact, some Witnesses said that people without full powers were also involved in the work of Patricia. And of course, I am particularly interested in this; the criminal procedure against you has been initiated: has this criminal procedure already come across that someone at the Ministry of Defence would have secured any evidence from this mandate? Because obviously there's a story about who's got something in their hands. So, Mr. Minister, what are you going to do? Will they remove suspicions by the end of your term of office? These suspicions exist, the burden is upon you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u145	Thank you very much for this additional question. Just to clarify, I'm not dealing with the operational work and what I'm talking about I'm going to explain right now: it's about the tender documentation and how the procedures went. This documentation does not have the police, this documentation is at the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs, which I requested before we went to the new calls, which were for the first time public, so that you do not convert words and know exactly what I'm talking about. Now I'd like to focus on this current matter. The meetings, which were at the operational level between the police and the prosecutions, will, of course, continue, the Slovenian police are working and are participating in this first joint investigative action, which we are working with a foreign police, and you know exactly where the powers of the Minister of the Interior end with regard to the operational operations of the criminal police, you know! Of course, I believe, given the reactions that there have been different practices in some other mandates, I like to believe this very much, but in this mandate I don't have these data and I don't want them, the police are doing their job, I can't get them, I can't get a living thing and nothing is done on order. It is an operational matter, but it is concerned that some authorities, which are very vehemently state-owned, spoke of the fact that data on the suspicion of corruption had not been provided to the police since February and January in accordance with Article 145 of the Criminal Procedure Act. And when the police requested in writing that the Anti-Corruption Commission hand over these documents - if it has them - because it claims to have them - on May 26th, we received an answer that the bribery by the employees of Patria, which is being investigated by the Finnish security authority and mentioned in your letter, the Commission did not consider. So a government authority has just explained to the Slovenian public how everything exists, but at the same time it has had no paper or will not hand it over and has thereby impeded the investigations themselves, and this is of course a crime if it has done so. The police - what you wanted to know - will continue their work on this issue and everyone, if suspected of involvement in corruption is confirmed, will be persecuted in accordance with Slovenian law, regardless of their name, surname or any other affiliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Mag. Squeakle, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u147	I think that given that there is obviously not enough time left for Minister Erjavac, it is more than necessary to reply in accordance with Article 246(2). Mr Erjavec has yet to answer some important questions, particularly about the criminal procedure that has been initiated or the criminal complaint against him and, of course, whether those who have not had full powers are being examined. For it is that some without authority, in saying, "received for the affairs of Patria". The need for a discussion at the meeting of the National Assembly also stems from the replies of Minister Matei or his work. On the one hand, he says the police work, but he doesn't know what he's doing if he's working. He did not answer the question in which time frame we will discuss this. He did not mention the content of the first signed agreement between the Slovenian and Finnish investigative authorities. And obviously we need to learn more from the Finnish investigative authorities than any other. I agree that guidance should be provided by the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, and that would be the only right thing to do. But right now we have a major problem in the National Assembly that the National Assembly is also hampering the procedures carried out by the coalition to provide the Supreme Public Prosecutor with the documentation collected by the National Assembly. Above all, we are surprised that the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior, but above all, the Ministry of Defence has not been invited by the State Attorney's Office on documents 8x8, because the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office is asking us about these documents. So we have a very strange situation in this country. If we did not have a parliamentary commission of inquiry, these documents would obviously not be collected at all or the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office would start its investigation with some great delay. As I said, the National Assembly notes that there is customerism and corruption in this business. This would be recorded in the Commission's report if the ruling coalition did not prevent its conclusion. And of course that's what this is about. It is a fear of receiving a final report; it is also a fear of further testimony by Prime Minister Janez Janša, who should be confronted with some of the witness statements. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this at the next, perhaps quite extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, in particular on the fact that the National Assembly cannot remove the suspicion that there has been a direct or indirect link between the current and former arms trafficking actors and that we note that significant financial flows have been going through the state budget accounts at that time, and all of this is being hidden. The documents are collected, they're in the House of the National Assembly. If we hope, if you hope, if everything is legal, then let's discuss it. I hope that my procedural proposal will be adopted on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u148	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Milana M. Zvikla that, if possible, the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior to his question, if possible, on Friday, 11 July 2008. Mr Matjaž Han will ask the Minister of Public Administration and the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who is excusedly absent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable colleagues! During these days, we were able to read an article in the newspaper that indicates in some way the abuse of the work of students in the government. On many occasions, however, Minister Virant, we have listened to you in public as you have repeatedly highlighted and also praised measures to rationalise the work of the state administration. I'm afraid that's not the case. I got the impression that there are too many manipulations with different data, and in the end they can serve a variety of statistics that may be in favour of rationalisation in the state administration. Speaking of student work in the state administration, let me say that he works in the state administration of almost 900 students, half of whom are full-time students. At that time, you also called for an increase in student work due to the Presidency of the European Union. I may also agree with this in part. Dear Minister, I often hear you stressing the importance of the example of the most important public servants for others in society. Since you say this many times, I ask you today, you and Minister Cotmanovo: How do you comment on the rationalisation of the state administration through the abuse of student work? But to make it easier to comment and then not to advertise again, I ask you: Why does half of the students employed not work occasionally but full-time without a contract of employment? Why does the country support some form of social dumping through such employment? We know that this does not pay contributions, but taxes are significantly lower. How do you assess in some way that a country with such jobs contributes to the extension of the study, although I know that some students, some young people, somehow get rid of it because their parents can't pay for the study? Do you think it's acceptable that these people have been working for years and years, and they're not doing it during retirement? Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u150	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, in this mandate, we are working in the public administration to reduce the number of employees, but it is those employees who have always been considered untouchable. This is for workers for an indefinite period of time, which is not possible, which is very difficult or practically impossible to forgive, so we are constantly putting great pressure on all authorities to rationalise their organisation, modernise, set priorities, simplify procedures, abolish unnecessary procedures, demand as much as possible from people who are employed, and in this way we have achieved that the number of employees, i.e. those who are in a working relationship during the period, within the mandate of this Government, has been reduced by more than 350. And this is information that we have not obtained by means of any statistical manipulation, the number is measured in the same way at the beginning of the mandate and at the latest; I think the last condition is the 1st of June of this year. So it's not about changing the methodology, it's not about changing the statistics in the meantime, it's about starting to appear differently, or whatever. This is actually a reduction in the number of employees. However, we also have works in the state administration that are seasonal, which are of a technical and professional nature, for which it makes no sense to hire a person, not for a certain period of time, but for an indefinite period. And these works will always remain in the hands of occasional employees, including students. For example, the Agency for Agricultural Markets, which each year has a seasonal data entry for agricultural subsidies, is a large amount of technical and professional work done by students in good quality, no problem. For these tasks, it would be pointless and too expensive to hire indefinitely or for a certain period of time. In addition, in the short term, changes in the information system will allow this data to not have to be entered at all and it would be even more wrong if people were to be employed in an area that would eventually dry up. While students "take away" this seasonal, occasional technical work, student work also has other benefits, students through student travel gain working habits, improve their student standard and after this salary this is good. I've had all four years of study experience with this, I've always worked through the guide, but I've still done all the exams in time, it didn't matter, but I've earned something extra and I've learned a lot. However, it must be acknowledged that the number of students involved is high, that it is right to ask such questions and to point out this and that it is likely that the eligibility to engage so many students should be checked. There may also be a little more, perhaps too broad-hearted involvement of students, and in this respect we will warn the authorities and perhaps limit the employment of students in the future. In principle, I support the employment of students at a time when this is justified, but I agree that there is a need to be careful in this regard. Maybe just one more comparison. This student work costs us 400,000 euros on a monthly basis, we have calculated. This would mean that we could hire the same number of workers with a completed primary school. It would be pointless for these jobs to hire people for a certain or indefinite period of time, as I have already said, and I think that we can expect significantly different help from a student than from someone with a completed elementary school. So, if I finish, the warning is in place, but the student work is still a useful and valuable thing in the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Han. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u153	Well, I did say at the beginning, I won't ask again. I agree with you, Minister. I agree that students, that their work is quality, that the payment they receive is also for them, I will say, in a way normal and fair; but, as you said at the outset, you have reduced by 350 employees in the state administration. The data I have, which I also read in the newspaper, says that more than 400 students are employed for a full weekly schedule, says 40 hours. That's, I'll say, in a questionable way, and I don't know why they don't hire people who would probably manage this job full-time and all the things that go along with the job. Otherwise, you probably cannot give some answers to your questions. If Minister Cotmanov had been here, she could have responded accordingly. But for now, thank you very much, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj will ask the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u155	Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleague. My question may be somewhat unusual, because it does not concern issues that concern the wider Slovenian public, but it seems to me that after the very successful Presidency of Slovenia, the European Union is growing in the flow of foreign passengers to the Slovenian airport, that our public image is also shaped by the feeling that people get when they come to Jožet Pučnik Airport. Therefore, my question is this: After the introduction of the so-called Schengen area at Jožet Pučnik Airport, a very awkward process of directing passengers to the exit or to the doors for further flights is carried out. The renovated airport has exit pipes, after which passengers exit only halfway, we have to leave through the stairs and get on the bus, it is parked 10 to 20 metres from the entrance to the airport's building, the bus takes passengers along the entire airport building, turns around and returns before the above-mentioned airport entrance. Such a process is a startling, often a mockery of passengers, and often anger, especially when Adrie Airways’ planes are late, which has become almost a rule. I therefore ask the Minister: Why is such a regime necessary and what can the Government do to rationalise this procedure? I also believe that a considerable amount of money has been invested in the airport’s renovation, and such a process actually provokes a kind of misunderstanding and, above all, a poor impression of those who first come to Slovenia as tourists or also business.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, thank you for your question. I'll try to answer that part of the question that concerns the admission and dispatch of passengers at the airport. The current solution, which I believe is impractical and disruptive, is a temporary solution until a new passenger terminal is built, which together with the current terminal consisted of a technological whole. In view of the extraordinary increase in passengers over the last few years, which is also linked to our entry into the European Union, new reception and deployment capacities had to be provided. The airport operator and the investor in the construction of the new passenger terminal had to opt for phased construction in order to ensure the continued operation of the airport. Similar situations and solutions are generally encountered at other airports around the world. The complete system of reception and dispatch of passengers must provide at least four key requirements. First, flight registration and boarding and disembarkation; secondly, security measures; thirdly, customs control and fourthly, border control. All these requirements define for the airport, such as the Jožet Pučnik Airport in Ljubljana, 16 technological flows of passengers. It is clear that Ljubljana Airport, which proposed the current solution to passenger flows, has found no better solutions in view of the current state of the passenger terminal architecture and the above requirements. However, regardless of the above, the Ministry of Transport, which is the competent administrative authority to issue the operating permit of the airport and this passenger terminal, will re-examine the current solutions and, in the case of better solutions found or combinations from the Ljubljana Aerodrome, will require a change of passenger flows. The solutions must, of course, also be coordinated with other ministries, notably the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. And the rest will be answered by my colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you so much for asking. The question is extremely interesting and there is no easy answer, unfortunately. Unfortunately, therefore, it was not possible to build an entire terminal to the extent it was supposed to be. Minister Žerjav described these 16 different streams very precisely. I'll just tell you what's important. It is crucial for Schengen and non-Schengen passengers, when we become the Schengen airport, that persons who are in transit who do not have the right to move freely between them and persons who move freely in the Schengen area must never, at any time at the airport, come into physical contact. It is said that someone on whom an examination was carried out to go to the Schengen area and to us who do not need this examination, which we live in the Schengen area and go to the plane, and to those who come from the plane, must not at any time come to the slightest possibility of physical contact in order not to exchange any documents or any other things. This caused certain complications that you described. When we had the Schengen evaluation, the airport operator was particularly alerted. The solutions that were on the table at the time were not the most appropriate and were essentially overnight, seeking solutions at the time of evaluation, and finding this solution, which is now. I can promise you, but not just promise, I've already talked to my coworkers a few days ago, and the minister said today he wants to get involved. And we're going to try to find better solutions with the minister and the relevant services, so it really wouldn't come up with these things. Otherwise, I have to say that the police at Jožet Pučnik Airport are exercising border control. These flows must be handled and carried out as necessary by the airport operator. The Ministry or the police control this because it is not only a matter of Slovenian police, of Slovenian wishes, but it is also a matter for inspectors who come to review this issue that they come unannounced to examine the airport as to how this legal order is implemented. And here we need to find solutions, if possible, those that will meet all the criteria that procedures must meet and at the same time make such a journey as easy as possible for passengers. I can very sincerely promise you that we will try to look at things as soon as possible, look with experts, experts and then try to find a better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u161	Thank you very much for both your answers. I think that the argument that the passenger terminal has not yet been fully built is a valid argument, given the regime that the Minister of the Interior has also explained. It might be worth considering at least at this time some notice to passengers and in a short and clear way explain why such awkwardness is, because I think it would be a pretty big step in understanding the whole process. Perhaps even a bus should be removed in good weather, if this is possible, because it would significantly shorten the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri, Minister for Environment and Space, who is excusedly absent, will be asked a question by Mr Aurelio Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u163	Well, I'm sorry it's not the minister, but I understand his absence, and I expect an answer at the next meeting or a written one. Above all, it is a matter of asking the Minister to initiate certain activities with regard to the planned construction of gas terminals or natural gas heaters in the Gulf of Markets, as procedures such as those from the Italian press go forward, in particular for a gas refiner in Žavaje. I do not know how interested or affected Slovenia is in these processes because of the cross-border environmental impacts found. I am interested, and I expect this from the Minister to answer me, but above all: Is the Ministry or Government ready to initiate certain procedures in the institutions of the European Union and elsewhere, if the Italian side or investor does not take into account the interest and role of Slovenia? We do not want to be overtaken or found unprepared for complicated procedures on those sides, and perhaps our reactions would be too late. Therefore, the Minister, I have also personally sought him once, I expect a concrete answer: How many ministries are currently in the process? Is it ready, in accordance with the decisions adopted by the National Assembly, to initiate appropriate measures in the European Union institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u164	Thank you very much. You probably want a written answer. Thank you. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The Minister of Transport will be asked a question by Mrs Maria Pozsonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask the Minister about the problems with the Štuvian tunnel. But I do know that he's not responsible for this and that he shouldn't be asked. I wonder: Will those responsible bear any consequences, who will bear the cost of recovery, and how can such an anomaly occur in the rule of law at the cost of this tunnel?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u166	Mrs. Possons, it must have been a lapsus. It's a Kentucky tunnel, isn't it? Yes, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much too, Madam Members for your question. In the last days of these events, I have commented several times on my thoughts about these events. And surely what has happened and is still happening to the tunnel of Shentvid should not have happened and is unacceptable. I am also very, very disappointed about our largest and most renowned construction company, the contractor who built this tunnel, that it happened to him. I've named it in some way, as domestic as we call it, "slamparium." In my view, the responsibility in this is, of course, very, very clear. This operator will have to cover all the costs incurred in this regard. Of course, all costs for the rehabilitation of this fire protection, including, of course, the costs already incurred, and the costs incurred in connection with the closures of the tunnel and the prisons in general, given that the tunnel is not functional. With regard to the current situation, I can say that the tunnel is now closed. I think the decision to close the tunnel was the right one. Of course, the safety of users of this tunnel is important in the first place. It was decided that those places to which this fire protection is installed and could potentially be disputed or dangerous in the future to remove those areas in those days. Once the tunnel is completely safe for transport, we will also put it into use. I hope this happens this week. These were also the predictions, but as I say, number one is of course security. Before we put the matter on the market, I would like to have clear assurances from all those responsible that this tunnel is safe. However, when you asked in general or commented, said your opinion on this tunnel, I also commented several times that this is an example of a project, how such and similar projects should not actually be led. I also said that it is likely that citizens and citizens will forget this matter very quickly. However, they must never and never, and not at that time, forget this in particular about the projector's side of the projector, control, Dars, DDC, the Minister of Transport, and not least about politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The Transport Minister will be asked a question by Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u169	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! When I thought a few days ago about the announcement of the questions sent and looking at the exact statistics of these issues in the database of the National Assembly, I found that if I raise two questions, that is also true in the second round, then this will be my 100th question in this mandate. That is why I have decided to put it up, not only because of this, but also because of the fact that I have asked the transport ministry or both ministers the most questions sent in this mandate. My announced question is: How is the design of individual sections taking place? And as a result: Which sections will you implement on the entire route 4 of the transport development axis in the following years? It took a very long time for us to achieve that the entire so-called 4th axis was also included in the national resolution on development programmes for the period 2007 to 2023. A number of questions and initiatives were needed, as well as actions by municipalities in this area, to finally take a decision by the Government in January and to include a complete 4th development axis in this resolution or 4th development axis, as set out in Slovenia's Spatial Development Strategy and the Resolution on Transport Policy in our country. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Minister, if you can provide me with data: How far are the different studies of future sections that will be designed? How far are the projects prepared and what more ambitious plans for the execution of the works are in preparation or just before the start of the work over the next few years? First of all, how are the studies conducted for the bonds of the lower Idria, Godovic, Hotedršica? How is it designed from Želen v. Tolmin and from Želen v. Cerkne and further to Gorenjska? How far is the placement of the tunnel between Primorska and Gorenjska with regard to the accommodation in the very space? Then, according to your answer, [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Minister, I'm going to ask you some further questions. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for the hundredth question, and it is my honor that you have asked it to me. The fourth development axis, which runs from Robič on the border with the Republic of Italy, via Kobarid, Tolmina, Cerkna, Gorenje village, Škofje Loke do Jeprce, was defined as a priority project with a resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023. This was accepted by the Government in October 2006. At the initiative of the Ministry of Transport on 10 January 2008, the resolution was supplemented by a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as you yourself mentioned. It must be said that you were the key initiator of this matter. The planned measures on the fourth development axis represent the suburbs of Kobarid, Tolmin, Gorenje Vas and Škofja Loka and the new construction of the road on the Cerkno-Hotavlje section. In addition, a number of measures are envisaged to improve driving conditions and traffic safety throughout the fourth development axis. The activities taking place on individual sections are the following: for the first time, road connection Gorenje vas-Cerkno. At the request of the Ministry of Transport, a programme for the preparation of the national location plan was adopted in October 2006. It identified four variant solutions. On the basis of the analyses carried out, three options were included in the narrower selection, which are suitable for further evaluation. Following the proposed options for further evaluation in May 2007, the Ministry of Environment and Space gained the opinion of the local community. It follows from the opinions given that the municipality of Cerkno agrees with the variant Cerkno-Hotavlje with tunnel connection, Dolenji Novaki-Kopačica. The municipality of Gorenje Vas-Poljane opposes this option and proposes to check the course of the tunnel between Trebinje and Sovodnje. The study of variants with the most appropriate variant takes place in the road connection of Gorenje Vas-Cerkno was presented to local communities in March 2008. With the proposed alternative solution, the municipalities disagree. An additional optimisation of the options is proposed to be carried out in a coordinated manner in the cooperation of both municipalities. Due to the time distance from the determination of the final variant of the Gorenje vas-Cerkno road route, the municipality of Gorenje vas-Poljane suggested that the spatial placement procedure for the Gorenje bypass should be determined separately, which is why we agree. A variant study was prepared by the Ministry of Transport for the area of the spatial arrangement of the Tolmin, through which part of the G2/102 main road is transferred. On the basis of this study, a decision was taken at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the initiation of the preparation of the State Spatial Plan. In December 2007, Škofja Loka was granted a partial construction permit for two stages of the first stage, but a complaint was lodged. In the appeal resolution process, the Ministry of Environment and Space has revoked the building permit and returned the procedure to its resolution. In the short term, a building permit will be obtained for the second stage. Once the land is acquired at the first stage of the decommissioning process, a partial building permit will be obtained for this phase. In view of the complaint concerning the building permit issued and the long decommissioning process in the Suha village, it is expected that the time-frame for the implementation of the individual sections procedures will be partially suspended. As already stated in the introduction, the Idrian-logic leg became a component of the fourth development axis in January 2008 on your initiative, Mr Bevk. As has been said several times before, much has been invested in the reconstruction of this road leg in recent years and ongoing work is being carried out in accordance with the budget adopted now. In my reply of 21.4. this year to your question, you were described activities on the projects currently taking place on this main road G2/102. As part of the planning activities on this foot of the fourth development axis, the Republic of Slovenia's Roads Directorate is preparing a study on the variants of the Lower Idrija line, which will fully regulate the traffic situation through the village of Spodnja Idrija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, would you like another answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Indeed, in the spring, I asked about some of the projects that actually have been dragging around unreasonablely for a long time and have not yet been completed on the state road network in the municipalities of Idria and Cerkno. I also got a pretty accurate answer with deadlines. In fact, I am particularly interested in: how far is the design of other sections and other necessary projects to modernize this Idrian-logological leg of the fourth development axis? You mentioned Lower Idrija. I know that, it's good, it's an emergency bypass in this area. However, I think you mentioned that the whole route to Idria is being considered in this context. From Lower Idria to Idria there is a very critical section on Marof, where we have been right in the last few months, in the last half year three fatalities. This is essential to ensure that the link between some people, Idrija and Lower Idrija, is as appropriate as it would be for such a large concentration of the population and these two urban centres. I would like to ask: How are the planning also going, say, in Godovic, Hotedršica, in Kalcas, is new access to the highway called? Is it after 2009 when they are [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Is there any more ambitious construction planned there? [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u174	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to send you back exactly, because I don't exactly have the answers that I've prepared, which is for these sections that you mentioned. I'll send you in writing, if you'll excuse me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I thank the ministers and ministers of the Government for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on 10 July 2008, when the four questions raised by members of the opposition and the MP of the ruling coalition will be answered by the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. I'm adjourning the 41st meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00.
