ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. I begin the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Franz Horvat, Jožef Horvat, Villa Trofenik and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša to agenda items 1 and 21, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to points 4 and 16, the representative of the Council of the Slovenian Compensation Society to point 18 and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council to the 29th agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 14 March 2008. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda. The SD, LDS, Res, SNS and Lipa groups propose to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces, the second dealing with. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 21 March 2008. Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The five opposition groups firmly believe that the path the National Assembly is trying to adopt is not appropriate. Over and over again, the coalition majority of the individual solution is trying to get through the agenda and thus, every time any individual solution is adopted, it makes it difficult to have a comprehensive discussion on the issues of provincial law. For we firmly believe that the issues of the number of landscapes, the size of the landscapes, their powers and the way in which they are financed are so interconnected that no one can be dealt with separately. If the government coalition imagines that it will achieve a different opinion in opposition parliamentary groups through pressure and through political demagogism, it is wrong. And our attempt to deal with today's agenda is simply consistent policy management, which we have so far taken and which requires the simultaneous treatment of all provincial laws. We suggest that you accept our proposal and that we may catch the last train together, where it would still be possible to deal with provincial legislation in this mandate, otherwise we fear that there will be no such possibility. And in advance, let's say we won't accept any of your criticism to do this because we don't like the countryside. Reverse. You want provinces that will be unthinkable, mutually uncoordinated, and we do not want to take responsibility for such legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u3	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm opening the application. Mr. Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not support the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. For we believe that the proposal for a law is well - prepared so that we can have a second discussion at the National Assembly. We believe that the paths taken by the opposition in adopting the so-called package of provincial legislation are directed only in this direction so that the province's legislation would not be adopted in this mandate, and thus prevents the province from being able to live in 2009. This opposition is not going anywhere because what the representative of the motion for withdrawal has said when he proposes to withdraw at the same time makes it conditional on the possibility that if the proposal is not put to the vote, further discussion is not possible and thus preventing the possibility of the provincial legislation being adopted in this mandate, this does not hold any judgment. The legislation that is ready has passed, you might call it, a difficult way to get to this stage to come to another treatment. The harmonisation of such an important law as the law on the transfer of tasks from the country to the province is a long and painful work, and this way is so prepared that it is appropriate for us to actually accept it. I am afraid that the motions for the withdrawal of this law have different interests, so that, in the next term, if they come to power, they can only transpose and pass on. This would essentially prevent today's proponents from dissuading it, because the legislation is good, so we will do everything in the parliamentary group to ensure that, not only this law, but also the rest of the package of laws adopted in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u5	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I can say that the farce continues with the adoption of provincial legislation. And in our parliamentary group, we have really joined four other parties or parliamentary groups who believe that the story of the establishment of Slovenian provinces needs to be set up in a different way. The five groups of Members report that something is not right in this area. And to adopt laws that require a simple majority is a farce. And it is obvious that this puts some pressure on Members and Members, as well as on the political groups in the National Assembly, in order to come into the situation where we have all the substantive laws passed, not the adopted law or the unadopted what is essential, to agree on what provinces we want in Slovenia. And the biggest nonsense is that we accept according to my assessment the most important law, this is the law on jurisdiction, without agreement on what provinces, how big and how big we will have them in Slovenia. And this pressure, I must tell you on behalf of our Group of Members, will not bear fruit. And it is sad that, in fact, there are no discussions during this period and it is right that the public knows this, that there are no discussions, coordination, negotiation or anything in relation to the provinces, which would be the only meaningful thing and what would be the only right thing on the part of the ruling coalition. However, only harsh pressures are being exerted in adopting legislation by force. In this way, we will never reach the provinces in Slovenia, but in particular not in this mandate. It is important to negotiate, coordination is important and unfortunately you have failed the exam. However, it is clear today that the interpretation of this guilt will be very strong and very large at the end of the term. And in this explanation, I've made a lot of arguments that say that it would be right to look at even a little bit of yourself, and to start on the right foundation and really talk about it, and that at that point where we stopped. However, it is not that we are adopting a law on competences, to which it gives you extremely strong and serious concerns in a systemic sense, also by the Legal and Legal Service, which says that it cannot be adopted, the most important substantive legislation, without knowing what the provinces will be like, that this law has a systemic impact on more than 50 other areas of law and creates a lack of transparency and ambiguity of the legal text. All these arguments, all these warnings are irrelevant to you. He's coming. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Milan Friday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues, colleagues! I will not say anything new if I repeat what we have been doing all the time, in fact, all opposition Members, that you are sinning when you adopt legislation so important for the future development of Slovenia in a way that by voting only coalition votes you want to adopt the whole package of laws. In doing so, you have probably overlooked that in the opposition we are united, that all the opposition is voting or obstructing the meetings when you stubbornly insist that the debate on the laws that are at this stage really make sense at this point. Unfortunately, this deaf coalition can be as deaf as it can be, and in this case, it is obvious that it rejects all well-intentioned proposals and does not consider our calls. Thus, for the second time today, we are in a position to try to tell you that the adoption of one of the laws, despite the fact that the basic law, this is the law establishing the provinces, this Parliament has not adopted or voted by a small number of votes, is pointless. This is what the Legal and Legislative Service has told you, which we believe we should at least respect in our conduct. You are also reviving this and carrying out literal violence against all the opposition, and I believe that violence against the people of Slovenia, who expect responsible parliamentary conduct and parliamentary unification in relation to such important legislation. But what is happening outside Parliament on the so-called signatures of the petition when some coalition MPs, through their client groups, sign a document that does not say that it is a package of provincial legislation that brings 14 provinces but speaks of being for the provinces, but is an abuse of democracy that you do not really want to force legislation that does not have the right title in that case. For this reason, once again the call: let us break or withdraw the item from today's agenda, take time, agree once again, and determine whether there are conditions for us to adopt this legislation in this Parliament or in this mandate. If not, let us wait for the second term to continue our work. It is possible to say that progress compared to what has been done so far but not enough to enjoy our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members, of course, supports the withdrawal of this item from the agenda because it has already informed the coalition partners that it will not participate in the further adoption of the provincial legislation, because it is clear and we must be aware that I cannot be the final success if there are no two-thirds of the Members present when the roof law is adopted. And this will not be accepted, as is already known to everyone today. We believe that the continuation of procedures under all other laws adopted by the ordinary majority, the waste of time we do not have, and the money that is not ours, but from the citizens who have to do so, I would say, the unilateral will of most of our government coalition to endure. I think it is right to finally realise that the question of the establishment and operation of the provinces is in the broadest interest of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and that this legislation should experience the widest consensus of all political parties in Parliament and there can be no solution that could be adopted unilaterally, with the total opposition so much as half of the electoral body. In this context, we believe it is right that the coalition that offers this withdraws this law from the agenda and begins with the continuation of agreements that would bring a broader consensus on the adoption of individual laws and give hope that eventually the roof law will also be passed. If our coalition partners, however, are to rape the National Assembly by continuing these procedures without broad agreement, then we must inform both coalition partners and the National Assembly, but of course the wider Slovenian public that we will not participate in such unilateral conduct. Not only will we not support these procedures, but we will not cooperate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u11	Thank you. This concludes the debate. Members and Members are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 36. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. The Zares Group proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law on legal tariff. You received a motion for withdrawal on 21 March 2008. Would you like a representative of the motions? Here you go, Mr. Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! Indeed, we have tabled a motion to withdraw the 14th point, this is the proposal for a law on legal tariff. The explanation is very simple. In our view, this law should not be placed on the agenda at all, since the law to which this bill applies is not even in the hearing of the National Assembly is in preparation and even less in order to be adopted. Thus, of course, we cannot adopt a law on legal tariff unless we know for sure what solutions will be adopted in the Law on Lawyers. If we adopt this law and this legal void exists, we will bring all the legal relations and tariffs into some empty space. I therefore call on all of us to go in order, first of all, to decide whether we want the changes proposed by the Government or not, and then to amend the law on legal tariff. I propose that we withdraw this law from the agenda, because, after all, it should not be included on the agenda at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u13	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary groups would like a word? I'm opening applications. Check-in is on. Mrs. Lavtizar Bebler, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The delegation of the Group of Social Democrats will support this proposal for the withdrawal of this law from the agenda. We oppose the decision to set the bar by law, we attach our opposition to the constitutional provision that the bar as a work of justice is an independent and independent service, and that public interest is realized through the consent of the Minister of Justice to any change in the legal rate. In this way, if this law were to remain on the agenda, the National Assembly would first consider and perhaps also adopt a law on legal tariffs, as the law on legal representation itself, which was only supposed to refer to the law on legal tariffs. Such a procedure is unacceptable for us not to say at all that the Government is proposing a law on lawyering after a reduced procedure, which does not really mean minor and minor changes. And in this respect, such a procedure is totally unacceptable and unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u16	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we oppose the inclusion of this bill in this meeting. The reasons have been told many times today, but in fact we cannot make decisions about something that has not yet been given us to decide. Only a change in the law on lawyers would allow us to do so. At the moment, the law that has already been passed is in force and this prevents the adoption of such a law. This makes no sense, but it is in some manner that the Ministry of Justice has been leading in recent times. It is said that we first decide on some partial solutions or laws dealing with narrower areas and then, by reference to these decisions, are dealt with by broader laws, whether roof or systemic. However, there is certainly a reason for us to oppose this law, including the fact that, after all, the Minister can always, in his opinion, prevent or allow the change of tariffs and it seems to us that this law in itself is unnecessary and a waste of time and nerves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will oppose the withdrawal of this item from the agenda. We believe that this is a very important law; it is a matter of a lawyer's tariff, which cannot and must not be limited to lawyers, but rather of a legal activity that is carried out primarily in the public interest. Therefore, the public interest represented by the State is such that it is right for the legal tariff to be fixed by law. It is also a law that is primarily in the interest of users of legal services, which will be able to get this assistance from lawyers faster and cheaper. We can also rightly expect that, in this way, this concept, which is being enforced by this law, will also be more strongly and effectively and responsibly represented on average. However, if I continued to do so, I would also be launching myself into the very content that will come later. In fact, it seems to me that the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda is an attempt to delay the adoption of this law, which is, after all, essential in order to contribute to the resolution of the judicial backlogs, which, as we know, are a very serious problem in our country, so it is only right that all of us, who have the opportunity to decide and contribute to the reduction or elimination of judicial backlogs, should do our utmost to contribute to the fact that judicial backlogs will be lifted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u19	Thank you. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. The vote on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda shall take place. There are 96 Members present, 29 votes against 37. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal to extend the agenda. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda be extended by consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law establishing the minimum wage, the urgent procedure. You received the proposal for enlargement by letter dated 21 March 2008. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 1. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are now moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference to the meeting and by means of an addendum adopted. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 4. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the agenda of the 37th meeting of the assembly has been set. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda - questions of Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u20	Dear Members, please calm down and take your seats. It also applies to ministers and other representatives of the Slovenian Government. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 28 Members and Members within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the question raised by the Member of the ruling coalition will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. The questions raised at the 33rd, 34th, 35th and 36th meetings of the Assembly will be answered by ministers present today. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by the major ministers, they all have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the following ministers and Minister of Defence Mr Karl Erjavec, Secretary-General of the Government, apologised for today. Ms Bozo Podalič and Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs Marjeta Cotman. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Zares Group announced on Friday an oral question to the President of the Government. Our colleague, Villa Trophynik, is supposed to be asking a question. Unfortunately, his colleague got sick during the holidays, and today we were informed that no other Member or Member of the Zares Group should raise the question. We have received an incomprehensible and very unusual answer for us to read our question to the President of the National Assembly once in 2006. The Rules of Procedure do not talk about this and this situation. That's why we feel like the President of the National Assembly is having a grave attack on our rights. The question of e-mails includes a question and an explanation of the question, and we will be unable to explain the question or we will be prevented from asking the question at all. We will also be denied and deprived of the right of any request to complete the response and to make a request to discuss this response. The questions raised by the President of the Government, in particular, are very important to the opposition. They have a special meaning for us. Of course, we are very disappointed that this is how we want to close our mouths and shove a tipper, for according to our assessment it is a business exercise. And, Mr President Tsukjat, if you take such a decision again today - because we propose that other colleagues and colleagues decide on it by voting, because this may happen to anyone else in the future, then allow me to read this to you: "As far as the question is concerned, there is no need to state in advance an explanation for the question, otherwise I do not see the point in having this part of the parliamentary work at all. Only those officials who prepare the answers in advance to the President of the Government can send them in writing and then we don't even need them in Parliament." This was said on 20 April 2004 by the current Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, who is supposed to answer a similar question today, but unfortunately we cannot ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u22	Mrs Zalokar Orazem, the public or the National Assembly, requests me to respond to this initiative or protest. Mr. Lakhovnik was with me, we were thinking, I explained the matter to him, and I didn't notice that I wouldn't understand this explanation. However, let me say that Article 244 says that the question put by a member of the opposition parliamentary group rather than by a parliamentary group is an issue. If the Member is not present, no one can replace him in the question. Nobody. We had this case back in 2006, and on 13 July, when Mr Preseknik had a question announced to the President of the Government, he was justifiably absent from the operation. And then, if you choose to look at the magnetogram, I will quote what I said: "President France Tsukati: Thank you, Mr President. Mr Jakob Preseknik has given you the following question..." and I have quoted the question raised. "Because Mr President is justifiably absent today, I ask whether you wish to answer his question? Here you go." And that's how I'm gonna keep doing it, including today. I apologize to the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members for this interruption of work. We are moving on to raise the questions sent by Members of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u23	Respectable present. Good afternoon, Mr. President of the Government. In the Lipa Group, we say that you are leading an irresponsible policy, leading an irresponsible and non-creditable agreed policy in the negotiation with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. The fact is, with open questions, you manipulate interstate issues, manipulate in terms of satisfying a narrow, selfish policy objective - that is, electing votes. The facts show that the arrangements began to take place on a regular basis right during your government's time, so that Croatia raises the issue for it just before its elections and, of course, later finds a favourable solution and subsequently withdraws from this solution. The same thing is happening in our country. I'm sorry. Once again, according to our assessment, you are leading an irresponsible policy. This irresponsible policy is likely to include an agreed policy with some other political parties within the National Assembly who have those, as colleague Boštjan Zagorac said, "the Easter Stone Coloring Syndrome". I would like to raise the following question. First, what has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia done to protect the national interests of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of the European Union Presidency Institute? Secondly, in view of the cynical smile of the Foreign Minister on the Foreign Policy Committee when presenting the decision and asking the PSC to adopt a proposal for a decision, which we have submitted in the framework of the parliamentary group, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on External Affairs, or for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the home working body of the National Assembly, to adopt a decision or to be drawn up by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to be decided by the Government on the basis of a preliminary opinion of the working body, in order to temporarily recall the Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to neighbouring Croatia. According to our assessment, Slovenia should take the step that would express our autonomy and, above all, our Slovenian pride. However, it is not always a matter of sending diplomatic notes at lower levels, but of blaming the situation again and again the lower instances or even the directors of the various agricultural funds. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you to answer both questions. Firstly, as regards the effectiveness of the Presidency of the European Union and the ability of our country to choose something for itself as a full-fledged member of the European Union, and secondly, on the proposal of the Group of Members to suspend the recall of our Ambassador from neighbouring Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u25	Thank you so much for asking. The Slovenian Government has consistently based its relations with Croatia on the basic constitutional charter adopted at the National Assembly in June 1991. Among other things, this basic constitutional charter also provides that the former borders between the two republics, according to the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, have become the state borders of the two newly created countries within the former Yugoslavia. The confirmation of this basic source, which was practically adopted in the same text in the Croatian Parliament, also in June 1991, reached that government in June 2005 with the Brionic Declaration. With this brionic statement, the governments of Slovenia and Croatia committed themselves to avoiding incidents and reaffirmed the need to respect the state and powers at the border and at the border, as was the case at the time of independence. After that date, indeed, the neighbouring country has violated this agreement unilaterally several times, but no unilateral action by the neighbouring country not after that date or before that date within the mandate of that Government has been without an adequate response. I would point out, however, that this Government did not receive an unwritten sheet of paper in its hands on 3 December 2004. It received an irregular situation in three or four key areas in the relationship between Slovenia and Croatia. And it is necessary to solve the situation as it is, not as you would like it to be or as you would like it to be. From this point of view, it must be said that today, March 2008, Slovenia controls just as much the sovereign territory of the Republic of Slovenia as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia controlled four or five years ago. In addition to the legal effects of various unilateral moves, different contexts need to be taken into account, including the European context of some Croatian moves. Slovenia committed itself to a European policy of good neighbourly relations at the start of negotiations for membership in the European Union. A neighbouring country is also committed to this policy with the start of negotiations for membership in the European Union. The European principle that, despite some problems, it is finally proving the case of a conservation ecological fishing zone. It has proved very correct to insist Slovenia's insistence on the problem of Croatia's withdrawal or non-compliance with the agreement on the relationship Croatia - the European Union or the European Commission. The Croatian side is the one that unilaterally violated the agreed regime. In this case, the European stance has proved to be the most effective one, and the only effective question could even be what would have happened to this zone if it had not been for this European framework. Although it took two and a half months, Croatia was forced unilaterally to rescind the measure. The government will also take into account the latest conclusions of the Committee on International Relations of the National Assembly in dealing with open issues with neighbouring Croatia, and will also protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia with all legitimate means in the future. These include thoughtful and proportionate reactions to unilateral moves and actions that lead to results in the long term. Even at the time of Slovenia's Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we want a single appearance by political actors to these relations and to the question of relations between Slovenia and Croatia. At Thursday's meeting, the leaders of the parliamentary parties I convened [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We will see if this commitment, which has so far been at least forceful, can hold back even at this time, which some have already declared pre-election. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u26	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u27	I don't think you've even responded to the contents of the ambassador's recall. But I must tell you, you probably know that your Foreign Minister, Dimitrij Rupel, at the P.O.P., has a cynical smile on this proposal. I would therefore ask from this place, based on your answer: Is the European context, as you mentioned, a lack of awareness of the importance of its own territory? Is the European context of ignorance a national homeland being? You know, a while ago, in the National Assembly, you were talking about the Treaty of Lisbon, how good it is for the Member States, because it is through this treaty that they will get their national identity, and you are saying the opposite. From this place, allow me to raise open questions with the Republic of Croatia since the independence of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not going to blame the previous government, because you've been a real government for three and a half years. However, I would like to point out that Slovenia has continued to lose both the integrity of the Bay of Piran and, finally, the territorial exit to the open sea since its independence. You can't deny it either, I'm afraid. The fact is that you have weapons and canvas or tools and canvas in your hands right under the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, let me also ask you, for the second time or for the third time, for the first time in writing, about the proposal to recall the temporary Slovenian ambassador from neighbouring Croatia as a measure that would clearly indicate the intention of the Slovenian government not to give up on the existence of its own nation, i.e. territorial integrity. I would also like to point out that, in the context of your response, we cannot be satisfied with the fact that you are putting everything exclusively on a negotiated policy. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] The European Union. According to the assessment of the Lipa Group, as President of the European Union, we should also know how to find those instruments - and after six months you did not know them - which would be of concern and [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u29	As far as the Slovenian leadership of the Council of the European Union is concerned, once again, at a time when Slovenia has this responsibility, duty and rights, the neighbouring country has withdrawn a unilateral move and revoked the application of the environmental and fisheries protection zone for the members of the European Union, including Slovenia. We could all get to know this directly. If anyone enjoyed this, he could also watch a direct transmission of the session of the Croatian Parliament where the decision was taken. It probably does not need to be emphasized that this was a decision that was possible only in the context of the European framework and in the context of the European paradigm. As far as the recall of the Slovenian ambassador in Croatia is concerned, it is obvious that Slovenia or the Slovenian Government did not recall the ambassador. We want to solve problems, not freeze them or otherwise contribute to somehow becoming responsible for the unilateral moves that the other party is making. I have already made it very clear that the Slovenian government will protect Slovenian national interests in such a way that we will come up with long-term solutions in order to be effective. Not in a way that something bombastic may happen, but in three days the problems will be the same or even bigger. Unilateral measures must also be answered in a proportionate way, in a way that does not distance Slovenia from solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u30	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mr Pece, I would like to warn you and express my wish not to repeat the error of the previous meeting and previous meetings, where the procedural proposal will be used to ask new questions, new facts or readings, because in this case I will be forced to correct such a mistake by allowing the President of the Government to respond immediately to such new findings. In democratic systems, every defendant has the opportunity to respond to new findings. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u31	Dear President! The dilemma stems, of course, from the vague or inconclusive reply of the President of the Government, which, in my firm opinion, does not go in the context of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, allow me to explain from this place the procedural proposal, in particular in that context, or to pursue the objective of attracting content, if I am not already the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but at least a sufficient number of Members and Members to support the proposal for an expanded debate tomorrow in the context of the votes. It is not true that Croatia has cancelled the economic and fisheries zone, as stated by the Prime Minister of the Government. She just postponed its implementation. In this regard, we must be more than clear on such a very important issue. If the President of the Government didn't know that, I'd like to introduce him to this place. But I'm sorry the President of the Government didn't know that. Secondly, I would like to point out what the problem of a negotiated policy is, namely, an agreed policy between your colleague, the President of Croatia. Here. Croatia announced the economic and fishing zone just before its elections, after the elections were held, it cancelled it. I am afraid, however, that the same is happening within the Republic of Slovenia. And that's an agreed policy. The fact is, not one question has our country been able to resolve everything since its independence, but before each election there will be an irresponsible government and irresponsible individuals who find it, whether it be a solution in cannons and tanks at the border or in creating conflicts by knowing that closer than we will be to the election day, they will find a solution that will hold, regrettably, only three or four weeks after the election. We want to stop this practice within the Lipa Group. We therefore argue that it would be right for the National Assembly to hold a debate on the proposal to recall an ambassador whose proposal the President of the Government categorically rejected. And rejected before the National Assembly, before the Slovenian public and destroyed that measure which is classic in the context of State disputes or inter-State disagreements. And, in my opinion, the President of the Government, if the National Assembly were to stress the value of this issue as a real weight, i.e. the importance of maintaining national territorial sovereignty, the debate would be more than welcome. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to follow the procedural proposal, and all Members present and Members to show more national responsibilities than the President of the Government in his reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u32	Thank you. Does the Prime Minister want to respond to the new findings? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u33	Just a brief explanation. I think the National Choir deserves it. The Member of Parliament spoke about Croatia declaring the economic and fisheries zone. Croatia has declared an ecological fishing zone. This is something else, respectable Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u34	Thank you. Next procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u35	Mr. President of the National Assembly. I respect the President of the Government and his right to explain his questions or his answers. But what you've done now is violate the Rules of Procedure. You used to refer when it came to our parliamentary group to what the practice was in 2006 and you reasoned on it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u36	Procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u37	Why can't any of us? [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u38	Mr. Lakhovnik [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u39	Why can't any of us ask a question? [[...]] But now you have violated what has never happened before in the National Assembly, now you have made it possible for the President of the Government. I am really asking here that this practice does not repeat itself, because otherwise we will leave the meeting of the National Assembly if the Rules of Procedure change every hour, just as it seems. I think it was a manifest violation of the rules of procedure. All those who have rules of procedure know this, and I ask the truth that this never happens again.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u40	I can't say thank you for not making a procedural proposal. Mr. Zagorac, a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'll draw up a procedural proposal at the beginning so there won't be any interruption problems. I hope you'll allow me another two minutes to explain it. I would like to suggest to you, on a procedural basis, that, as President, although you have the right to interpret the Rules of Procedure, you do not do so for your own benefit and for the benefit of the party you belong to. You're the first of the same in this house. I would like to say that this government and government parties are able to do a number of things five months before the elections, ranging from changing electoral thefts to imposing regions and something else. That way you don't have to break the Holy Constitution, I'll say, this house. President of the Government, if you were to make an announcement, anything to add and say, order your partisans, pardons, soldiers to confirm it tomorrow, and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u42	Mr. Zagorac [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u43	You'll be able to speak unlimitedly. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u44	Mr Willi Trofenik is not present, and I ask the President of the Government whether he wants to answer his question as follows: "I ask you what, in the light of the principle of equality, you will do to eliminate criminal discrepancies between certain salaries in the public and private sectors?" Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u45	I'm sorry that Member Trofenika is not here. But I remember years when we from the opposition questioned the government and when some strict rules were in force. I have asked the President of the Government and the President of Parliament a question every month, and there have been more in the past mandates, he has never allowed a new question to be asked in explanation of the formal or procedural proposal for a debate. Never. Abuse is here, not when someone can answer. As regards Mr Trofenik's question, let me say that a new social agreement was signed last year for the period until 2009. In this agreement, the Government has committed itself to working towards long-term coherence in the wage growth of the public and private sectors, taking into account differences, the composition of employment and the achievement of the level of gross wages between the sectors. In recent years, Slovenia has recorded certain differences, some calling this a major difference in wage growth in both sectors. The growth in wages has increased faster in the economy or the private sector in recent years. The slower wage growth in the public sector is at the expense of the fact that only part of the agreed wage increase has been paid each time and part of these funds has been earmarked or stored to eliminate wage imbalances. Of course, there is a difference between salaries in the public and private sectors if we only look at general figures, but this difference is linked to a higher education structure in the public sector. And this number can't be implemented. The Government's key role was in this mandate and will also continue to ensure wage growth, which will be macroeconomicly sustainable, as well as flexibility in wage-making mechanisms, such mechanisms that will allow for the adjustment of productivity in individual sectors. The government also responds to various known pressures and has helped those who receive the lowest wage by various measures. Part of these measures were taken by the National Assembly. In this mandate, the government, through tax reform and some subsequent amendments to tax laws, has made it possible to pay substantially higher wages with tax relief, which was further accepted for those in the lower income class or lower social class and which was adopted recently, thus further improving their social situation. In recent years, perhaps this has been interesting for anyone, the movement or real growth of gross wages for employees in the public and private sectors has been such that in the years from 1996 to 2004, it is generally said, in a period of eight years except one year, the increase in public sector wages was much higher than the increase in wages in the economy. Since 2004, this trend has turned and the growth in gross wages in the economy has been significantly higher than in the public sector. For the last three years alone, this information is very clear. Real GDP growth in the public sector in 2005 was 0.9%, in private 2.8%. In 2006, real GDP growth in the public sector was 1%, in the economy 2.8%, and last year 0.5% in the public sector and 3.2% in the private sector. Some of the imbalances that exist are eliminated by [[...]] [[End warning sign]] The latest measures. [[...]] I hope that the first sector contract with a very important public sector union will be signed next week.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u46	Thank you. The next one will ask the Prime Minister a question from the Member States, Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u47	Thank you very much. That's a nice hello to you all! Slovenia has decided on independence and independence, and the Assembly, not the National Assembly, has adopted a binding document on 25.6.1991. On the other hand, Croatia. Slovenia adheres to this document, Croatia does not adhere to this document. Slovenia has already been deceived and brought around in history, but if we take it, first with the referendum in 1866, when we lost Venice, then with the Koroski plebiscite, with the referendum in 1920, when we lost Koroška, and then with the dirty trade of Anglo-Francos with Italy regarding Trieste and Gorica, which was, of course, definitively regulated by the Cromanic Agreements. However, nothing has been arranged towards Croatia. Croatia, which, in the light of the various arrangements between Budapest and Vienna, has slowly reached the Slovenian territory and has, most of all after World War II, acquired huge areas of Slovenian territory, is simply moving, repairing the cadastral maps, lying around the world, cheating, proving unprovable or proving the lies and truths that are being spent all the time, and, of course, using its own so-called international law experts, unfortunately also with the help of some so-called Slovenian experts on international law, Slovenia is losing its territory, its sovereignty and its independence. I ask the Government: What will she do in this area? Are we really just gonna hear that enough is enough to send notes? Is it enough if we behave in a European way, but when Croats do not behave in a European way? Will we allow Croats free entry into the European Union, where they do not belong according to their operation? I think it is high time for us to reach more acutely on those diplomatic or other criteria and vats that will ensure the Slovenians a peaceful stay within their own country, but not that we will no longer know whether Slovenia will still be Slovenian in the short term or whether Croatia will already declare it its territory. It may sound a little funny, but if you listen to Mr. Nobel, you won't be laughing anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u49	Thank you, too, for that question. For the third time today, let me repeat in the National Assembly that, within the mandate of this government, no unilateral action has been lost, no unilateral action by the neighbouring country has been lost. Even in recent events on the left bank of Dragonje and near Mura, the Slovenian authorities have reacted in accordance with international law and with measures to prevent unilateral moves from being exploited in a legal sense at any time in the future. As I said before, this government did not inherit an empty sheet of paper in order to start renegotiating on issues. We inherited a situation that was somewhat close to what the Member is asking. For example, border stones in Murska Šuma, which have very excited the Slovenian public, in recent weeks in particular, due to a rather specific reporting of Slovenian national television. As far as the border stones at the border between Slovenia and Hungary are concerned, in 1992 and 1993, Slovenia properly redesigned our site of border stones or milestones and carved the inscription Republic of Slovenia. In part, these inscriptions at the work of this border were cursed by the neighbouring country, the authorities of the neighbouring country of Croatia in 1995, not in 2008, 13 years ago. The Slovenian authorities only formally identified this in 1998 and warned the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and then again at the end of 2000. At the end of 2000, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wrote a protest note that had never been sent. The fact that the note was not sent was a directive from the cabinet of the then President of the Government. This was at a time when arrangements were likely to begin for a company later named "The Drnovšek-Račan Agreement". In short, this note is still at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and was written at the end of 2000. Nothing has actually happened here since then. The competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia have not returned the situation to where it should be. That's what needs to be done. In this respect, the necessary measures will be put in place. As regards the other measures, I should say that a law has been adopted within the mandate of this Government which has reacted to the unilateral negotiations of the neighbouring country with Italy on the delimitation of the continental belts. By this law, Slovenia declared the Slovenian ecological protection zone and legally regulated the epicontinental belt of Slovenia. No one's ever done this before. During this time or during this mandate, the Government adopted a regulation introducing the Slovenian fishing zone at sea, an agreement was reached on the regulation of the river Muri floods, an attempt was stopped to join the Slovenian occupation of Mirište on the infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia, and ten days ago the issue of Croatia, the conservation ecological fishing zone which Croatia cancelled for the members of the European Union, was successfully resolved until a common agreement with Slovenia was reached. In short, the situation is restored in time before the entry into force of this zone for Slovenia as well. All these actions, which have been carried out in this mandate, the provision and exercise of sovereignty, sovereign rights and the jurisdiction of Slovenia over areas also belonging to Slovenia 25. 6. 1991. This Government has therefore taken quite a few steps to resolve these open issues, including those that have never tried before, and at this point another attempt is under way through the part of the two mixed boards, whose aim is to bring the border issue closer to a solution, a long-term solution. In a short time, we will see if it can be said that this path will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u50	Thank you. You want a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Thank you for a nice answer. In fact, we learned something that had been hidden for a long time. And the fact is that it is true that the current government has reacted significantly differently from all previous governments. That's right. And she responded to all the unilateral moves. However, I think that now that Croats are under pressure, and now that we have the opportunity to squeeze them by the door when we enter the European Union, we should take advantage of all our legal and other options to resolve these mutual issues. But something else is happening. Police do not react or protect Slovenian territory, do not protect Slovenian officials and essentially hunt Slovenian Members as terrorists, while Croats quietly walk around and restore white and black color on those stones every so long. Although the stones were dazzled in 1995, these stones are so well preserved that it is evident that they are restored at least every six months, if not more often. Anything else is questionable. It is also questionable that Croats are entering Slovenian territory into their cadastral maps and no one is doing anything in this area. Our so-called legal experts are actually very strange provenances, because the leader of that special commission, the board of directors, is a man who has also stated that Slovenia does not have an exit to the open sea. I don't know how this person can either change so much or get educated at this time, but then it shows that he didn't have the right education when he needed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u53	I would only respond to the repeated assertion that the European framework and the European context are not something that Slovenia would not be able to take advantage of and would not result in results. Once again, Croatia has been forced to repeal one of the key unilateral measures that it has unilaterally taken in recent times, which may actually have an impact on the prejudication of the border issue and the resolution of some other open issues. If there were no European context, this probably would not have been cancelled. So we are blind if we do not see these circumstances that are in favour of Slovenia. The text adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which essentially annuls the validity of this zone for the Member States of the European Union, establishes a situation as it was before 1 January of this year and as agreed in 2004 before the beginning of the term of office of this Government. So the solution now in force is the solution that Slovenia signed in June 2004 and has no practical implications and no legal consequences for the situation as it is and does not prejudge the question of final border determination. If it were different, we would, of course, react to such a decision. And only someone who doesn't want to see reality, and someone who doesn't want to see a wider context, can believe that everything that happened happened happened in itself, that what fell out of the sky.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u54	Thank you. You want a procedural proposal? Please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask the Assembly to vote on the extension of the matter and on the debate, because what Mr President said is true, but it would be normal for a normal country to sit on the other side of the Slovenian negotiating table, not Croatia. There is no way to talk to Croats in a normal way, for Croatia has never kept a word in all history. If we take history books, then we see that keeping the word in Croatian political jargon is an unknown term. And prejudicing the border - I don't know why our government doesn't take into account the fact, for example, that this southern neighbour of ours just as the Yugoslav People's Army troops from its territory hit Slovenia, forced Slovenian workers who put a border crossing at the then administrative border between the two republics under the corner [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u56	Mr Jelinčič, I warn you again, these are new questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u57	That's not a question, President. This is a statement that explains why I want to discuss this. I'll be done in a minute. This is on that corner of 163, under the quarry, and in this way Croatia actively participated in the aggression against Slovenia. I think this is also what we need to talk about in the National Assembly, so I propose that we vote on extending this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u58	Thank you. The next one will ask the Prime Minister a question from the Member States, Mr Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u59	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. For many years, when considering the annual plans or reports of Dars, or when considering laws relating to the transport or transport sector, we regularly face questions about the suitability of the toll system. The problems are pointed out by all users of motorways, domestic and foreign, both by drivers of passenger vehicles and by truckers. Many questions are raised about the rationality of the toll system, as both corridors are cut down by a number of toll stations, which significantly reduce the flow, travel speed and safety. This is particularly true in the case of traffic spikes or during vacations, where there are still long columns. The existing toll model also has some shortcomings, which also have a significant impact on the level of the toll collected. It is paradoxical that even though we have an average density of toll stations, only 60% of road users pay the toll, 40% of the toll does not pay. Many passenger traffic, as well as trucks, avoid toll payments by using parallel roads, where they cause additional traffic, reduce traffic safety, cause congestion and also destroy roads. The frequency we have in highway traffic for this so-called ABC system is also unusual. The construction of the motorway itself is overloaded with both the number of toll stations and the cost of both running and maintenance costs of toll stations is very high. Before the day, the government adopted a plan to introduce tolling with vignettes, which represents a significantly different concept of charging the use of motorways and fast roads. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to know: What are the expected effects of the introduction of vineyards for both domestic and foreign users? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u61	Thank you so much for asking. Let me first say that this is not a decision that would have been made quickly. It was discussed and studied practically all of this mandate, and some of it had been done before. It was also necessary to make a decision because Slovenia was ending the construction of the motorway cross and it was necessary, purely because of some operational needs, to finally adjust the system. We might have done this earlier, but at the beginning of the mandate it was still hoped that the entire European Union, with Galileo and some other preparations within the promised deadline, would be able to fully transfer to the satellite tolling system. This is not possible due to delays, this step is delayed and solutions need to be sought that are better than the current ones for this interim period. The current tolling system has already been partially described in the question. The fact is, we give a good half of the users pay the toll. In particular, this system is unfair to a number of citizens and citizens who drive daily and who depend entirely on whether they live before or for a toll station, and in view of this happiness or accident, they also pay or do not pay tolls or pay a smaller or larger toll. The selected version of the annual and semi-annual vignette is the best of the real options available. It enables a favourable price and thus brings the use of motorways closer to a very large number of users. A relatively more burdensome transit, which has so far not paid the right price for the use of Slovenian motorways. On the basis of official data, Slovenia’s borders per year move almost 50 million passenger vehicles. It is said that at least 25 million entrances and exits are only personal vehicles. Transit increases every year. Based on these figures, the potential number of buyers of annual and semi-annual vignettes has been calculated and, in my opinion, these estimates are relatively conservative. They do not take into account the fact that traffic will increase over the next three years, for which calculation is made. They take into account the same number for all three years. This conservative calculation shows that this will generate at least 10% more tolls, which will improve the financial position of the Company for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia. This project will have an important impact on increased labour mobility in Slovenia, will reduce the frequency and flow of transport, will also reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions into the atmosphere, which will also be considered financially in the coming years, given the commitments made by the European Union. This system will more fairly divide the cost of maintaining motorways between domestic users and transit. And at this point, the need to invest in new toll stations is being eliminated. At this point we should decide on three new toll stations, each costing 3.5 million euros, totalling 10 million, which we save mainly because only one will be built for the temporary toll of freight transport, and this will also cover the initial costs of introduction. Of course, the introduction of vignettes is not the final solution, we have made this very clear in the Government. That's the first step. They'll follow two more. The second step is satellite tolling, which is technically possible for freight vehicles, introduced no later than the end of July of the following year; preparations are under way. And the third step is satellite tolling in the open for all vehicles as soon as technically possible. This is the final solution, but vignettes are a transitional step that pays off, which ensures a better financial position for Darsa and also significantly lowers the burden of a large majority of domestic drivers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u62	Thank you. We have thus concluded the question to the President of the Government. On the proposals made by Members, Mr Pečet and Mr Jelinčič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Government's replies to their questions, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Thursday, 27 March 2008. We turn to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 33rd, 34th, 35th and 36th meetings of the assembly. I ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Gregor Virant, to answer the question of mags. Majde Potrat concerning the signing of agreements between the Government and NGOs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This agreement, which started already in the mandate of the previous Government, is not yet signed. The Government has adopted its negotiating points for negotiations on the conclusion of this Agreement. What I think is important is that, within the mandate of this government, there have been very large, positive movements in terms of improving the conditions for the work of NGOs. If I am specific, after longer negotiations with the European Commission, Slovenia, as the only member of the European Union, managed to provide 15 million euros in structural resources exclusively to promote the development of non-governmental civil and social dialogue organisations. Slovenia is the only member of the European Union that has also implemented this content in the priority areas. In doing so, it should be stressed that non-governmental organisations, not as an exclusive entity, are also eligible for Structural Funds in other priority areas, totalling more than EUR 50 million. Another important concrete step that has been taken was to provide administrative assistance in drawing on these funds. We are aware that NGOs do not have the appropriate infrastructure, skills to be able to draw on this money without any assistance, so in order to ensure the efficient use of resources at the Ministry of Public Administration, we have provided administrative and technical assistance by providing NGOs with information on the Structural Funds to organise and implement workshops for potential and selected beneficiaries, so that we can also provide direct technical assistance in preparing project applications to apply for the call to evaluate the public calls made and so on. In the budget we also provide 15% of the advance for each project or for all calls because payments are made only after the submitted and certified reports and NGOs do not have the money they could borrow. So, we have made a large amount of money as a priority area under the Structural Funds, we provide administrative assistance and we provide advances from the budget. Already this year, we have launched two calls from the Structural Funds to strengthen horizontal NGOs networks and regional NGOs, totalling €654,000 and from domestic resources, for the promotion of civil dialogue and for the provision of services to NGOs worth €230,000. A concrete indication is that the funds to strengthen NGOs for these horizontal funds have increased by 10 times since the beginning of this government's mandate. I think that this is sufficiently specific about the government's attitude towards non-governmental organisations and I think that this information also shows that we have provided this money in an economic way, so that we are not only burdening the Slovenian budget, but we are mainly burdening European structural funds or providing this money from the European Structural Funds. Another measure seems very important to me, and we have amended the Rules of Procedure of the Government, Article 8, by giving greater weight to the participation of NGOs in the preparation and adoption of government regulations. In fact, any provision to be made by law or by law must be accompanied by a specific declaration on the government procedure; this is a statement on the removal of administrative obstacles relating to the need to clear all unnecessary bureaucratic complications, and this statement also contains a report on the dialogue with NGOs and civil society, since the applicant must report on which organisations he has participated in the preparation of what comments he has received or has taken into account these comments and has failed to take account why he has failed to take them into account. This is kind of a formal procedural standard for civil society participation in the preparation and adoption of regulations, of course this is not enough in itself, it must also be respected, taken into account and in our ministry we are trying to make sure that in reviewing regulations, all the rules go through our deadlines, to see whether the regulation is of good quality from this point of view, that is, whether the non-governmental sphere has been involved in the preparation, whether they have had the opportunity to comment on whether or not the uncoordinated comments have been discussed and whether the uncoordinated issues have been adequately substantiated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u64	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Since 2005, I have been asking you, Madam Minister, about the cooperation of NGOs. Of course, my questions are the views of NGOs. If I'm listening to you, everything's fine, good and good. I do not object to the fact that you have managed to resolve things with the Commission, but non-governmental organisations have expected the signing of the Cooperation Agreement between NGOs and the Government. There is no such agreement. Among other things, you have financed three analyses from the funds, which are intended to lead to such cooperation. I also do not challenge Article 8 of the Agreement or the Rules of Procedure on the operation, but experience is somewhat different. On 17 May last year, you adopted positions at the Government which speak only of civil dialogue with NGOs. These are no longer views on cooperation with NGOs. What you have also said about how well everything is regulated by the degree of coordination of the cooperation of non-governmental organisations cannot be confirmed because, as an opposition Member, I find that, as a rule, the comments of non-governmental organisations, on all the key issues where NGOs have a different experience than the Government, are not accepted and are not harmonised. Last but not least, the Ombudsman points out that the right of non-governmental organisations to participate should be legally laid down for laws which concern non-governmental organisations. All these are the reasons why, with your reply, the Minister-designate, I cannot be satisfied and I believe that the degree of coordination and the level of civil society [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u67	Thank you. At the beginning of my mandate, I received in my hands a draft agreement between the Government and NGOs prepared by NGOs, which was the basis for coordination or negotiation during the previous government's term of office. Everything was written in this agreement. I am afraid that no one has read this agreement critically on the government side at that time and that it may have been just that someone has signed this agreement and taken pictures with non-governmental organisations, because this agreement could not have been implemented with such content. Among other things, it stated that we would change a whole set of laws regulating the status of NGOs. In our view, that is not necessary. We have legislation in the field of non-governmental organizations, we have the Social Act, we have the Institution Law - in short, we have legislation that offers even a range of status forms and I don't know why we should do business needlessly, create work if things are arranged. One part of this agreement included employment in the non-governmental sector. I believe that it is not a matter of the Government's employment in the non-governmental sector, but it is certainly a matter of the Government's financial assistance, as far as possible, to NGOs, that they can strengthen their activities and, through this, also employ workers who help to realize their mission. That is why we have focused the main part of our work in this area on raising funds and taking advantage of the opportunity offered by the European Structural Funds. In short, I have absolutely no bad news in the field of the Government's activities for NGOs. On the contrary. I think that we have done what is most important to them - we have obtained money from European funds that enable them to develop properly. However, with regard to the consideration of non-governmental organisations and civil society in general in regulatory procedures, I recognize that not everything is ideal in this area and I recognise that there is a regulation going through the procedure in a manner which may not be acceptable, any civil society comment which could be taken into account or at least rejected. This is happening, but I think that we have made important progress by putting this standard of quality in the rules of procedure and by actually establishing some control in this area for the first time in history. Our ministry - a relatively small team, but an expert and capable review, checks every regulation from this point of view: whether it contains bureaucratic obstacles and cleans it up, and also from the point of view of whether it has been coordinated with civil society. And how many times have we stopped the procedure and said to the department: "Stop. There you have a non-governmental organisation that wishes to comment. And until you sit with them and try to negotiate, this regulation will not get our consent." Of course, I say it again at the end, but I'm not saying that everything is perfect.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u68	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u69	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the response of Minister Virant to the question of the question. It is not any dissatisfaction, but it is a dissatisfaction associated with a large number of organisations or with the good work of civil society, not least with the report of the Ombudsman, which she proposed in a few laws - from her own experience, after seeing what is happening to the government's understanding of the civil dialogue that has been achieved - to hold such a debate. I agree with you, Mr Minister, that the acquisition of funds from the Structural Funds is an important achievement, but not least, everywhere in the world, the proportion of NGOs for the executive branch of the authorities feels like a complement and a good replacement. But the question is, if that's the case, why did every attempt to integrate the relationship between non-governmental organisations and the government into laws fail, individual laws. You're saying it's settled. We've discussed some of the laws. When we explicitly proposed to the opposition Members and Members that the law should be the one to determine the relationship, we were unable to determine that. You mentioned different forms of organised civil society. I agree with you. Recently, in public opinion, it has been possible to read how NGOs experience different treatments. Two non-governmental, important humanitarian organisations have been treated in a completely different way as regards their relationship with the State, the payment of taxes or contributions. It is very systemic things that would be good to examine in one place, and therefore I think that such a debate could be useful because I do not object to your ministry that you have ever listened to the comments of NGOs when the ministries have failed. I'm not hiding that. But perhaps such a general discussion would be an excellent opportunity to at least examine what can be done at the end of the mandate if you say that no one has critically reviewed what remains in the 2004 legacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u70	Thank you. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs is absent, so the question of the question will be sent by the mag. Majde Potrat and Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš responded to the next meeting of the assembly. About the procedural proposal of mags. The expenditure will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the votes. Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak will answer Mr Saš Pečet's question about the impact of privatisation. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u71	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Member Saš Pečet's question was: "What will be the further policy of the competent ministries in view of the situation in the economy, with emphasis on privatisation, ownership and transfers and the impact of such work on employment policy and on the employer-employee relationship? The government has adopted a series of strategic approaches in the area of privatisation. It has adopted strategic directions for the withdrawal of the Capital Company and the Slovenian Compensation Company and the transformation of their investments into portfolio investments. It also identified the strategic investments they have and does not recommend a rapid withdrawal. The government has also adopted a series of strategic documents on the issue of the withdrawal of countries from energy, telecommunications, banking and insurance. So the strategy is clear and everything has not been changed since then, so we have continued with some procedures. The process of finding a strategic partner for Telekom is well known, including the Capital and Compensation companies have turned a fairly good share of investment into better investments in their portfolio and thus weighed between, on the one hand, their portfolio and, on the other hand, the development future of these companies, where they withdraw. I would like to stress very much that one of the key criteria, the key criteria for selecting potential buyers, is their developmental perspective on society alone, on employees. In short, in addition to maximising the purchases, I believe that this development component is even more important when privatising or withdrawing the country from the economy. We have always paid attention to this and have also devoted a great deal of negotiation to the search for the most appropriate offer. It would be worth noting that not all offers are acceptable and that is why some have not been accepted. If future customers are to be selected, this development aspect will be one of the central and also key parameters and criteria for the effectiveness and acceptability of this offer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u72	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u73	Thank you very much for your answer so far. I would like to point out, simply because of the clarity of the Members and Members present, the transformation of investments, in other words, this means the sale of investments. In fact, this means that our country, six months before the elections, approaches to the sale of more than 200 investments or, in other words, enterprises that have so far been owned by the state. Now the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of only the Minister of Vision, will sell the known and clear strategy. At the proposal of the Government, the National Assembly adopted strategies and resolutions on the protection of culture, the promotion of educational levels, the promotion of environmental protection, health and similar things. The National Assembly has not once adopted any strategy or was informed of any strategy in the field of the sale of State property, which the Court and Kad adopted on the basis of the expert commission - and I think that in 2006 - adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the correspondence meeting. From this place I would like to point out, Mr Vizjak is very nice, according to my assessment in the school way, to say what must be the two basic orientations of each sale, that is to say, maximisation of the purchase price, that the country should get as much and, finally, the issue of the credibility of the individual buyer as possible. But, Mr. Vizjak, if we look at one of the last sales made, the NKBM, i.e. the Maribor Credit Bank, we see that the purchase was not maximized, even more so that the purchase in the week following the completion of the IPO jumped by almost 50% within the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. Well, we can't talk about maximizing the purchases here. On the other hand, the customer's question is not, given that customers were mostly institutional investors who were hiding in the Bahamas and the remaining "offshores", so I ask you: Have you ever checked the alleged link between buyers, the Bahamas and the Slovenian Week and the Friday family that is supposed to influence development through this way? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u75	Thank you very much. In accordance with the competences of the National Assembly, the Ordinance on the sale of State property is adopted, that is to say, as part of the budget, also all the investments that the Republic of Slovenia sells. Of course, this includes investments that the Government or the ministries have with them. The plan of the development programmes does not cover the investments of the Capital Society and the Slovenian Compensation Society, but I must make it very clear that the Government has accepted this as a very transparent document, unlike all previous governments in mid-2006 and it is not true, that I strongly deny that any sales procedures in the last year or in the last period, as this refers to elections, would intensify. On the contrary, we believe that so far, according to two years of respect for these key orientations, the country's withdrawal plan has been carried out in a transparent manner, in line with these strategic guidelines, and I am advising any urgency in particular in the situations that today rule in the capital market, when we know how it is with the Slovenian stock index and with the value of certain shares. On the contrary, I therefore believe that the Government will be even more cautious in its decisions to withdraw the country from individual ownership shares of companies. Well, he's not afraid of any intensification. On the contrary, it is particularly a matter of greater caution, as we have recently expressed by refusing to sell off the state stake in Telekom. As far as the New Bank of Maribor is concerned. Finally, the government once exceeded some consistent practice of selling shares with some further choice, as we had in the case of Bank Koper, New Ljubljana Bank, but we also allowed Slovenian citizens to have some of the created assets in the Republic of Slovenia and the price that was set was the price based on the evaluations made for this by credible operators. It was carried out as well as the examination of all customers, in particular well-educated investors. So, I reject any irregularity in this business, in this process, and most of all, in economics.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u76	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I raised my hand too low. Mr. Minister, to facilitate communication, the state of the stock exchange is called the state of the bear. But I would like to point out that I find your answer very misleading. On the one hand, you say that the country is pursuing two goals, the first purchase and the second credibility of the buyer. In the case of sale of one of the investments, you say that, of course, this is no longer the case. Now, I ask you to decide whether the country is selling for the sake of the social unit, that the citizens will receive something or sell for the maximum of the budget revenue. I believe that neither one of us is wrong, but let's stay in the same positions and the same vats for everyone. Secondly, what I would like to point out, which is a very misleading decision on the sale of state and real property that has been exposed, is followed together in its content by thirty investments, which are being sold and no more. [[...]] While the sale concluded by the Government within the framework of the Court and Kad, remember that you have been made by an expert committee on the Government and that you have given it to the Court and Kad, there is a record of the government meeting [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u78	Mr. Pece, you're opening up new questions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u79	No, Mr. President, my question is on the list of papers where I am [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u80	I don't know, I'm gonna have to give the minister a chance to answer them again.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u81	That's exactly what I'm offering through a procedural option. I would like to point out and to conclude, of course, I would like to ask the National Assembly, with your assistance, Mr Minister, for a debate in which you can participate mainly in order to ensure that the country sells, if it sells, healthy and smart logic. It only sells once and never again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u82	Thank you. Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak will now answer Mr Bojan Kontic's question regarding the Hemmoelectrica Šostanj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u83	Yes, I am pleased with the frequent questions of Member Kontič on the topic of an important energy facility and entity in the Republic of Slovenia, this is the Termoelectrica Šostanj and, of course, Block 6, which is one of the key development projects of this government, including the holding of the Slovenian power plant and the Termoelectrica Šostanj as a subsidiary within the framework of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding. Finally, we were able to explain everything about this investment as part of a meeting of the municipal council of Velenje last week, where the first man of the Directorate of Energy was also present, Dr. Igor Shalamun and one of the directors of the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, Dr. Jože Zagožen. However, however, very exact to your questions. So the pre-contract provides key hardware and electrical equipment is concluded and the main contract will be concluded in 2008. This is the question: "When will the actual construction begin?" Building on the basis of a building permit will start in 2010. Question: "Who's going to be the investor?" The investor will be the thermal power plant of Šostanj. It is known that the thermal power plant Šostanj is 100% owned by the Slovenian Power Plant Holding and that the entire project is under the auspices of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding. "What will be the power?" The block's nominal power is 600 megawatts and 545 megawatts on the block's threshold.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u84	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Contic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. It is true that since I asked the question of the Member States and to this day we have learned some new facts. Time is running so fast that even at this time, I believe, they could have done it for Block 6 at the Chestnut plant. But good. If we look at the matter from a very optimistic point of view, of course, all the assurances that you are providing are sufficient at this point to allow optimism to mature into the projected investment of Block 6 of Thermal Power Plant Šostanyj. At that time, however, quite a few claims were made. One of your claims was that the opposition at the local level is causing damage. While I wonder how the opposition can cause damage to investment or to a decision taken by the Government, which is included in the national development programme, and which was only a question of how to capitalise, for example, remains open and we have not yet heard the answer. Now they say the month of April 15th will be the final date when we know that too. The introduction said that construction would be completed in 2012. We are now talking about 2014. So there are a few things that change and require an answer. That is why I would like to answer this question. So, you told me when the investment would start. I would like to hear the answer to the question: When will the investment end? and, of course, "In what way will you recapitalise or recapitalize the TEC to be able to manage this investment?"
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u87	Dear Member, when I thought that the greatest harm could be done by politicising this professional energy issue, I meant it seriously. In fact, I know an energy project that fell on the referendum because of this. Just remember all the TET 3. Yeah, yeah, and I'm afraid that this way might be the best way for this project to go down. So please, let us work together to the benefit of this project. Once again, if with these government assurances that this investment will also occur, I don't know, constantly with various activities to heat up and create dilemmas and even divisiveness around this project, then it is not excluded that this project can also happen. [[...]] Why? Also because of what you suggest here: "Where does the asset come from?" The funds must come from economic circles, as this is an economic project. Today, energy is not something to be provided through public funds, it can be a pilot project here and there. I believe that the Termoelectric power plant of Šostanj is able to operate on a completely economic basis in the future and you mention it yourself. Do you know, when you say, if it comes to such ideas that we do it with public funds, someone will ask in Slovenia: or indeed, and this is how one story has already happened in Slovenia and it has fallen and I do not want this to happen to Block 6, which I believe, I stress once again that it is a good project to exploit domestic primary energy, that it is also very important in the social, economic sense of the Valley, and I support it with all my will. But I don't want to hurt him, so today I warn you again, please, let's work together for the good of this project, and I believe that you want to do the same, and I believe that we will find a way to succeed. Why, in some ways, does he not yet know the specific financial structure? Because you don't know how much this project's gonna cost. Today there are no contracts for the supply of equipment, no idea what the price of hardware and electrical equipment for this facility will be, and there is no hero to indicate the financial structure if the basic elements of this structure are unknown. However, I guarantee you that in the framework of the strategic guidelines for the privatisation of energy adopted by the Government in 2006 [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u88	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree that it is necessary to work together on such large projects. I myself have had experience in the previous Parliamentary call when you and your, like, party colleagues reached a referendum and achieved that the actual matter had been politicized to the end and also at the end of the referendum had fallen. Your answers convince me that it is really necessary to work together on this project and that this project needs to be discussed, including in the National Assembly, and therefore my proposal to hold a discussion on the answer under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2. As far as I am aware, the Economic Committee will also be convened to discuss these issues and I think that the date of April 15 which you have somehow asked yourself will be the same, in order to find the answers to all these questions. That we can work together, let me mention in particular, or what you mentioned yourself. There has been an extraordinary meeting of the Council of the Municipality of Velenje, and there have been no political differences at this meeting regarding the investment in the Termoelectric power plant of Šostanj, regardless of the client, whether on a state level, in the government coalition or in the opposition or perhaps not even in Parliament, Slovenia. We have unanimously adopted all the conclusions and these conclusions are very clear. The Municipality of Velenje supports the construction of a new technological and ecological standard for the design of the thermal energy facility. We propose to the Government that it be assured from the holding company that such a price of electricity produced will be created to ensure the proper economic situation of both companies in the Shaleška Valley, both the Velenje Coal and the Šostanj Termoelectrica, to conclude a protocol or agreement on how to address the negative effects of the companies in question on infrastructure facilities and on the environment, which will be concluded subsequently and will likely become an integral part of the business plans of those companies. To fully oppose privatisation, i.e. the sale of the Šostanj Thermoelectricarium, in the event of the recapitalisation you are talking about, we want to work together in a way that allows us to influence what recapitalisation will be like and when this recapitalisation will take place. And quality and affordable provision of heat to the local community. Despite this unity, the municipal council has taken this opportunity to request clarification from the host at the May session. So, I agree that we work together. All questions will need to be answered. But don't let the opposition know that it can, and maybe it's meant to bring down a project that we all actually support.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u90	Thank you. Now the Minister will answer Mr Boštjan Zagorec's question about the privatisation plan for state property. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u91	Mr Zagorec's oral question was: "The Minister responsible for the economy, I ask, what will be the next system or plan for the privatisation of state property?" [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] I have a record of state property. [[...]] Of course I got that. I can say that all the strategic documents that define the plan on this topic are already adopted. The decree on the sale of State property is adopted as an integral part of the budget documents. It therefore identifies the investments that the country intends to sell out through more detailed programmes in 2008 and 2009, and I would not tell you about it, as you have accepted it. As regards the sale plan for Kad and Sod, this plan has been adopted by the Government in the framework of the strategy in mid-2006, nothing changes and so we follow it. These are the key documents you're asking me about. This is a sales plan. However, it is true that the hands set out in this plan are the hands in which Kad and the Court carry out certain activities. They are looking on one side for a responsible new owner who has a development plan that wants to invest in this company, to develop it, to upgrade the conditions for workers, that is to say to expand jobs and also to raise the added value of any technology in individual companies. On the other hand, it is also a key criterion for selecting the purchase. One and the other conditions must also be met in the light of the information available to the Kad and the Court before the proceedings. The situation in the capital market has recently changed. I estimate that certain investments, in particular public listed companies, would be unwise to sell off at this time, because I believe that we can expect better conditions in some future period, as there have been better conditions, as we know that we have fluctuations that are also globally caused. As a result, the government, as well as the Ministry of the Economy, will continue to make a gradual, transparent and economic withdrawal of the country from the economy in our responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! Indeed, the question I addressed to you was as you interpreted it, but not because of my guilt, because of the fault of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The fact is that I raised the question in concrete terms: how will the Government react to the divestment of state property when it comes to Paloma? "So this National Assembly has told me that it is a company of a local character, despite the fact that the state has 70.97% of its assets in it through Kad and Sod, and that you will not want to answer such a question. That's why I designed it. But if we go back to the decision taken by this National Assembly. Dear Mr. Secretary! Part of this decree is also the company Paloma from the Sweet Summit. We both agree. And it says in this decree that the state will sell this company as -- I'll say, an investment -- that has to be sold because there's nothing serious going on there. I don't know what's going on there or what's not happening. I trust you'll be very happy to answer me. But there are some very strange things going on. If we take that state property is property not of you, not of me, not of Janša and not of this government, but of citizens and citizens in this country. And with this property, we need to work very carefully. That is why I am interested, as part of the decree, in Paloma Sweet Top: What is your vision of selling it because you have already included it in this company's decree as an integral part of the decree? I haven't changed anything. We're still on the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u95	Of course you've changed. You have added one concrete project, but I am happy to respond to it. Why? Because Paloma is undoubtedly one of the most important economic operators and very much at the blow of the media and the opposition. I think we need to get to the bottom of all eyes. Therefore, an extraordinary audit has also been ordered. Any convictions without evidence are, of course, irresponsible work and possibly comfortable from the opposition's title. However, it is irresponsible of those who are also responsible for the consequences. I believe that, as with other investments in the country, this investment is also crucial to the withdrawal of the country, what will be the future fate of the company and its employees. Therefore, when selling or withdrawing, we follow this as the most important objective. And I am sure that this country's investment will not happen unless the relevant offers regarding the further development of the Paloma system, as well as the related jobs, are not on the table. So, this - what and how Paloma is very important to the Republic of Slovenia in the future, as well as to both or the owners of this investment, which is owned indirectly by the State. In particular, both parastatal funds and the Government are participating in the divestment of this share, as they do so in a coordinated manner as with other investments. I believe that through all the procedures we will follow these principles, which I have already mentioned: developmental orientation, economy, transparency and correctness of these procedures, and responsible assessments of potential offers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u96	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Zagorac? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u97	I'm going to re-form it just in the beginning. In accordance with the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like an extended discussion on the divestment of State property, in particular on the divestment of Paloma Sweety summit. Minister, you said you were treating this company as an important part of state property. I don't know who you're trying to fool. Don't act like it. The people who live there and most of the people who live there are employees of this company. You know what they say, don't fight tycunization, fight "bayukinization." That's their story. You know, this company is too intertwined politically for you to answer me and this honourable assembly to treat it responsibly. You're talking about selling out this company, you've already wanted it twice - to whom? Some related companies for which.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u98	Mr. Zagorac, this is no time for controversy and new insights. I will be in trouble again, or I will be forced to give the Minister the floor to respond directly to new findings.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u99	These aren't new findings. This is essentially an explanation of why I demand that the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u100	Or turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u101	had to deal with this fact. [[...]] Regardless, Mr President, you can also take the floor for me, but you will take the word of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, whose ownership we are talking about. If that's what you want, do it! Take my word, take the word of men! As you wish, the decision is yours. I'm just saying what this government, what this minister is talking about -- not Minister Visiak, but Minister Bajuk -- is doing with state property. But you take my word, if you will, your wish! Once again, the facts, the evidence that they also have at the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy show that the revision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u102	Mr. Zagorac, you've been warned twice. I turned off your microphone for the third time. The following Member, who will be answered by Mr Minister, or who still owes an answer, is Dr Mitja Slavinec. Mr Minister, please answer his question regarding measures to help labour-intensive enterprises.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and various ministries, as well as the parastatal funds as owners, we have both business in the labour intensive sectors and other measures to improve their competitiveness, so how to enable their further development and business. And even when they get into some trouble, how to help them get out of trouble, or that they have some kind of correctional exam, if for such and other reasons the company gets into trouble. And we do not have specific measures for labour intensive industries, because we have universal measures for all. I am particularly pleased that the Government has managed to focus its efforts and assistance on development projects in this mandate. This is said to be a project that strengthens competitiveness, strengthens technological development, strengthens the innovation of these companies and reduces the means to address the worst when a particular undertaking is in such a situation that it needs state intervention to ensure its long-term existence. Indeed, these State aid to firms in difficulty are very regulated. They're only available once every ten years. So one state aid has to help. As long as one State aid does not help, the other is no longer available and the company is in disrepute. So we have three sets of possible concrete aid schemes. For the first time, aid to businesses is in trouble. On the basis of the criteria defined by the law, the company is recognised as a company in difficulty. A restructuring programme needs to be put in place. The program must offer some long-term survival. This restructuring programme is evaluated and certain funds are also reserved for this purpose in the State budget. Another way is also possible in the form of recapitalisation. In fact, some companies owned by the State or by the parastatal funds are in trouble. Whether or not they have the need for development funds and in this case the State may decide and increase as owner. This is said to be recapitalised by new fresh financial resources of this company. This is usually done by other owners. This ensures the necessary money for the new future, the development of the company. The most important part, however, is the development aid we have seen in the last period. So, in two, three years. In particular, the new financial perspective has significantly increased. These are development aids that strengthen investment in enterprises that strengthen technological development, which strengthen cooperation between companies and businesses with knowledge institutions for new products, new technologies. We therefore want to increase the added value to the employee, increase the competitiveness and development of individual economic operators. Therefore, it is very important that an undertaking that is either in the labour intensive sector or in a sector that is more capital intensive to have a very clear vision of where and what its future is, where are those concrete projects it intends to bet in the future. At that time, part of the means to achieve these objectives, such development visions can also be provided by the State through calls or in the other two forms that I have mentioned. The State or Government is not the one to write company development projects. Companies are the ones, the managers, the authorities of companies that adopt development visions and also the appropriate financial structures to cover only these. In any case, the Government wants, including the Ministry of Economy, to be part of development projects and to support the development projects of these companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u104	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. In my explanation, Mr Minister, I have said that these companies are now in increasing difficulty due to measures, anti-inflation measures. When we took those new measures to reduce people's social vulnerability there, of course, we caused new problems to this company and, worst of all, we caused the most problems to the companies I'm talking about. Work-intensive companies. As a result, my question was as follows: Does the government know that your ministry is aware of these new problems that we have caused and how does it intend to react? Look, when the Prime Minister was two and a half years ago, almost three years ago in Pomurje, he predicted that Pomurje would, if he could - go to the case that I told Mura earlier - that Pomurje would get more money than during the previous government. You are now referring to the fact that the 12 million Euros that the government then earmarked for restructuring Mura have been sealed for ten years. Look, we've changed this National Assembly on the proposal of this government to a very large number of laws to the detriment of the state. Let us give another law to benefit the employees. That'll do you good. That'll be worth it to the government, and it'll be worth it to the state. Why do I say that? As long as you are silently watching companies fail to fail with 4,000 workers, you will therefore have a very large deficit in the tax budget. You will have a very large budget deficit under additional burdens for unemployment benefits. And finally, it will be very difficult for the company to recover. That is why I have asked you this question and now I have again explained it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The government has not taken any measures to reduce the competitiveness of labour-intensive industries. On the contrary. With the same gross wages, we have increased net wages because we have introduced new tax reliefs for those with the lowest wages. On the contrary, honourable Member. We have burdened the taxpayers with the opportunity to pay higher net wages at the same cost of wages. This week you will probably have a debate in Parliament about the minimum wage, with which the gross amount of the minimum wage is aligned. This law is the fruit of an agreement between employers. And the workers and certainly a well-thought-out agreement between these and the people's rights are taken into account so that they are better paid, especially those with the lowest incomes, as well as, of course, employers' interests. It bothers me, however, to think that all of a sudden the Government is responsible for the poor business of economic operators and for constantly, for example, falling into the difficulties of some specific economic operators. That's not true! The authorities of the company, the administration, the supervisory board, the owners are responsible for the business of economic operators. The owners, through the administration and the authorities, are obliged to prepare programmes that enable the development of society and normal working conditions, including employee salaries. Dear Member, this is not the responsibility of any State and no government, but of economic operators and owners. Of course, the Government is competent and called upon to help businesses when they have clear development plans that lead businesses forward. In the company you mentioned, I have never observed any clear development plan. But I have noticed ideas about how the minimum wage problem for an economic society is. I heard how much that guy paid. It's not pay. I'm sure people in the labour-intensive sectors are underpaid. However, they are paid as much as the employer is able to pay. And unfortunately in some companies without vision, without development plans, there are problems here. Once again, the Ministry of Economy and the other ministries will cooperate with these companies and try to help in this way or another way. However, you mentioned the possibility of amending the law, which says that aid can be granted once every 10 years. This law summarizes the European Directive and cannot be amended without amending the European legal order of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u108	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. I have a procedural proposal to discuss this issue at the next meeting. Because, I think, not only is the question very important, but there are also different views. Different views on the issue itself and different perspectives on what certain measures in a particular economic society mean. You claim that the Government has not put these companies in a worse position than before with any measure. Obviously, then, you do not have the right information or are not fully aware of what a measure in practice means. That makes sense, too. This is also possible because it is difficult to predict in advance. But the information we get on the ground is just the opposite that these measures will burden Muro's particular company so much and so much more. Which means the loss is going to be so much and so much bigger. And look, if you want us to come together to find solutions, I am sure that you will also propose to your Members that we discuss this. The next reason why I propose that we have a broader debate on this subject is because some societies are in trouble because of the objective circumstances of the global market. Due to the objective circumstances of the global market. And if there is a problem with this, that in environments that are under-averagely developed, which are less developed, then, of course, these things are placed on each other. And why is the state’s concern for some companies nevertheless? I've already told you what it means to break a company this big. In certain environments, some companies are so large that they are not just companies, but they are simply institutions. And that's why the state can't shut its eyes. That is why we want to work together to find such a solution and, of course, also such measures as will allow us to minimize the damage that is ahead of us both for the employees and, of course, for the budget directly, for the failures that I have already talked about. And that is why, of course, I ask that you support my proposal for an extended debate and try to find solutions at the next meeting and, of course, that the Government will in the future also make such proposals that will preserve so many and so many jobs and, of course, companies that have objectively provided for faster and more successful development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you. Proposals for the State Assembly to hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the answers of the Minister for the Economy of Magi. Mr Andrej Visiak's questions on the Members' questions: Mr Peceta, Kontića, Zagorca and Dr Slavinca will decide on Thursday, 27.3., in the framework of the votes. We now turn to the questions raised by Dr. Lovr Šturm, Minister of Justice. I ask the Minister to answer first the question put by Mr Borut Saiovic regarding the backlog in the return of investments in the telecommunications network. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u111	Thank you for saying so and thank you for the question raised to the honourable Member regarding the payment of investments in the public telecommunications network. The total number of claims for recovery of investments is 38 000 130 cases. Of this, up to 25 February 2008 - this is said - a month ago, 34 thousand 451 cases were resolved. This means 90% of all claims. In 10 thousand,853 cases were settled. In the case of natural persons, the amounts are between €25 and €3,000. The total settlement reached so far is EUR 58 million 484 thousand 547 thousand. Since the end of 2006, the Ministry of Justice has continued to encourage the State Defence to resolve all matters as quickly as possible. To this end, we have also increased the systemisation of officials at the State Defence Office by 15 persons in November 2006. The numbers I've told you exactly enough say that applications are being successfully resolved. Of course, it can't put us to sleep. We will continue to encourage the State Defence to take all measures to help close all investments as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u112	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary and the Council of Ministers! Of course, I heard a big proverb once, a big lie. Then instead of the biggest lie, there was statistics. If someone listened to the detailed response of our distinguished Minister, I would really think that we have 90 % of the cases solved in Slovenia in the area of return on telephony. But the story is the other way around. Just like the denationalisation the Ministry wants to save within three months. When returning funds from the telephone, all group claims remain largely unresolved. And if we looked at how many people actually got the money back, how many there aren't, we'd see 90% of people are still waiting for that return. And it was those who trusted this system and invested funds and telephones to save collectively through municipalities, through individual local communities, and through village telephone committees. These demands, which are complicated, difficult, need more work and more effort. All these claims still stand in the defences of Slovenia more or less. By calling in the congregations on a daily basis, why an individual has received funds, even though he has invested and built a telephone for 10 years for those who have handled these matters by means of funds that were not large. I'd like to draw your attention to another aspect of this story. Inflation in Slovenia is, say, on average between 6% and 7%. The average return on property is around EUR 300. This means that the defences, the courts and this authority to each of these taxpayers every year from the pocket - we can say, take, but we can say - even steal, about €21. And since many applications have been delayed since 2006 and will obviously be late, we are, unfortunately, where we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u115	Thanks for this, too. I will not say, an additional question, an additional statement by the honourable Member. Let me say that the state's attorneys continue to deal intensively with the remaining claims. In most cases, which are still unresolved, there are claims that are also partially undocumented, which are sometimes unproven, which require a series of additional inquiries, including interviews. It is also necessary to attract experts and the like. Statements made in respect of notaries should also be subject to a substantive review. After all, the notary’s certification only proves that a certain person has made a statement. However, it does not confirm the content of the statement. The Ministry is also very committed to resolving all these claims as quickly as possible. We will continue - as I have already said - to encourage the State's defence to bring open procedures to an end.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Since I am not satisfied with the answer at all, I would like to make a procedural proposal in accordance with Article 246(2). Why is he going? It's a typical case of sweeping a problem that people don't like under the rug. On the contrary, another practice that we hear all too often in the adoption of laws in this National Assembly. Just encouraging and complaining will certainly not be enough in the defenses. There should be an increase in the number of employees who will be genuinely, legally and professionally involved in these problems and will also be adequately motivated financially. Otherwise, this recovery of the telephony fund will not be achieved in the next two or three years if we act at the same pace as it was. However, everyone in this country has been clearly and loudly promised that the hands, when we start and do this, are long gone. One of the instructional deadlines was November and December 2006. Just encouraging and complaining in the defenses is obviously not going to be enough. I expected a concrete answer from the Minister-designate, how many additional people have been employed in the defences. The vague system of return on the legislative line is not appropriate. See, now we are amending the Denationalisation Act to solve a handful of cases in Slovenia. But here we are waiting for 10,000 people to get their hard-earned and well-earned money back, and we are not taking any legal initiative and no change. If there is a time in the Office of the Defence that the system of return on public telecommunications is not sufficient, then I expect the Ministry of Defence to draw up a legislative proposal, I will be happy to support it, which will shorten and simplify the process. Otherwise, I also propose that the Ministry and the Defence Office introduce a telephone number free of charge, line 080, where many citizens from all Slovene municipalities will answer their questions and explain them. Otherwise, I come from a congregation where more than 10 applications have been submitted through local communities and committees, and none of these committees, which have been collective, has yet been called upon to improve, correct, supplement or otherwise improve their role. Simply, I think it is an unfair and incorrect distinction between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that those who have entered the last train will receive a return first. And there's more to this story. Therefore, of course, I ask that Thursday be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u118	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Sajovica, that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice to his question, will decide in the framework of the vote on Thursday, 27 March 2008. The Minister of Justice, Dr Lovro Šturm, will answer the question of Mrs Darje Lovtizar Bebler regarding the proposal for a novel of the Penal Code. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. Thank you, too, for the question with which honourable Member is interested, what will be the response of the Ministry to the public debate held when it presents its opinions on the Penal Code, which was held on 22 February 2008. Let us first see what this public debate was like. 41 panellists participated in the public presentation, of whom 28, about 70%, supported the proposal for a code. It should be noted that from the point of view of the professional public, only individuals from the Department of Criminal Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana and the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law objected to the proposal. Representatives of the Department of Criminal Law at the Faculty of Law of Maribor, representatives of the European Faculty of Law and also of the Faculty of Security Sciences supported the proposal of the Code. He was also supported by the only member of the Department of the Ljubljana Faculty of Law, who regularly worked as a regular professor at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. The words of support also came from all those who use the code in practice. Thus, in whole or in part in the public presentation of opinions, representatives from the types of judges, lawyers, representatives from the prosecution and the penologist supported the code. Certain additional proposals to the two articles of the proposal were also presented in the debate by the Members and Members present and others. These comments will be examined by the Ministry in the future and proposed in further consideration. Therefore, these comments will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Beblereva, would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Secretary! That's the answer I expected. I admit, you didn't surprise me in anything, but you didn't answer my questions either. More. I think that you have in some way abused that public presentation of opinions and views that we have also requested in the parliamentary group, and now by showing some statistics here you are trying to justify that this Penal Code nevertheless enjoys the support of the professional public. That's not true. I must confess to you, Mr Minister, that you have very thick skin when you really weigh your comments and serious warnings to all the criminal and legal professions did not hesitate in your decision to bring this Penal Code and just like it through the parliamentary legislative procedure. In doing so, you have not taken into account the minimum European standards that are in force in modern and democratic Europe with regard to the preparation of legislative drafts or legislation. One of these is the management of preparation, public debate, adoption and publication of laws, including a broad and in-depth consultation that would allow for the evaluation of the impact and consequences of a specific law, leading to greater stability of legislation. If there is, then it is undeniable in criminal law that revolutionary and reckless interventions are not permissible, that changes must also be internally coherent and that citizens and citizens must have the right to predictability of legal standards in this area. How will you achieve that all competent and involved will be effectively trained to implement the Penal Code on November 1st this year, as envisaged by the legislative proposal? There are still a number of questions that I cannot mention because of the lack of time. But that's scandalous, what's going on with this criminal thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u123	Thank you, too, for the additional question. I just can't change the numbers. Most supported the proposed Penal Code. That's an indisputable fact. I'm sure we'll be able to say a lot more about this tomorrow. Tomorrow is a general debate on this in the National Assembly. And let me put it this way. How to amend the amended old Yugoslav penal code, which is practically still in use in our legal system. The debates run in depth. Scientific discussions have been under way for 14 years. It's certainly not a topic that we're about to open up.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Dragutin Mate and Mr Lovro Šturm, Minister of the Interior, will answer the questions of mag. Majde Potrat in relation to the use of the electric paralyzer and Mr Miran Potč in relation to confidential documents and information. Mr. Minister Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. I am involved because I was not able to attend a meeting of the National Assembly last time because of obligations abroad. However, I would like to give a brief explanation of why and how it is introduced or, in the test application, the TASER X26 electric paralyser in the Slovenian Police. First of all, I must point out that the Ministry of the Interior regularly monitors, analyses and examines the use of police powers and the use of coercive means among them. Forcible means are the means by which police officers may, in accordance with the law, take certain measures against persons who are entitled to the use of such coercive measures. In recent years, an electric paralyser of various forms has been used as an up-to-date enforcer, which is lighter than the use of firearms. Technologically, this tool has advanced to a fairly high level and thus provides greater security for both those who use it and those against whom it is used. If we look at the studies and practical analyses published in the world regarding the use of electrical paralysers, we can quickly find that electric paralysers are means that provide greater security for both police and those against whom this coercive means is used. However, we need to know something clearly in this regard. This means that it is used in place of firearms or that it prevents the use of firearms. And there's no way we can talk about electric paralysers being used just like that, on the mind and without any conditions. The police shall, in their operational activities, continue to act in accordance with the minimum possible use of force. And if we're talking about the current state of test use of an electric paralyzer in the Slovenian Police, I can tell you that the test application took place in the Slovenian Police since 1. 6. 2006 to 31. 5. 2007 only in the Special Unit of the Slovenian Police. We have decided on this step because of the larger steps we have taken. During this time, police officers were equipped with electric paralyzers 10 times in their field interventions. In no case did the use of an electric stunner occur because there was no need. In all of these cases, police officers are special forces that have acted against extreme criminal associations or individuals in all their actions. In such cases, this unit shall also be used in accordance with tactics. And these individuals have never been used because with other coercive means available to the police, individuals were able to manage them and there was no need to do so. During this time, of course, we have collected further information on how this means to be carried out in the police of the European Union and beyond. I extended the test use of Taser X26 in the Slovenian Police Unit and in the Special Unit of the Slovenian Police for a period of up to 1. This year's 8th. At that time, police officers also use this tool in the individual actions they carry out in view of the assessment they make before each action, of course. To date, Taser or electric paralyzer has not been used in the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, I would like to make it clear that this is not a tool that could be used just like that. But it's a coercive means that the police would actually use instead of firearms. However, the consequences are, of course, significantly lower.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u128	Excuse me, excuse me. Mr. Minister Sturm, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. The new law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions does not provide for the use of an electric stabiliser. That is why we will not use it in Slovenian prisons. However, guards will continue to use other coercive means, including firearms, on the basis of the law, in such cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u130	Thank you. Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u131	Thank you. I can't say I'm just excited to use any means of death. The paralyser is also the one - pointed out by representatives of the NGO Amnesty International - which can cause death, even though it is considered a milder force than a weapon of fire. I also know there are at least two basic types of stunners. The one that's used remotely and the one that's used nearby. I would not ask this question again if it were not for the Law on the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions to have warned me that it had foreseen the use of a paralyser for the so-called police in prisons and in courts. It was precisely the comments of NGOs and the public that forced the Minister of Justice to withdraw the proposed use of the coercive measure. However, this suggests that sometimes the public can influence the decisions of the Minister of Justice. This was already the case when I asked an oral question, and I announced that it was, in fact, the domain of the Minister of the Interior to answer that question. I have now learned that the trial period has been extended until 1 August of this year. However, it is unusual that, given the cooperation between the different ministries, the use of a paralyser has been envisaged, although the trial period has not yet expired. And I'm sure the Ministry of the Interior has already had a report from the special group on what this special group for the use of a paralyser is thinking. It would certainly show more attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u133	I'm sorry, but I didn't quite hear the question, because it was essentially the facts you described. However, I might add two sentences that we are in the Slovenian Police or that I have ordered further use or further testing of the electric paralyser for a further period precisely because it has never been used in practice. Physically used despite the fact that members of a special unit had this equipment with them and carried out certain arrests throughout the country. Otherwise, it must be made very clear that the police have the authority to use coercive means. These coercive measures are legally defined, prescribed. They know exactly when they can be used. No one is happy to use these funds. The most drastic force device the police can use is a weapon of fire. Firearms are used every so long. The result is death, of course, almost. In recent years, we have witnessed some such events. And a paralyser is a means that is nicer than a gun and tries to attack an attacker who, under certain conditions, attacks an official. In short, it is used in place of firearms under legal conditions. Only under such conditions, if at any time a paralyser is introduced into regular use in units of the Slovenian Police can it be used and in no other cases. However, the possibility of using this asset in another law as a draft law is a legitimate right of the Minister to decide whether or not to withdraw this remedy or such a proposal. The test application itself does not directly affect that no such proposal could be made in the draft law itself. For we already have some experience in this regard, and we know how this means being used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We are also moving on to the question of the Member of Mr Miran Potrč concerning confidential documents and information. Mr. Minister Mate, Minister Dr. Sturm, you'll have to change your mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u135	Thank you for the question raised by the honourable Member on the so-called leakage of confidential documents in the human resources process against the leaders of construction companies. For in this matter there has been a charge already in advance that these documents have come to light by the judicial authorities, which the Ministry of Justice has denied immediately. Let me say that we then asked the Attorney General of State, Mrs Barbara Brezigar, for an explanation. It follows from the reply received that in criminal proceedings against construction firms, after the prosecution of known information, the document is shown on TV screens when a copy of the request for investigation was made publicly in this case by the District Court's investigating judge in Ljubljana, a state prosecutor from a group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime, that it is a document which is not marked by any degree of secrecy. That's the first one. The copy of the request for an investigation made on TV screens is not identical to the copy found on the prosecution's website. There are no references on the copy shown on the TV screens on the Prosecutor's copy of the request. However, a copy of the State Prosecutor's Office contains a record of the investigating judge who confirmed the receipt of the request for an investigation at 8:30 p.m. This entry is not available on the copy shown on the TV screens. It's the DA's day, 13. 2. 2008 17 copies of the request for investigation were handed over to the examining magistrates on duty. One copy for the court, 16 copies for defendants and their supporters. The State Prosecutor has not submitted the request for an investigation to anyone else. And so the press didn't get a request for an investigation from the D.A. Let me say that the state prosecutors in the case and also act in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act and in accordance with their professional ethics. A specific document may not affect the course and results of the criminal procedure. I reiterate that the request for an investigation has not come to the press from the prosecution and there is no basis for any internal verification of the conduct of the staff of the prosecution in connection with this event. The request for an investigation was also not forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana. The competent state prosecutor's office applied for an investigation before the competent court on 13.2.2008. The seven suspects and their supporters were served on the same day. One suspect and his advocate, who was subsequently interrogated, were served with a request for an investigation later. The investigating judge prepared the document immediately after receipt on 13 February this year by signing the request. In the media, the copy is identical to the secondary copy of the request for investigation received by the parties to the proceedings and is not identical to the one available to the prosecution. Not even the one the court's got. In this case, it is not either a data leak by the State Defence or by the Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. Minister Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u137	I would not like to explain to the Member long and wide what the criminal procedure is saying and how all these investigations are ongoing, because I am sure that, given his education, he knows this very precisely. I would only explain that at the moment when the police hand over the hearings to the prosecution - if we're talking about hearings - and with criminal charges, all these documents lose their degree of confidentiality under the Secret Information Act. At that point, they don't have this degree anymore. That is why the claim stated here by Minister Sturm is, in fact, exact. As soon as the prosecution has submitted these documents to the court, these documents no longer have the right to bear the degree of confidentiality. However, he or she has the right to be informed, in accordance with the criminal procedure of the suspect and his/her counsel, of all the facts described in these files, and has the right to examine and copy the files. Transcribing files also involves photocopying and making extracts from the electronic means on which these documents are made. The police are no longer in criminal proceedings from the moment they hand over all the documents to the prosecution. It is not involved in criminal proceedings and does not have any of these documents. So the document you mentioned didn't come to the police. He's not a recipient and he doesn't have it. That's why the police didn't. The police couldn't leak that information. Consequently, there is no need to initiate an investigation because the police do not have access to this document.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u139	Thank you very much. On the basis of the reply of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, they should believe that, at about the same time on two televisions, a public and private document appeared at the same time as a major media event of the arrest of certain directors of construction companies. And the statement by Mr SDS President that it is up to this party, namely, the SDS, whether or not it will pursue economic crime. We have allowed the possibility of a document that has been delivered either from the police or from the prosecution or from the judiciary to both televisions, because otherwise we can only believe in a pure naked case or perhaps a miracle. Since we do not believe in the latter, we have asked this question and the answer has been formally corrected and substantively misleading. Only from these institutions could this document come at the same time on both televisions. That's why we expected a proper investigation to be carried out. Mr Sturm believes that this investigation is not necessary because he believes that this could not have happened in the relevant institutions. We do not believe in such a case, and we do not believe in the Minister. This was one of the actions which allowed reasonable doubt that the conduct of these authorities was also politically motivated.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I can't give you my word, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u141	Let me just say this for a second.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u142	Mr. Secretary. If it were procedural, I could give you my word, so I can't give it to you. Excuse me. I really can.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u143	I thought I could do it myself, so I called right away. And let me say again briefly and briefly that I reiterate - neither by the prosecution nor by the court has this document come to the public. I told you this document was different. I also said that a larger number of these copies were handed over to other persons and that this is where the document came from. This has not happened on the part of the state authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mate may as well. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to respond to two statements that were finally made. First time. The claim was made that it was a politically motivated process. As far as I know and as far as I am concerned, the Commission for the Control of Intelligence Services, which also has jurisdiction over the supervision, the work of the criminal police, has come under control, including on this issue. It has carried out thorough monitoring and found that the offences related to these crimes have begun to be monitored and used by specific means, POMPSI - as we briefly call them - within the police far before any statement was made by any president of any party in public. The intensive police work in this regard began almost a year ago. They have obtained all the necessary documents to work in this area, by the Prosecutor's Office, by the court. Of course, that is why I cannot accept the claim made here that it is a politically motivated process. As far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, no doubt. This can be proved in various ways. At the same time, of course, I would like to say that it has also been said that it is a matter of deceiving. It's probably my colleague, the minister, and me, when we're talking about the fact that these data didn't come from our species. It is clear that this document, which has been published in public, has never been transmitted to the police. The police don't have it. However, it is and this is what the Member has forgotten to say that both suspects and their lawyers have this document. So we have a broader spectrum of those who had this document at their disposal, than just the state institutions that were mentioned - the prosecution and the court. So more people have access to this data. Four groups of people have access to this information: prosecutors, court, defendant or suspect and his lawyer. And within this, we need to look equally for who could, say, put this document potentially out. It's not about a document that has a code of secrecy. I have also made this very clear why and how, according to the law, the degree of secrecy ceases. Here too, Slovenian public must be very clearly presented with what it means to leak confidential, secret documents or documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I propose that we decide to hold a debate in the National Assembly on the response of the two ministers for at least the following reasons: First, to find out that I have not claimed it, but I have allowed the possibility of a politically motivated publication of such behaviours, not the politically motivated conduct of the police. Secondly, to establish that both ministers did not say that any investigation would have been carried out in both ministries. I take it that the Ministry of the Interior may not have been necessary, because this was my question, which I did not get a clear answer to, at least not from the Minister of Justice. Thirdly, we probably know that there is also a possibility of having a political interest in how certain behaviours are displayed by the authorities governing the proceedings. This would not have happened for the first time because it had already happened, even with the special activity of the Minister of the Interior. That is why I was justified in asking such a question, and I expect the debate to clarify these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u148	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Porč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice to his question on the matter, the State Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Thursday, 27 March 2008. Mr Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance, will answer Mrs Majde Shirca's question about the RTV contribution. I understand that Mrs Ambassador is not in the Chamber. If you'd like, Mr. Secretary, you can answer. I warned you that Mrs. Ambassador is not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. At its 152nd meeting, on 27 December 2007, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted, on a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs, a plan for regulating regulated prices for 2008 and 2009. The question raised by the Member is the question raised by the Minister of Culture, Dr Simoniti, and me, as regards any reduction. I just want to say very briefly that the plan adopted for 2008 and 2009 does not provide for any change concerning the television contribution. However, I would also like to say that any problems that RTV Slovenia is supposed to have, that contributions are not the only source, that there are actually other sources, such as market activity, which is otherwise limited. Then the appropriations are alone and the grants and the funds. However, there are also RTV Slovenia balance sheets, where it is clear that in their business reports they also have capital investments that could cover, in the event of a possible deficit, the necessary financial investments or the long-term investments in which they are currently involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the question of Members and Members of Parliament first round! That is, Mr Minister of Finance and Minister of Economy will be asked a question by Mr Matjaž Han. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u151	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President! Honorable Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian development policy has fallen into the trap of global development challenges. In particular, the last mandate marked accelerated borrowing and investment mainly in those segments that did not bring development other than the motorway cross, which brought indirect development. Therefore, for the further development of the Slovenian economy, it remains a cruel fact that at the expense of unnecessary investments in various glass palaces and similarly decreases the share intended for research and development in gross domestic product. That Slovenian development policy is indeed a trap, I also see from the fact that Slovenia is not making progress in various international research that measures the competitiveness of countries and the attractiveness of their environments. However, this mandate was a great opportunity for some reserves to be created in the event of high economic growth, or for some activities to improve the situation in the light of international competitiveness, but the Government preferred to share Slovenian silver among the types of supporters of this policy and this government. And if I add to economic growth the statement made by the former minister in this government for the development of Mr Jožet P. Damjan, who says, quote: "economic growth and favourable public finances simply happened to the government as a fat potato to a stupid farmer." End of quote. This was the source of the Lens Log. The problem of changing tax policies is the instability of the business environment, making it increasingly less attractive to domestic and foreign investment. Another problem is that such tax policies act against development. This is certainly the case with the abolition of the promotion of investment, which has particularly affected small economies and businesses or craftsmen. When the Social Democrats adopted the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, we have repeatedly warned the Government that the removal of investment incentives will have a negative impact on economic growth and development. This is already known today because economic growth has lost its edge and has begun to calm down constantly. At the same time, the economy and people are still facing the problem of inflation. Even more importantly, when adopting tax packages, we have also proposed to the Government the introduction of regional R & D facilities to promote more coherent regional development. These proposals were also rejected. Therefore, Minister Bajuk, I ask you, of course, if you have any analysis: How much investment has been reduced in the past year due to the abolition of tax reliefs and how much will result in a fall in economic growth in 2008 and 2012 due to the denial of aid for the development of the economy in the field of tax relief? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u153	Thank you very much. On the contrary, honourable Member. There were 17% more investments in 2007 compared to 2006, including investments in equipment. So, judging by this, of course we can't see the correlation between tax incentives and investments in this, because investment was record-breaking and economic growth in 2007 was record-breaking. I'm surprised how you concluded that. So it's 17% more investment, not less. That's the first thing. Another thing that's very important to understanding. Indeed, tax reliefs for investments in both real estate and equipment are non-selective. Which means that someone can enforce it, whether it's an added value to technological development or not. Therefore, the Ministry of the Economy has significantly increased incentives, both grants and loans, the co-financing of interest rates and the like, into business development plans through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and through a number of calls. We've introduced new forms. So, invitations to company development and research projects, where we encourage the integration of businesses with knowledge institutions in terms of new products, new technologies. In short, in terms of increasing competitiveness. So the approach is to target those projects and help them even more than before. Tax reliefs that, in short, bring progress, technological development. Also through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which co-finances the technological equipment of small and medium-sized enterprises, we have significantly increased the funds. As a result, I note that this yields fruit, that it also allows economic growth, that it has also led to a significant increase in investment, not a decline, an increase in investment in the future. Of course, the Slovenian economy is an over-average open economy and will also feel some sort of situation in the European and global market in the future. That is why we are looking forward to a calming of economic growth, according to forecasts. But not because of the decline in investment. Mainly due to the export or participation of our companies in foreign markets.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am indeed surprised at this claim that the Government or the Ministry of Finance does not support or encourage investment in the economy. That's obviously incorrect. And I will use the same words as we have heard in the previous question that this is misleading. Indeed, changes in corporate income taxation have provided conditions for increasing competitiveness and economic growth. The general tax rate has decreased. From what we have received, from the previous so-called self-proclaimed government of 25%. The first one was on the 23rd. It's 22, this year 2008. With 1. 1. 2010 will be 20%. Thus, in the field of corporate income taxation, in 2007 a number of new or amended solutions that provide a transparent and stable tax environment were in place to ensure the elimination of economic and legal double taxation of income. They ensure the legal security of taxpayers, thus exposing the fundamental conditions for investing new capital and direct investment in the national economy. The interest in domestic capital being diverted to countries is decreasing, as was the case in previous tax legislation. Remember, the capital gains tax that we accepted, which they then had to change at the beginning of our mandate. That's exactly what we've achieved, and we've created that. However, in order to have its effects, clear data are provided by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Investments increased by 17% in 2007. And not only that, you've been talking about making it easier for R & D. This relief is introduced in the corporate income tax, 20% for all and then on the basis of a proposal proposed by the Government in this National Assembly, which was also adopted, the European Commission also allowed us to go to 30% and 40% for development research in areas in Slovenia where economic growth is low and there is an obvious gap. So I don't think this claim actually holds. Unfortunately, I still don't have the corporate tax data in 2007. We'll get this in the coming weeks, and I'll be happy to give it to you. But I can tell you what happened in 2006 for research and development.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Han
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Now, I was expecting an answer. And sometimes I don't understand whether we live in the same country or not. But let's just leave it. Speaking of new investments, greenfield investments, I don't remember any new investment coming into Slovenia in the last two years when you say you have a nice environment for entrepreneurs. But I don't understand you, Mr. Secretary, why you don't respond to the initiative of craftsmen and entrepreneurs on the issue of investment facilitation, because the elimination of these tax incentives is certainly the most damaging to craftsmen and entrepreneurs who do not already have enough resources for various developments to do research. We know that it means buying a new machine, buying the new basics the most that can be done, and you have also abolished this relief. So I ask you, Mr. Secretary, in terms of this work as well: What will be the economic growth below this Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u159	The honourable Member and the mayor, if it did not happen in Radeča, does not mean that there was no foreign direct investment in Slovenia, if that is what you had in mind. I'm very happy to mention, for example, one thing. This is the BSH in Nazareth, which, of course, made a new "green field" investment, and probably could even list them. We have also made a very precise report on foreign direct investment in the past period on the Committee on the Economy. So economic growth in the future, as announced by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which you could also read, is also the basis for all the budgetary documents - it will calm down slightly, given this record growth in 2007. Personally, as Minister of Economy, I expect about 5% to move in 2008. Although this is slightly more optimistic than the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis predicts. The office was still wrong down there, given what actually happened. This may also be due to a conservative planning policy. I also expect similar economic growth in the coming years. Of course, this will depend on the effective use of the European Structural Fund, which is ultimately the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy. I can tell you that we are very successful in drawing it out. In short, we have some €180 million announced this year. Anything for development aid to competitiveness-enhancing companies. This is said to be a new created value, and not least jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u161	There's only one minute left. That's all I'd tell you is that we've already discussed these things in this National Assembly, when we passed the Law on Taxation on the Benefit of Legal Persons. It is true that the Government's proposal to remove all the benefits was only retained for research and development. Because that is exactly what we want to focus investment in Slovenia as much as possible in that area. Besides, I need to correct your claim a little bit. As for investments in Slovenia - not only, you may not have noticed them here or there. The fact is that the productive structure in Slovenia is just such that the vast majority of all companies are small and medium-sized. And that's why maybe you don't see it. But when all of this comes together, there is a very large economic growth, which has enabled them to invest much more than in the past. 17% more. The SURS data confirms this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The Foreign Minister will be asked a question by Mr Geza Juban. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! My question was announced and written before the last meeting of the committee responsible, and it might be irrelevant if today I was not surprised by Mr President of the Government, whose statements were not only surprising, perhaps shocking. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: When will the control of the disputed territory, the upper part of the Mura, be established between the Mura and the Hotiz disaster and the infamous Murska Forest, where strange things are happening? In the upper part of the Hotize area and between the Mura border, that's 25. The 6th Conciliation Agreement, and the cadastral boundary, do not exercise control except at the Hotiz border crossing. The proof that this is true is the bridge over Mura. The nasip we allowed to build. What Minister Sponik and I have already talked about. And illegal, putting out fires within the disputed territory to Slovenian firefighters and preparing for the further construction of the embankment, which is said to be ongoing. Which means we have no control, or we allow Croats something that is not allowed. Zložna Murska Šuma, to be the result of the Drnovšek-Racan agreement. In the above part, the Croats do not respect the agreement 25. 6.- In Murska Šuma we should even set a new state border, which is not only a matter of Slovenia and Croatia, but also Hungary, because the tromei from the actual state moved by a few hundred meters or perhaps even a kilometer higher, which then tangeses the Republic of Hungary. And that the police don't go to this territory in this part as well, which I've seen for myself in the conversation and in the visit to this lower territory. That's why I'm asking the question: How will we restore control over the upper part of the disputed territory and restore the state of 30 hectares of the Murska Šuma with an appropriate stakeout? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I can answer your question in principle first and then I can answer very concretely. As far as the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned, I don't think there's any need to prove it in particular. However, I should like to reiterate that we are acting within our powers. We take care to protect the integrity of the national territory of the Republic of Slovenia, based on the accepted and applicable principles of international law, and take into account all historical facts. However, the fact is that in the Prekmurje area comes or comes from the Republic of Croatia to some unilateral actions that could constitute a prelude to resolving the border issue. These actions are contrary to the principles of international law and by an agreement between the States to respect the situation as it was on the day 25. 6. 1991. Croatia is in breach of the agreed agreements between the countries, including the 2005 Briony Declaration, in accordance with the provisions of international law, by these acts, against which Slovenia has consistently and appropriately taken measures. And in this way, he questions his own credibility. In doing so, it must be stressed that Croatia's unilateral and illegal action is null and void and has no legal effect. It is precisely because of Slovenian reactions and responses that such an action cannot affect the border resolution process between countries. I am saying that Slovenia cannot respond to unilateral acts of Croatia and its breaches of international law with the same infringements, because this would be contrary to the principles of international law and contrary to the principles and values of the European Union, which Slovenia even presides over. So, the fact is that if Croatia wants to become a member of the European Union, it will have to meet all the criteria for membership. In doing so, it will have to respect and implement the agreements adopted and take the lead, for example, in respect of the principle of good-neighbourly relations. But I want to say this about specific events. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made a strong protest to the Croatian Ambassador concerning the latest Croatian unilateral actions in the area of tromei, to which, inter alia, Ambassador Juban pointed out in his question. Regarding the ancient fire at Petišovci, about which you are asking, I must say that according to our information, Slovenian police observed a small fire on the right bank of the Mura River on 10 March 2008 protecting the state border in the territory of the Croatian disaster. The fire was reported by Slovenian police to the Croatian police and the Croatian firefighters. Because the place is hard to access, even Croatian firefighters did not put out the fire, but the fire extinguished itself. This area is very swampy. However, the reconstruction works on the river Muri are carried out in accordance with the joint statement of the Presidents of the Governments of Slovenia and Croatia of 2 September 2006. The renewal is carried out with the aim of protecting the security of the local population and their property and will in no way be prejudged until the final conclusion of the State border is reached. Today you heard the Prime Minister explain things on the Tromey or in the Murski Forest. He answered the question, even in this way, that he was quoting the motto that was prepared in February 2001, which I have here with me and which, unfortunately, has not been sent to the Croatian side since the decision of the then President of the Government. It is because negotiations on that well-known agreement, which we call the Drnovšek - Račan Agreement, began at that time. This is what it says in this note -- you can see it if you're interested. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs - this is written on 16 February 2001 - "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia has been informed by the Ministry of the Interior that Slovenian police officers on the field tour of the area at the state border at the sight of the extreme southern part of the Slovenian-Hungarian border have found that from A-645 stone, including this stone, to tromei, B-1 stone on the Slovenian side, border stones from A-645 to A-653 code of the Republic of Croatia." And then this note continues. I can also tell you that the Slovenian police have controlled this area 13 times in the last month physically, or occasionally, as required. In such a way that it is not possible to talk about the fact that Slovenia would not exercise jurisdiction. As far as the Ministry's conduct is concerned, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Minister, the actions are not the same as those of Croatia if we reestablish control in our territory on 25.6., we know what it means. This is said, on this side of the Wall, to restore control over this territory and not allow the construction of the embankment, the bridge and so on. No one will convince me - and anyone in the country or anyone - that the Croats are concerned about the transition of our citizens to Mura and that they are concerned about the flood safety of our citizens. However, the construction of the cadastre makes a shift to the cadastral border. And it is dangerous to establish gradually by building a embankment of the state border. As for the fire you're talking about, I was there at the time, and we were watching this fire with the cops, which was really on the other side of Moore. It was a long way off because they couldn't get close because they didn't enter the disputed territory of the Murska Forest, the 30 hectares. They said we weren't going there. I'm talking about the fire on the edge of the village of Petišovci and that there was no permit to fire fire the firefighters from Petišovci. And in this story, which I didn't make up, but I know the situation - as you can see - very well, something doesn't answer, and you need to take a thorough look at the situation on the spot so that you can figure out what it is. And it is imperative that you do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u168	Thank you. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u169	I think we agree with the Member of Parliament on a lot of things. However, I do not think that so far it is possible for the Slovenian Government to leave any action that would in any way move the borders to allow the adoption of the Slovenian territory to another country and so on. I know that's what they say here. But that's not true. Unilateral acts do not apply. As for border issues, border issues. As you know, there is a committee meeting that will meet to prepare appropriate grounds for further progress before the third or the court, arbitration or whatever. I can't give you another answer as if there are rules to be followed in international relations. However, I do not think there is any way to say that anything has been done wrong, that Slovenia would not exercise "jurisdiction" where it is being implemented. When it comes to these border stones, we have told you that these border stones have long been celebrated. After they were somehow falsified. That's what our ministry warned us in time. In the situation as it was then, on the eve of the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, it seemed to those who decided that it was necessary to act more calmly. I don't think there's anything missing. The documentation is here and also available to you - like everyone else - to see what is true and what is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u171	Thank you very much. So far, in a number of such cases, from the committee to the questions sent, the answer of the President of the Government has been raised. But never to come to the National Assembly. For this reason, I propose that, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a debate in this National Assembly on the response of the Minister, which I am not satisfied with, because you have not presented me with measures to restore the situation before 25.6. This is the area of Hotize, where things happen, which is not my invention. And below, in the section of the Murska Šuma, where you could find that I know things relatively well, but also with the help of the documents of the congregation and the people who live there, who provide us with information that something is happening there. And that is why I would suggest that the debate be held and that we might agree on things in a way that we will see how things stand and what examples there are in that part of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u172	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Juban to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Thursday, 27 March 2008. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who is rightly absent, will ask Mr Bojan Kontic a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u173	Thank you very much and I ask for your oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. A while ago, I also asked the Minister a written question in connection with the award of concessions or the invitation to tender which was published. The difference between then and today is that concessions have been granted and that no concession has been given to build a home for the protection of adults or the elderly in any way and any term used. And when I look at the argument why he didn't get it, I can't help but ask the question again and hear from the Minister a very serious and accurate answer. The number of points obtained on the basis of the location shows that the area unit where the tenderer competed with its offer is relatively well covered. I repeat, well-covered with existing public institutions or concessionaires. That is why he gained very few points from this title. In Velenj there is a home for the protection of adults with 190 free cities, I think, options. Of course they're all booked. There are 220 people waiting to enter this house. One way or another, it's time to wait. They're waiting for someone in this house to just die and empty the place for the next one. And the Ministry of Labour notes, despite such a need, that there is no need to grant a concession. And they say in an area in which the Municipality of Velenje also belongs, i.e. covered by a network of public homes and concessionaires for the institutional protection of the elderly, is not as fine as in some other areas. Madam Minister, in anticipation of the reply, I would like to inform all the people who are coming to the office of the Member and who are asking for assistance, to refer to it, to the Ministry and, at the final stage, to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a decision that's not acceptable. This is a decision that shows a very stepmotherly attitude towards local communities, where this government does not have its own political stand, as it wishes. It's a political decision. In doing so, I do not object to the fact that a concession was granted to the neighbouring congregation, because it is also necessary to build a home and these two homes do not compete. I want a precise explanation of the number of points obtained, including the investments that were granted where the concession was granted. So I expect from the Minister of Labour a very clear answer and a clear explanation. Not as much to me as to all those who are waiting for a place where they want to go today for nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The Minister of Environment and Space will ask the question of Mr Mitja Slavinec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u175	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! I am addressing you with a general question, but, of course, in a particular case, it refers to a project, which is certainly one of the most important in Pomurje at the moment. It's about the pomorsque plumbing. And this project, not only is it very important, but unfortunately the realization has already very, very late all the pre-announced hands. The problem arises from the use of various resources from the European, then the Water Fund and, finally, the municipal part of the funds. Because of this - as it is said - the issue can be more general than in this particular case and so many have felt the decision, the intention of your ministry, when you now want to resign or announce the Ministry's withdrawal from the investment of this project, but you want to disperse it to all the municipalities involved in this project. Many see this as another attempt to further delay the implementation of the project itself. Is there no need for funds or anything else? Of course I don't know. But know that such a procedure is not right. It's not right because, as we say, it's a vital project. It is a water supply in Pomour, in Goričko, where the drought from year to year is greater and water supply is not only due to the basic needs of the population, but especially due to agriculture and other economic activities is so important and crucial. If I am very specific, on 21 January 2005 you signed a contract with the mayors of the 26th Pomurski municipalities in Murska Sobota on the construction and operation and joint operation of the regional drinking water supply system in Pomurje. Now, by the way, look, this was in 2005. We are now in 2008 and the plumbing is still not even in the initial phase. That's what made him three times irritable. Now, as I have said, you predict that the investment will be dispersed in individual congregations, and we know what that means. This also means that in the event that the issue is not realized in one municipality, the whole project can fall and we are also financially responsible and obliged to return cohesion funds to European funds and the realisation of the pipeline itself is even more questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Thank you for your question, Member. Initially, I would like to assure you that as Minister, I see the Pomursky pipeline as one of the key development projects for Pomurje. Finally, in the contract mentioned by you, on the construction and operation and joint operation of the regional supply system of the Pomurje drinking water population, signed in January 2005. That's what the contract says. However, I must say that, as Minister, I will do everything I can to continue to encourage and motivate all the municipalities of Pomur to remain in this project. I would like to say that one of the important provisions of this Treaty is also a provision which states: "When we submit applications for cohesion funds we have a firm intention to do so within the next few months, the network manager must be known." Article 2 of this Treaty states that a joint public undertaking shall be established to provide drinking water to the public. Article 15 states: "The public undertaking shall commence operation no later than the time before the submission of the application for the European Commission's funds." Sadly, the congregations here could not be reconciled. Unfortunately, there was a lack of harmony between the Pomurs ’ congregations. Therefore, I must tell you that we have had very transparent meetings, meetings, coordination with the mayors over the past year. It was hard, but we insisted. The meeting was very important in November. November at the cultural home in Gornji Petrovci. Here I have a very detailed record of this meeting, at which the mayors of many municipalities asked very specific questions. It was also based on a proposal from one who was preparing only project documentation, and so at the time of this public presentation there was a 6th. 11. Four and a half months ago, it was announced that we would go to three subsystems of this project in order to lead it as successfully as possible. One area covers the Lendava area, the other Mursko Sobota with Gorički and the third part covers the spruce area. And I suggest that we move very intensively on with all these subsystems to enable the municipalities, although the contract clearly states that they will cover up to 10% of this project. For some congregations, this will simply be too much of a cost. If we go to see the treaty signed in 2005, and if we go to look at the article on financing, this is Article 5, it is clear that all the municipalities that signed these obligations will most likely not be able to do so. I think that the correct approach, which we have therefore made very transparent, which we have also presented to the municipalities, is simply to go to these three subsystems. To produce the necessary documentation for all three and, of course, to produce the necessary financial structure. Finally, a significant share is also a value added tax, which, of course, under the new financial perspective is no longer the cost that can be borne by European cohesion funds, but must be covered either from municipal resources or from state resources. So let's offer the congregations a hand and we'll offer it. I'll say it again. So let's move on. Article 1 of the Treaty itself clearly states that our ministry will be an investor in water cover and transport pipeline. This obligation will certainly be realized. There are several other agreed deadlines. In the last period, there have been meetings with all these subsystems. We'll meet again in the next few weeks. Why? So that we can simply complete the project in the coming months. Therefore, the documentation will be produced in order to be therefore transmitted for the allocation of cohesion funds. Finally, a few more rough estimates of financial resources. The gross estimate is that for the distribution network, each subsystem weighs about EUR 25 million. So this is saying, if we sum it up, this is about a project that weighs about five and a half million evovs. We have €30 million in cohesion funds. We have to do everything we can to get them fully pumped. In addition to the state budget, the water fund will, of course, be able to cover as much as possible. Up to 10%, according to this Treaty, my wish would also be to cover part of the municipality's financial resources from so-called regional resources, which are also part of European development money. As we say, on our part, we will continue to be more active in coordinating the project between the municipalities of Pomur, in order to succeed and to report it in the coming months for the allocation of cohesion funds, which is our priority.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinac, would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I am very pleased, Mr. Secretary, that you support this project. As you said, because this will be possible, I hope at least one of the many of this area is deterred from thinking that the Ministry of Project is working with a fig in its pocket. I tell you, the vast majority of them have been given the feeling that the Ministry of Environment and Space has approached this project with a fig in their pocket, and if you really support this issue, then I ask you to follow a little more closely the work of your professional services and other officials who are working operationally on this project. Why am I saying that? Look, I was alone at a meeting that was so long ago that I hardly remember it when it was said that this matter must be in Brussels in 2006. Look, we're now in 2008. And I'm stressing again. It is drinking water, which is on the one hand the source of life, and on the other hand it is crucial for many economic activities in the area; agriculture, livestock. And now I find it really hard to believe that all responsibility for delaying matters has been in the congregations for more than two years. I'm sure a large part of your responsibility is also borne by your ministry. And I'll tell you why the congregation can't cover it. Because it was first in the contract that up to 10% of the municipalities, and then the matter tripled, because 20% of VAT was a complete surprise. And so I ask you again: Why are you now trying to break the investment into individual congregations when you realize that these congregations do not have the resources? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I hope from my actions as minister that there was never any suggestion or reason to hold a fig in my pocket in this project. Those who know me know it was the other way around. We both know, Mr Member, that there has been a great deal of difficulty in issuing a contract for the manufacturer of the necessary professional bases, that we have lost quite a bit of time. I hope you don't put this delay on our dig. That's when I personally got involved, and then we found a way to move on. I would also like to tell you that I am not speaking to the congregation in any way right now. As we say, many congregations will need support to sustain this project. That's the key. Some will not be able to make up to 10% of their share. This should be highlighted. And here I see the commitment that through the state budget, the water fund, and perhaps also that some municipalities decide that in a developmental sense it may be more important for them than the asphalting of the municipal road, but that they will invest first in drinking water and make use of the resources provided by some other European means. That's their decision. This is more our wish, our expectation. I have to tell you that we have found that the common public company will not work. But after consulting those who know better, I would say, we also decided on the philosophy and cohesion of these areas themselves, three subsystems. And I think that was a good decision. This decision does not change in any way the commitments we have made. At the same time, we felt that the mayors had shown that this agreement on three potential operations of the system, these subsystems, had shown in principle affection. However, they could not agree on a common public company. Therefore, we must now set up a system manager as soon as possible. This is a condition for the documentation to be formally invested in cohesion funds. And here we work closely with the individual representatives of these subsystems. I must say that in each of these areas, some of the municipalities that are carriers have appeared. And we work intensively with them, and we will continue this work. And I would also ask you that, even as a Member, if you are active, the congregations would be active in this case. We have already made a new agreement on the financing of the pipeline. We have put in place additional requirements for a new cohesion policy. It was a time limit for the submission of comments. We haven't received them yet. And we would like this to happen next week, simply to conclude these formal matters and to file a cohesion fund case in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not satisfied with the Minister's response. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that we hold a debate and in this way also find an answer to the specific question raised by me: Why does the Ministry now want to withdraw from the investment of this contract after three years and try to break this investment into individual municipalities? We have heard a number of different interpretations as well as how the treaty has now been shared. But look! We're three years from now. After three years, we are still without any progress. And now this proposal to transfer the investment from the Ministry to individual municipalities will certainly make the matter more difficult, not more hasty. I believe to the Minister that this is a priority programme for him, at least for our area. Of course, I also believe that he will do everything in his power. But as we can see, there are no results. There's no results. And that is why we would like to look together for ways to finally get results, because this is the purpose of the debate. And for this reason, of course, I am asking the National Assembly to support my proposal and in this way, as it is said, allow the Minister to really state the reasons why the State now wants to transfer the investment. For, look, of course, the investor also assumes certain responsibilities. That's the problem. Thus, certain financial responsibilities fall on the congregations, which we have already found to be overly indebted and unable to finance or very difficult to do with 10%. It was then that 20% of VAT, which, as it was said, surprised everyone very much. He surprised everything so much more because it meant quite a threefold inducement factor. We've talked about this, Mr. Secretary, once before, if you remember, I've already asked you a question. For this reason, I am sure it will be good if we discuss this thoroughly and, as we say, find a solution so that we will not find again in a while that we are now, as we were three years ago, practically at the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u184	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Slavinac to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Thursday, 27 March 2008. Mrs Maria Pozsonec will ask the Minister of Public Administration and the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I am asking the following question to the Minister of Public Administration, Dr. Gregor Virant, and to the Minister for Environment and Space, Janez Podobnik. I ask the minister: How can a building permit be issued for an industrial facility which is not in conformity with municipal acts and where the affected area of at least 200 metres is not taken into account, without the consent of interested parties living within 200 metres of an influential area? How is it possible to build an industrial facility in a cramped village in the middle of a landscape park? I'm talking about the landscape park Goričko. The biogas plant was built 20.60 meters from the first apartment house where they have a baby right now. With an influential area, half of the village's 200 inhabitants will be less than 30 metres from your home and the Christian Reformation Church, where church rituals are performed by believers of three different faiths and finally in a village that does not have sewage and sewage from the surrounding area of the building and silos, a warning board will be placed in a nearby ditch to the risk of explosion and will virtually limit movement on a regional road. There's kids near this warning board where they're waiting for the bus every morning. And I'm asking: Or is this not the worst violation of human rights? I think this is the worst thing that can happen in our place right now. This is a violation against human safety, against human health, against a healthy environment. Who will finally be responsible for the 1,300 years old village, which will now be destroyed, for its culture, for its cultural heritage and for its security. Who's going to answer? You've been warned many times and you've left so nonchalant that they've upgraded and they've really upgraded. Mr. Sponik once looked.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Virant, would you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Although no specific project has been mentioned in the issue that was announced, it was clear to me and Minister Podobnik that your question would be related to the biogas plant in Movarjevci, because this dialogue has been going on between us for quite some time. The question raised was very general: How can a building permit not in accordance with municipal acts be issued? Clearly, the answer to such a question is that it cannot and cannot be. However, if this is a concrete project of a biogas plant in Močavjevci, the situation is as follows. I'll try to answer the question from the point of view of placing this biogas plant in the room. Mr Podobnik will also present a natural and environmental aspect, as the Environment Agency has also participated in this process. I checked the case. The administrative unit Murska Sobota issued a building permit in accordance with the Decree on spatial regulatory conditions for the municipality of Moravske Toplice. So this spatial act allows for such objects in that area. The administrative unit did not violate the spatial act, but issued a permit in accordance with what the spatial regulations contain. The first procedure violated the right of certain surrounding people to participate in the procedure. As a result, the procedure was renewed and these people were given the opportunity to make their views known or to express their views on the project. However, the renewed procedure also showed that there was no reason, no legitimate reason to refuse such authorisation to the investor. The investor also obtained all environmental permits for the operation of the biogas plant with regard to emissions into the air for the treatment of waste, with regard to noise emissions. In short, everything is within the limits of permissible, as far as environmental protection is concerned. In view of the fact that this is a facility in the protected area of Krajinski Park Goričko, the investor also obtained a natural security agreement. On what grounds the Environment Agency has issued these consents, as said, will be spoken by Minister Podobnik. And it will also be clear to those who do not know the circumstances of the case, that this is not an industrial facility in the sense of a factory, as someone might imagine when you imagine it as an industrial facility. It's biogas. So it's an ecological way of producing, producing energy. This biogas plant is built as part of an existing chicken farm. There's only one apartment house opposite this farm, and there's an industrial facility next to it. It's a saw. There's a church and a firehouse in the immediate vicinity. All other dwellings are located in a considerable distance south-east and north-west of the location of the biogas plant. So I'm saying the permit was issued legally. Nevertheless, I also obtained information on what the matter looked like on the ground. Investment is simply spatial and environmentally acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Minister Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u189	Thank you very much. In fact, the Minister, a colleague of Dr Virant, has already cited some of the arguments of nature, although ministers are not supposed to be responsible for a specific case. But we've seen from the questions what this is all about. So this is about biogas. But first, I would like to repeat what has already been said by Mr Virant. The Construction Act stipulates that the competent administrative authority for construction matters must, before issuing a building permit - and in this case it was an administrative unit - not an energy facility such that we are competent to issue a construction permit at our Ministry - verify that the project is designed in accordance with an implementing spatial act. And the municipal space act of the municipality where this facility lies makes this facility possible. And if the administrative authority did not do so and issued a building permit which would be contrary to an implementing spatial act, then it could be abolished or repealed in proceedings as provided for by law. It's an administrative procedure and an administrative matter. Those bodies which covered the area of nature protection in professional terms only took into account the content of the regulations in force. In this case, the investor followed these provisions. I must also say that in the renewed procedure, the administrative unit decided in March this year to put the specific building permit into effect. The individual nationals lodged a complaint against this decision. And now, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the administrative authority of the first stage sent it to the investor in response. In the course of the proceedings, it will be decided. This is in our ministry when we receive it, or all the circumstances are assessed from all these answers. The statements you have made here today, too, Madam Members. But until it's decided on a concrete complaint, it's up to these allegations as [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mrs. Pozsonec?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u191	Of course I'm not happy. Your first words, Mr. Secretary, were not what you saw this facility. We know that. I don't think it's your minister, but it's not a personal honor for you to defend something like you know it isn't. Because it's an open guy, it's not a closed guy. Here they will carry waste from the pig, and yet - I don't know from what - into a village that doesn't even have that kind of road. And all of this applies to what I said they don't have sewerage, because without sewerage, they shouldn't have leaked anything. And how it meets everyone's requirements, you say. For free, I would ask that we vote on this because I know that it would not have been voted on to discuss this. I'm not asking this, I'm asking you to be so understanding as to make sure of the details yourself. This will also be for your ministry and your honor. But as for the administrative permit, I saw that they were building it myself. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They built so high that they didn't have any boards out there. [[...]] After that, they put it out and not bilingually, but what I'm saying is that people didn't know what they were building. And they started building and they finished. Christmas and Friday, they kept building until they finished or you helped them finish because now they think no one's going to ruin it. If we have to go to Brussels, it will be a waste of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec, did I conclude that you didn't think about the procedural question as well? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I would only like to respond to this first observation of the honourable Member regarding our ministry. I would like to say that our ministry has agreed, in the context of the current procedure, that the procedure for the issue of construction was repeated in the administrative unit itself. It was a party in the process. Our ministry was the one that took this decision for the first time and ordered the administrative unit to repeat it. And now the administrative unit is the one who has decided as she has decided, but the procedure has not yet been completed. The procedure is not yet concluded and I think you understand me that it would be contrary to the principles of the rule of law if I, as a minister, now define myself to some of the particulars that may be relevant in the re-trial procedure when the matter comes to our Ministry within the second-degree body.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u194	Thank you. The Minister of Health and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be asked a question by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. My parliamentary question concerns the use and control of radioactively irradiated food and food. In recent years, the use of radioactively irradiated food and food has been greatly expanded following the writing of the media and the review of the websites - this has clearly been seen. According to this information, it is the radioactive radiation of food with "X" rays, with gamma rays emitted by the radio isotope cobalt 60 and with electronic rays produced by linear accelerators. The aim of these procedures is mainly to prepare and protect foods before they start, especially long food routes - food and these foods to the user, as well as perhaps, as is perceived, to prevent mutilation, to preserve these foods and so on. In addition to food, namely, vegetables and fruit, spices, medicinal plants, cereals are also subject to this procedure. In Ireland, they also found pasta that were radioactively irradiated, heat-treated meat and certain seafood products. Among the most active countries, according to the NGO Food and Water Watch, the largest equipment and companies involved in such radiation are China, India, South Africa and the United States of America, as well as many other major food exporters. Since it has been possible on the shelves of our shops to find food from the so-called whole world recently, among them also from the countries I have listed, the issue of regulation, presence and control in this area is being raised. We have read in the media, inter alia, that Europe has already banned the further issue of new permits in this area. However, of course, this is only about new acquisitions. While we do not have information on how many such permits Europe has already issued, and, of course, it is also linked to us in the past period. We don't know what it's like to have the back clearances already given. Of course, we are concerned and would like more information on how the area of food control and some of the other plant and animal products mentioned are regulated in Slovenia in relation to radioactive food processing. Is such food also present in Slovenia and who controls and cares about the area? How has this been done, or how much has been done in the last period?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u197	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. I thank you for the question, which is indeed true. In particular, let me take this opportunity, because today is Mother's Day to wish all women, mothers and girls, Members of course an extremely warm feeling, a lot of love and perhaps a full table of food that others have brought. To mention the legislation governing this area in Europe, of course, is a European directive, which is not new, because in Europe such ionising radiation has been used for years. Above all, there is the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Belgium, that is, those countries that are also major food producers. For us or for all of Europe, there is only one common provision, namely, dried aromatic herbs and spices for which the radiation procedure is prescribed. These may be on our shelves and are also controlled by the health inspectorate. In Europe there were approximately 7,000 such controls in 2006 in Slovenia 28, of which three were allowed to fall under the authorised group but were not marked. Let me mention that we are working extremely well with the Minister of Agriculture, including in the Presidency of the European Union, within the framework of the European Food Safety Agency. We are also negotiating a joint focal point in the Slovenian space just so that the risks that follow from the new eras of globalisation are limited as much as possible and the Minister of Agriculture will certainly add something to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u199	Thank you. A well-respected choir. I would add that, under the responsibility of our Ministry, the regulation on the general labelling of pre-packaged foods, which provides in the article that any food treated with ionising radiation must be labelled in accordance with the provision in question. This Regulation, the Regulation, is based on the relevant EU Directive. The subject-matter regulation I spoke about shall be issued by the Ministry of Health in agreement with our Ministry. It is a regulation on foods irradiated by this radiation. This Regulation states that the food business operator, the production of foodstuffs of animal origin shall also be obliged to ensure that, in the manufacture or production of foodstuffs, the use of these foods or ingredients is used to indicate all of this to the declaration of a particular product. Article 5 of this Regulation provides, for example, that all irradiated foods or constituents in the declaration must have the said text, I quote, "radiated" or quote "treated with ionising radiation". We are also concerned about the control of the production and production of foodstuffs of animal origin in this respect by the veterinary administration, which, according to the information I have received recently, has not found any inconsistencies with regard to the problem in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs. Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u201	Thank you very much for your answer. I think that after a long time we have really talked about a very important topic. Now, in fact, I haven't really understood you well enough in some way, and probably even those who listen to us. Whether only spices are allowed, and another thing was mentioned by the Minister, or the whole herd of these products, as I mentioned earlier: from fruit, vegetables to seafood, cereals and the like. It is probably as in Europe that we are allowed to do so. I have to say, I just went to see today. I must say that at least in the department of large stores, where there is fruit and vegetables, there are no declarations whatsoever other than those on their tables. As a user, I can't be satisfied with the way I am, so I took a little trade today from this very point of view of information. I am pleased to have such a rule, as the Minister of Agriculture has said, on labelling, where we should, in fact, find information on each product that this is treated in such a way. On the other hand, I could see that there was a government in the world, not so much with us, because we had not talked much about it, much resistance in some way to this food. In recent times, some of the negative and harmful consequences of such treatment have also emerged on a day-to-day basis, mainly due to the very short period in which it is used, so that this is not yet known. And, of course, I must say that after your answer, I am in no way satisfied with the feeling that we can get, or that we are actually seriously controlling this matter, especially in terms of labelling. I think you two need to look at what that looks like in fruit and vegetables. And if that's allowed, then I don't think it's properly marked there.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u202	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The Food Labelling Directive is also on the agenda during our presidency. Of course, this directive, which is a very large number of countries, especially those that are strong food producers, does not want to. Nevertheless, we count on this to be a success during our presidency. Labelling is also available on those foods where it is already very clearly prescribed today, and it is still written in such a way that it is exclusively insufficient for a non-aware user. And that is why, in our strategy, awareness of also the attitude to food, to a healthy way of life is now extremely important. From this, consumers, users will also be able to draw their own attention to all these matters. We can only legally have aromatic herbs and spices. This could be legal. Everything else, what is in force in individual countries, what is in force in the UK, the Netherlands and Belgium, are, of course, purely national rules that do not apply to us. And so far we don't have any other regulations and other areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend will ask the Minister of the Interior a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the hour. I would like to ask the Minister of Home Affairs: Why did the Slovenian police in the border belt with Croatia, in the Dragonje area, as Mr Geza Juban asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs earlier, not exercise control at the border points? Why was it not possible to visit Slovenian territory, stressing Slovenian territory, officials of the Fund of Agricultural Lands? Why did the police allow the employee to be detained in fact in Slovenian territory, also arrested and later taken to the Croatian police, where she was detained, examined and later released? I would like to ask the honourable Minister: Why do you not act against the laziness of the Agricultural Land Fund, which we know manages these lands, and every director is legally obliged to monitor the legality of the business, but does not implement this Fund Director? Would it not be normal to prosecute a person who is entrusted with such a task on a regular basis if the police do not already exercise control at this border point? In this area, the fund has land that it has leased legally, but it does not act legally against the decision of the Croats, who, we know, first organized a cadastral and later sold land that is not theirs. How will the police act if Mr Joras is to be assigned? Will she protect him? That's what I'm interested in. Why does the Slovenian police not take Slovenian fishermen to the defense if we know they are hunting in Slovenian territory? Many times they were persecuted by Croats. Nothing happened, but Nemo's watching. Minister, in the National Assembly, you have sworn to act in accordance with the Constitution, the laws and the welfare of citizens and citizens. Why don't you do it the way you swear?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Of course, the question now raised is substantially different and much broader than was raised in writing. And for those who look at us, it must be made clear that there are certain rules in this National Assembly, which some stick to more than others. But I will try to answer these questions that have been asked here. First, of course, I must make it very clear how state border controls are defined. State border control is precisely established and provides for it to be carried out at border crossings and at border crossing points. To this end, the competent police are in accordance with the law, and international rules are also respected in accordance with the Council of Europe or the European Parliament and the Council Regulation on the Schengen Borders. In no way and absolutely does it argue that the Slovenian police at the border crossings do not carry out border controls and all those activities which must be carried out in this regard. Border control shall be carried out at border crossings in accordance with a Regulation adopted in the Republic of Slovenia. The points that are border crossings are set out in the Regulation, while, of course, we also have a specific agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia on points where the border crossings are defined. At all these points, the police are fully and consistently twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, each year, carrying out all their acts, which they must carry out in accordance with their powers, while at the same time police are protecting the state border. It protects the state border against illegal migration, drug trafficking, organised crime and prevents cross-border crime. The control of the state border itself is not carried out along the national border, as the functioning of the police is tactical and otherwise defined in a completely different way than the protection of the state border by military structures. In the former SFRY, the military protected the border, protected the borderline, and also fired at anyone who wanted to cross the border by one millimeter. Of course, they had a lot of ground to do that, and they loved doing that very much. When the border is protected by the police, and it has been doing so since 1991, the protection is, of course, tactically and also strategically, completely different, it is not protected by a borderline, it is protected by a deep border. By means of a special agreement or negotiations that Slovenia has negotiated over the past years, it has also achieved by accession to the European Union that our territory allows us to have a different treatment, if I say so as with other new members, that control of the state border is carried out not only in a narrow green zone, so-called green zone at the border itself, but also in an area of the whole country of the Republic of Slovenia due to the specific circumstances and situation that the country has. As a result, the police are trained, have all the techniques to implement and prevent organised crime, illegal migration and cross-border crime at all these points. In doing so, we have also significantly succeeded in reducing both illegal migration and organised crime across this territory. I must say that Slovenia, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already said several times today, is strictly trying to comply with the adopted acts adopted when declaring the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as with the subsequent agreements that have been concluded and have spoken of avoiding incidents. The police are trying to enforce a regime that was 25.6.1991, but you need to know that the Ministry of the Interior and the police are not competent, they have never been, and also probably, at least I hope they never will be, in order to negotiate with the neighbouring country on the state border. This is the responsibility of other institutions in the country, and so it is in all countries that are democratically resolving their issue. But there's something else I should point out about fishermen. I personally reached an agreement with the Croatian side in such a way that the incidents in the Gulf of Piran in the last two years have completely stopped that it was possible to carry out activities in this space and we stopped that black leaf or that black scale that we have been doing every year, how many incidents there have been? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President! To break the rules when we ask questions, this will no longer be true. I wrote in my previous announcement that I would ask you about the control of the state border, and I did. You say you protect these border points every day. Yet, there are living inhabitants who claim otherwise. They argue that there is no control at these border points at all. To whom now to believe, whosoever lieth, and whosoever deceiveth, let us leave those who look upon us and hear. But I'd like to ask you again, because I didn't get an answer. Why did you not protect the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, officials of the Fund of Agricultural Lands, when she managed her official duty and wanted to make sure that it was true that in an illegal way the neighbours intervened in the territorial inviolability of the Republic of Slovenia? She was detained and arrested in Slovenian territory and taken to the Croatian police. Where was the Slovenian police and why did they not act? And if it is true that everything is so fine, how do you comment on the event, that the resident there at the time when our foreign minister hosted Mrs Kitarevičeva was given a loaded decree at the door, unless the facility removes that day to do so by Croatian authorities, and with explosives. That's what we warned you about. We didn't get the right answer. Dear Minister, the specific answers when you begin to protect this border, I would like to ask.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, our legislation doesn't know the concept of a border point. You probably know that. In our legislation we have border crossings, borders and border crossings and, of course, borders. How the control takes place in this area, if you say at the point where the border control is carried out in the Sečovje region, you can ask 1.5 million passengers who cross this border crossing every year. If you go across today, you'll see that the police will carry out all those acts that are absolutely necessary. Including verification at the SIS database. Because of this base we have discovered so many and so many criminals, persons who need to be detained because of a prison warrant either in Slovenia or outside Slovenia. Over 250 people have been arrested for this, we have detected over 400 vehicles seized at these border crossings, where you say border control is not being carried out, we have prevented over 2,500 people from entering the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. We have the evaluation of all members of the European Union before we enter the Schengen area, which suggests that control at our border crossings and the protection of the state border is carried out at the highest possible level. Of course, you can have a different opinion and, above all, you can explain some of the concepts you are interpreting differently, and this is, of course, your right as a citizen, as a Member, as someone who lives in the Republic of Slovenia. However, I can talk here about how border control is technically carried out. It shall be carried out in full consistency for all who travel across any point, if you wish, in the manner on which the border inspection is carried out. In other lanes, it is said in other areas between two border crossings, but the state border is controlled with all the means available, with passive, with active means, with thermal cameras and everything else. Here, of course, all of this is used and implemented. I can't comment on how another minister was meeting someone else and what was going on at the time. I wasn't involved in this and you have to ask someone else. So you need to address these questions somewhere else. I cannot accept the claim here that the Slovenian police are not protecting the state border and that they are not carrying out checks at border crossings. This is done in full and will also be implemented in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In accordance with the business definition, I will propose an extended debate because the answers have only partially satisfied me. You're answering very unsettlingly, Minister-in-Charlie, so over the finger, I have a right. You have not answered the essential questions: Will you protect Mr. Joras and will you allow the official authorities to inspect the land at issue? Finally, it is the employees of the Agricultural Land Fund, entrusted by the State of Slovenia to control agricultural land in this disputed area. Because you claim exactly the opposite of what the actual residents who live there say, it would be right to realize that as soon as the sun shines, your cops are everywhere and they control the good stuff, they also dignify all those who drive too fast. And it would be nice if we ever took a walk on these border points. That's their job, too. That's what I was asking you, and you kept your mouth shut. But the border crossing knows what a border crossing is. That's why I'm going to try and be happy in this National Assembly, because we know that your coalition is acting like an oily machine and you're going to reject it. You are afraid of the truth and the pure wine in the glass and we will try to vote on my proposal to hold an extensive debate in the National Assembly on these issues that are open and you do not want to see them. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u214	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Friend's Member to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior to his question on the matter of the matter, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Thursday, 27 March 2008. Mr Drago Koren will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u215	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting to the Members of Parliament, to the Secretary of State! Last year was a very successful year after our economic growth. The only country in Europe that can boast so much economic growth. That is commendable, but apparently every good thing has a negative one. And also this high economic growth is certainly the reason that freight traffic on our Slovenian roads is increasing so rapidly and strongly. Roads are also often the ones that prevent normal development in certain regions. I'm sure they're a silly and corny region where they suffer from normal development because they don't have a normal road connection. But the purpose of my question today is mainly to increase freight traffic on motorways and especially on regional roads. We are all aware that in order to ensure the safety and flow of our regional roads, as much freight traffic as possible must be diverted to motorways. Why is that important? It is important because this traffic poses a great threat, threatens citizens and is in fact already disturbing in certain areas to such an extent that it is no longer possible to tolerate it. Unfortunately, however, many truckers also choose to use these regional roads in areas where we have built motorways. This is obviously due mainly to avoid payment of the toll. I ask the Minister of Transport: What measures will the Government take in the future to keep as much freight as possible on the highways or to try to get it on the railways?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u217	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. I would like to say that we have done a great deal in this mandate to your question about measures related to the increasing traffic of freight vehicles and the related protection of the local population against noise and other emissions of freight transport along regional roads in parallel with motorways. First of all, I would like to remind you of the amendment of the Public Roads Act of 2005, on the basis of which the Ministry of Transport with the Regulation issued in autumn 2006, for the protection of the local population against harmful emissions of freight transport in the environment, which has prohibited the maximum permissible mass of over 7 and a half tonnes at 15 sections of state roads passing through settlements or through settlements and running parallel to motorways, except of course local traffic. The measure was implemented in accordance with the debate and the opinion of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Transport in 2006 and in accordance with the legislative powers. I estimate that the measure has greatly improved the housing and safety conditions of those regional roads and that, in order to protect the local population from the effects of excessive noise and increased exhaust emissions, the Ministry will also take action in future if such a measure is met with the conditions for restricting traffic due to noise protection and other transport emissions set out in Article 46 of the Law on Public Roads. If you have a specific case, I would ask you to introduce me to it. On your second question about the measures by which as many freight traffic as possible could be diverted to the railways, I would like to clarify the following. The Resolution on Transport Policy also aims to transport goods in transit from roads to railways among the main objectives of transport policy. It should be noted that the basic measure to achieve this objective is to ensure a competitive supply of rail transport in terms of price, time and other requirements. In this context, the first task is to modernise public rail infrastructure, as you probably know, will require a lot of resources. I am pleased to note that this difficult project has actually begun to take place. In addition, I would like to point out that the transfer of goods from roads to railways cannot successfully reduce the number of vehicles if not all countries on individual transport corridors are involved in the search for solutions. Here I am referring to the fifth corridor, because the competitiveness of transport must be ensured on the entire route of goods. Given that the transit problem is the problem of all EU Member States lying along important transport corridors, I believe that cooperation between Member States and other interested pressure on road transport in the coming years will at least ease. Currently, we have a problem in the Republic of Slovenia, as you probably know, which is also linked to the lack of public railway infrastructure. This prevents a significant share of freight transport from being diverted to the railway at the moment. Nevertheless, we are working on this intensively, I have ordered the Slovenian Railway Administration to explore the very intensive possibility of including those industrial tracks that exist across our companies, and they are somehow trying to put them into operation. This means that it is precisely what you asked to try as many trucks as possible today by placing these non-functioning industrial tracks in a position to carry this cargo onto the railway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Koren, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u219	Thanks for the answer. I'm happy with the answer. I know this problem is impossible to solve overnight. But I have to say that I think that here is actually a time of relentless overcoming, that we are not able to follow the needs that appear here. If we remember a few of these last weekends, what was going on in Maribor and the neighborhood with these trucks, it's actually sad. This measure is welcome, it is said to prohibit traffic on these regional roads where there is parallel motorways. I'm very supportive of that. Sadly, though, it is also true that a number of drivers do not take into account this and abuse it. But I'm asking another question on this occasion. I am surprised or wonder: How is it that you have released this heavy cargo traffic across the Tuhinj Valley, where the road is technically inappropriate, inadequate for such heavy cargo traffic as was previously prohibited, and now traffic is released there? But over such decisions, I must say, I'm surprised, and it seems to me that we should not allow cargo traffic here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u221	Thank you very much for these additional questions. I have to agree with you that we're getting ahead of ourselves. And yet, as you know, we're building highways very intensively. Also because this freight traffic is increasing, as well as all other traffic, not only in Slovenia, but throughout the European Union. As far as truck abuse is concerned, there's not much I can do to help you. That's what the police are responsible for punishing such offenders. As far as the Tuhinj Valley is concerned, I must say that the Regulation, which was in use a while ago, was that the purpose of this Regulation was in some way to review the traffic signalling of state roads, because some traffic signs have been there since anyone ever knew. And the purpose of the Directorate was, of course, to verify the general signalling, to determine whether or not the signs were properly placed. On the basis of the analysis of the road through the Tuhinj Valley, it was assessed that it was not appropriate to prohibit freight traffic there, given that despite this prohibition all local freight traffic took place. The decision at the time, which was taken on the basis of this analysis and verified through the Regulation, was to open freight traffic through the Tuhinj Valley, given that this is not a parallel road with the motorway. However, since a number of questions were also raised by the local population and the mayors also responded, it was agreed that we should monitor, so let's count traffic, compare it with the traffic that was before this ban was lifted and then decide. At this point in time, the measurements indicate that the increase in traffic is not that freight traffic is the same as it was before it was discontinued. And like I said, if we figure out on the basis of measurements that traffic has increased - I'm talking about transit because the locals are doing it anyway - we'll take the appropriate action.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer, the Secretary-General of the Government and the Minister of Public Administration, will raise the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The recent government appointment of the Director of the Securities Market Agency is controversial after writing to the media. The entire selection process should point to the marked favouration of one candidate and attempt to find, at all costs, an appropriate basis for its choice, although it does not meet the tendering conditions for that place. Mostly work experience is a stumbling block and should be disputed. The second point of Article 484 of the Law on Market Finance Instruments is quite clear. It takes ten years of working experience for this town, and the candidate selected does not have it, but one of the other candidates who has not been selected has had them. This suggests that nepotism and customerism in government ranks have a firm place in human resources policy when it comes to high government officials and other employees. One is the beauty of respect for laws and expertise, and quite another is the concrete practice that we have been looking at for three and a half years. The government and the government coalition also demonstrate through this case that customerism is a systematic building in the functioning and management of the state. It's about acting on less well-established rules. Where, as in this case, the Ministry of Public Administration’s instructions to the tendering committee give discretion to decide otherwise than in the tendering terms or even in the law. It is a three - and - a - half - year practice that has grown beyond all limits of good taste. Therefore, in particular, the Secretary-General and you, the Minister of Public Administration, ask: What legal basis has enabled the Commission to consider student work as a working time? Will the practice of recognition of student work and other works in the future in meeting the conditions laid down in the tendering conditions for acquired work experience continue and even apply, perhaps even legally? Will practice also be taken into account in meeting the conditions for appointment of a public servant to a higher title and promotion to a higher pay grade?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The work concerning the selection of the Director of the ATVP or the selection of candidates who are professionally qualified for the site was carried out by a special tendering commission appointed by the Official Council. You know that the official council is made up of 12 members, of whom only four are appointed by the Government, which means that this body is not under government control. The invitation to tender appointed by the official council shall consist partly of members of the official council, partly of external experts and partly of experts from the ministry, or of an area for which a candidate is nominated. This part of the procedure, which is intended to verify that the formal conditions and the competent conditions are met, whether the candidate, according to his or her competences, skills, skills, skills are suitable for this job, is held in a call for proposals not nominated by the Government or by a minister responsible for a particular area. I did not participate in this committee, nor did I give any instructions on how to decide, so it is difficult to comment. But the details of how the commission worked, Mr. Speaker, was the chairman of this commission, he would have commented more easily. However, I can comment or answer your question on what can be considered as work experience when work experience is prescribed as a condition for the job. Under the Law on Public Servants, working hours at work require the same level of education or for one level of lower education. Labour experience also takes into account work at the same level of difficulty, i.e. work at the same level of difficulty, even if it is not a formal working time. This novelty was introduced by a new law on civil servants, I think in 2005. And this novel was a result of frequent findings from practice that it was not possible to recognise in practice some of the work experience gained in the workplaces of the appropriate degree of difficulty, but not as a formal working time in the regular working relationship, but in some other way. Like working in European institutions on the basis of a contract of work, such as work on the basis of an copyright contract or on any other legal basis. You will probably agree that it would be bureaucratic to exclude a candidate who does not have a formal working age at some stage of the difficulty of work, but has work experience acquired in a different way, such as on the basis of the author's contract or something else. And on the basis of this 13th point of Article 6 of the Civil Service Act, the Ministry of Public Administration issued a circular, an explanation as you wish, but not for this particular case. Last year we answered the question of many bodies, human resources services, these questions were asked in practice, and the question of what can be considered as work experience. And we have made it very clear that these are also work experience acquired outside the working relationship, for example, on the basis of a contract of work, an author's contract or a student's contract, on the condition that it is to perform work at the same level of difficulty as the job for which the person is running. This practice was established on the basis of the Law on Public Servants, applying the Law on Public Servants. And I think it's the right thing to do. In practice, you may find that you have, say, ten job candidates, one of which is best suited by your knowledge, experience, skills, skills. In the interview you will find this, and based on his references we should, say, exclude him because of this formalistic condition - because he does not have eight years of formal working age, but he may have ten years of experience, but he has acquired them in another way for several years, not through a formal contract of employment. I therefore think that this is an appropriate practice and that it shows that it is the same way to continue. Of course, these working experiences are also considered as a condition for progress. That is to say, the person who has fulfilled the condition for a job at the time of employment clearly also fulfils the conditions for promotion to a higher title or to a higher pay grade.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u227	Of course, I cannot be satisfied with this answer, because I would partly take this answer into account if I could satisfy the basic formal condition, which is a diploma. This same candidate, who has been elected today, has not been graduated for ten years, since he graduated in the second half of 1998. Under these conditions, too, it is not formally sufficient for this 484th Article. So I'm going to point out once again, it's double criteria. And I will speak in the political language, but this is not only a practice in this case: if it is ours, let us look through the fingers when it comes to conditions, if it is not ours, of course, cancel the call and repeat the call. I'd like to remind you, Minister, you and Vlado, for example, in Celje, which happened years ago. In 2006, on the basis of the Court of Auditors’ finding, your government issued a finding that the employment of the Director of the Municipal Administration in Celje was illegal. Your Human Resources Commission, because it's not supposed to meet the terms of the invitation to tender. And look at the fraction, the basic condition that was not met by the invitation to tender was the working time, the one that should be met. The case has even been taken into consideration by criminals, and today the indictment has been filed and the mayor of the Municipality of Celje has been accused of abuse of the official position. And I ask you: Will the President of this calling commission, the Secretary of the Government, be accused of abuse of his position? Last but not least: Will there not now be complaints about various invitations to tender? Above all, it will be interesting to know how public servants who have not taken into consideration in their promotion to a higher title, although prescribed by law, will respond. That's how I think there's gonna be more complications. Once again, that basic condition was not met, so your argument falls into empty space.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u228	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I'll challenge your basic assumption immediately. This candidate, who was finally elected Director of the Securities Markets Agency, has, in my opinion, been running for office on a list of a political party that is not part of the ruling coalition, if we are already asking for his political provenance. If you are already wondering about his political affiliation, he obviously belongs somewhere else. But we don't wonder, we don't wonder, it doesn't matter to us. Reduction of work experience in the state administration. During the term of office of this government, there has been a decrease in the work experience required as a condition for jobs of various difficulties in the state administration and there has been a significant de-debarcation of human resources procedures. Among other things, by taking into account the work experience gained outside the formal working relationship, not to mention that we have made a major change in this direction, so that we do not require candidates to submit a variety of certificates and evidence of data that we can obtain ourselves in official records. But that doesn't even have much to do with it. In short, we debirocratised the human resources procedures, reduced the formal working experience for job candidates and also took into account the other work experience. I think that's positive. This opens up opportunities for young candidates, fresh candidates coming to the state administration. Of course, you will always find behind all these positive movements, or you will want to see some evil intentions, a desire for politicization, a choice of people who are politically loyal, and so on and so forth. You can speculate a lot about this, but I can say no. Any minister or any chairman who chooses his associates in these proceedings, I think he'll do the best he can if he chooses the best. If he doesn't choose the best, he'll shoot his own knee. After all, he will have problems at work, at work, if his fellow workers are chosen according to other criteria, not according to the criteria of expertise and ability. By simplifying procedures and reducing experience in order to be able to recruit politically or something like that, I really have to say no.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u231	I am absolutely not satisfied with this answer because the Minister himself said that he was not on the invitation to tender and did not know on what basis all the tendering committee had decided. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that a candidate has also applied for this invitation to tender, which met all the tender criteria and met all the criteria. And if you are already talking about doing a little bit of homework, then I suggest you amend the Law on the Market of Financial Instruments, which is perfectly clear in Article 484. And when you change it, of course you can do your own thing. Otherwise, I would warn you that due to nepotism and clienteleism, the current President of the Government, who was your supervisor in the spring of 2004, that was four years ago, here spoke extremely much and highlighted an extraordinary situation in this area. It's been three and a half years, and I'm asking you what's changed. Nothing's changed. All that changed was that it was your turn before, and now it's our turn. And you're holding on like a drunk fence. I have to tell you this, and I can prove it to you through countless cases. I'll say it again. I propose that, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, we have a broader debate because I would like to prove with other evidence that you are discriminatory to other public servants who are not taken into account in their progress to the higher classes. Here you take into account your criteria the student work that has been done, even for a time when a person has not even had a degree. So he was working during his studies. I don't think it's such a simple matter, and it's not just a public servant working somewhere in line six. This is the Director of the Securities Market Agency. You yourself give this institution a lot of importance and a lot of attention and read it on Saturday, I think there was a diary or a Dela, where your former minister is very critical of the way you frame him. This political recruitment also takes place in these independent institutions, which are recruited from the cabinet of the President of the Government. This is a colleague of yours who sat in this chair a year and a half ago, and now another minister is sitting here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u232	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Kumr to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Thursday, 27 March 2008. The Minister of Justice will be asked a question by Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! In this mandate, the Ministry of Justice has so far produced more than 50 legal novelties. So many have already been sent to the legislative procedure. At this meeting of the National Assembly and at the forthcoming April session, we will consider as many as 16 laws drawn up by the Ministry of Justice. Among them is the penal code, which is the law over laws, as we tend to say. For the third time in this term, we will be amending the Law on Courts, the Law on Criminal Procedure, some others at least for the second time. We are faced with the right flood of legal novelties from your jurisdiction, and we accept most of it at the top of everything by short or urgent procedure, regardless of the fact that actual business requirements and conditions are not met for such proceedings. Just about one quarter of all laws are passed on a regular basis, which is supposed to be a rule, becoming a big and rare exception. How do you manage to hear this often in the context of the inadequately professionally equipped ministry, even in individual products coming to Parliament, how do you manage to produce such a number of novelties after all? It would be interesting to hear how much in a given year of this mandate the Ministry has spent tax money on paying rich fees to experts and institutes that have been preparing draft laws instead of the Ministry. Moreover, the quantity of rules is the rules in inverse proportion to the quality of legislation. Is there any assessment, Mr Minister, of how much change, for example, in the whole area of criminal law, will have a negative impact in the wider sense on the extension of proceedings before the courts? How will this affect the implementation of the Lukende programme? How long will it take for judges, prosecutors, lawyers, the police to enforce criminal sanctions to familiarise themselves with the new regulations? Does the Ministry prepare or participate in the preparation of the various training programmes mentioned? These are all questions that I would like to ask you for an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, and thank you very much for the honourable Members for the question, because this allows me to say what we have done at the Ministry in this mandate. Of course, at the outset, we faced a large number of judicial backlogs, which all take root in 1994, 1995, when the judiciary is its great backpack of unresolved cases, due to the poor conduct of the judiciary under the then government. From the very beginning, we have focused on such solutions, which reduce backlogs, and in this we have been, I am pleased to say, very successful so far, because the judicial backlogs have decreased every year of our mandate. In the last year alone, in important cases, these key issues in the field of justice have been reduced by 11%. There has never been such a reduction before, and the difference between the beginning of the mandate and today is very great. However, let us also take into account that we have achieved that the compensation for the slow trial is now being determined by the Slovenian courts, and we do not need to go to the European Court of Human Rights for justice in Strasbourg. We've made a number of laws possible. Each novelty has brought, in this respect or in that regard, opportunities for faster and more efficient work of the courts and thus for the reduction of judicial backlogs. We've set up a Justice Education Center. We have provided it with an appropriate location, suitable premises and human resources equipment. The education that takes place in it is 50% higher than before. They allow judges, prosecutors and all other judicial authorities to deal successfully with outstanding issues, as is also known in reducing backlogs faster. In addition, all the proposals that we have adopted in the meantime have been very numerous, contributing in many ways to a more efficient and more advanced functioning of the courts. This year, with the new year, a special court in Slovenia began to operate, one for all enforcement procedures only, fully automated. Of course, a number of legal novelties had to be adopted for this court to begin its operation. They were accepted. All recognition to you, Members of Parliament, whom you have accepted. With this you have enabled this modern acquisition of glass. And there's still a lot of stuff like that. I would argue that even the proposed legislation on criminal proceedings, we have such assessments, in no way will it affect the slower resolution of the courts. On the contrary, we even have estimates that work will then go easier and, consequently, faster.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u237	I must have asked you a bad question because you obviously didn't understand it properly. Above all, I have focused on the problem that we are in contact with the inflation of legislation in the area covered by your Ministry of Justice and that some laws in this mandate are being amended for the second time, for the third time, for the fourth time. However, some, such as the Penal Code, are accepted in a highly controversial procedure and after a public debate that was not, and after essentially preparing in secret. For all of this, I say that the worrying situation regarding the exercise and respect of the rule of law is in such sensitive areas as the judiciary, the prosecution, the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms in a broader sense. Well, by the way, the D.A. is currently being hit by some sort of internal crisis. One thing is clear, the more there is legislative inflation, the more there is rapid and reckless interference with positive legislation, the more erosion of the rule of law and the rule of law is shrinking. However, I must admit that I am really surprised by the attitude of the Minister of Justice, who was or is still a professor at the Faculty of Law and is a former judge of the Constitutional Court. Indeed, the stability of the rule of law, its internal coherence, legality, legal certainty, trust in law and on the other hand the independence and independence of the judiciary, the principle of the division of power, all of these principles on which the rule of law is to be based and which are often violated precisely because of the inflation of laws coming from the Ministry of Justice. I am convinced that these are very serious problems of a broader dimension and that legal certainty in Slovenia is increasingly questionable. And the reference to the fact that you inherited some large and heavy backpacks from the former authorities is, of course, becoming less credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u239	Thank you, too, for this supplementary question. First of all, I should reject the allegations that appear and are totally unrealistic and untrue that matters in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office are not humanely supported. That's not true. The group is in a larger composition than it was at the beginning. At the beginning of her term of office, she counted six prosecutors, today she counts eight. So, the claims you're making that there's been a decrease in this group are not true. Also during the term of office, there was an increase in the seizure in the prosecutions as a whole. This is a completely solved question. On the other hand, I have to say this, we did not inherit only many judicial setbacks, we also inherited irregular and uncoordinated legislation. What did we do? We rolled up our sleeves and went to work, and today the situation is completely different from at the beginning of the mandate. These marriage solutions, which they now have, are quality, enable better and easier work of the courts, also allow greater legal certainty for all citizens who turn to the courts and ensure that they do so in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u241	Thank you very much. I am not satisfied with these answers because it is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice to explicitly underestimate the seriousness of the situation that has arisen in this area of the rule of law and legal certainty. By the way, what is the argument that now there is 8 instead of the previous 6 for the current prosecution group, when all experts point out that all such flying prosecutors need every time they come to this special prosecutor's group, a certain time for them to get used to the body in this special prosecutor's group. And by the mermaids who know the situation in the D.A., we've got information that at least triggers concern. I would suggest that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a detailed discussion on the answers of the Minister of Justice, because the situation in this area is worrying. Even if we compare it with some of the principles of good practices and standards set by the Council of Europe in the field of human rights protection, rule of law and plural democracy, in this process, which we have seen more and more recently or in processes, and the situation is more worrying. Therefore, a special debate on these issues and this issue will not be overlooked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u242	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Ambassador Darje Lavtijar Bebler to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice to her question, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Thursday, 27 March 2008. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will ask Mr Kristijan Janc a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Chairman. Gentlemen, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'm interested in the agricultural land fund, Minister. Land transfers between municipalities and the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests are governed by the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, namely, transfers of agricultural land from the municipality to the fund and from the building fund to the municipalities. The Fund plays a rather passive role in these procedures by carrying out these transfers exclusively at the initiative of the municipality. It is unreasonable that the Fund is virtually inactive even in cases where it acquires this land from municipalities, an even more complex and longer-term procedure is needed in cases where there is a need to make a partition before the transfer. I believe that these activities of the Fund do not reflect the Court of Auditors' requirements of 31. 5. 2006 and that the requirements and comments have not been fully met. In addition, farmers have similar difficulties in the operation of the fund. The Agricultural Land Fund, as a state authority, rents farmers agricultural land for which we charge rent, which is right and the problems start later. The fund introduces land plots into the contract and also accounts for land by area and culture entered into the cadaster and the situation in nature is completely different. The same agricultural land is treated by two institutions on a completely separate basis. This is evident when we compare the lease agreement of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and the subsidy role of the agency with the farmer for the same area. Lands and meadows were rented by the cadastral, and in nature there is a large part of this land already in the forest. That's how a farmer gets to rent a forest, like he gets a lawn or a field. The agricultural land fund should play a more active role on the agricultural land market by the manager, seller and buyer of agricultural land and thus direct the process structure of agricultural land. Fertile land is the basis for the production of food and clean water, air and the environment, and mineral raw materials are also a very important natural resource for the country to deal with. I ask, Mr Minister, given that the measures taken by the Court of Auditors have been sufficiently clear in line with the establishment of a better business situation, I ask: Are they being implemented and if they have positive effects? Local communities, which still have a considerable range of open issues related to this issue, unfortunately we do not feel this. I also have the exact same response from farmers who address me as mayor of the municipality of Sevnica. I wonder: When can the municipalities be expected to complete these land transfer procedures and up-to-date parcel records? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. Thank you, Member, for the question. The Fund explained the current situation with regard to the two issues you asked. According to the information received, the transfer of land between municipalities and the Fund is taking place. As you know, not only on the basis of the Fund Act, but also the Public Funds Act, the Agrarian Community Act and the Sports Act. According to the Fund, there is a significant problem with all these laws in that it is not possible to directly register ownership rights in the Republic of Slovenia or in the municipalities in these procedures, but for each land-book entry a signed transfer contract with the owner is required, which prolongs the procedure considerably. This is also one of the fundamental reasons why this procedure or copy has not yet been fully implemented. According to their data, currently the largest group in which transfers are not regulated is the municipalities, some of which also refuse to sign contracts for undisputed agricultural land and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. In cases of refusal of signature of these contracts, however, there is a possibility that an appropriate action may be brought by the Fund, which is also the case with the Fund. However, of course, such a solution can be delayed. With regard to the Court of Auditors, I can state what they have done in accordance. Firstly, the Fund has accepted a commitment to complete all transfers within four years, which is up to 31. 12. 2010 or until then, he will file all charges for transfer. Each year, the Fund provides for a reduction of about 25% of the land still to be identified or transferred. Secondly, a special service for these matters was organized within the Fund. There are currently only two employees employed in this service, due to human resources restrictions. In cases that I have already mentioned - rejecting the signature of transfer contracts by municipalities, the Fund consistently submits actions to this transfer. In municipalities too, the future fund consistently insists on the reciprocity of transfers. Which means that the municipalities are expected to simultaneously sign contracts for land going to the municipalities. Most of the time it is building land, as you said, as well as land coming from the congregation to the fund. The Fund also thinks that, of course, it is not yet a formal initiative to propose to the Government or, firstly, to the Ministry of Justice a change in the law on compliance if transfers do not approach the objective pursued. For the time being, they believe that these transfers will take place within the time limit set. As far as the leases are concerned. The Fund shall indicate that it is broadcasting agricultural land according to the data of the cadastrals, in accordance with the price list published. However, if, of course, these cadastral data differ from the actual situation, the amount of the rent or the actual situation shall be determined by the Commission on the basis of the initiative. The amount of the lease will then depend on the actual situation and also the mandatory component of each lease offer. With regard to the policy of the Fund, I would like to say that it follows the objectives which are known: to improve the ownership and parcel structure of land owned by the Republic of Slovenia. I must say that the fund has already adopted a sales and purchase programme this year and that the new rules on the functioning of the world can also respond to individual cases, the need to buy if such cases arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I thank you for this answer from the fund. I can agree with him in part, although these problems, which are in nature, in the municipalities that I wanted to introduce to you in plastics, I find it difficult to understand that the number of human resources potentials available for such a solution is a problem. I believe that some municipalities may complicate matters, but some want to get transferred and replaced as soon as possible, because some municipalities are chronically lacking in building land. The development plans they have in the congregation are waiting for these procedures to turn slowly and wait for those surfaces. People say, "When will it be?" "What happens, yes, when we get a contract from the fund, when we transfer it to the congregation, we will go into procedures, possibly business zones, individual and so on." This is a problem that concerns, I will say, the great Slovenian municipalities with which I have spoken before I have drawn up this question, so I would ask you as a minister, try in the interest of, I will say, ownership, in the interest of this land, which is an inactive land, which does not give to the state, nor to the municipalities, nor to the environment anything good, in the interest of a good host; but I regret that we do not yet have the provinces, because these provinces would probably bring this land closer to the municipalities or even to the congregations, I would even suggest that these things be transferred to the congregations, because in this case certainly there are better municipalities or the best master who knows what they will do with this land to be well placed for the future development of local communities; just please speed up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who is duly absent, will raise the question of mags. Majda Potter. Do you want to set up? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u249	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. For the second time, I am asking the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs about the work of social work centres. One year ago, I asked her how she would reorganise the work of the centres and how she would set standards and standards for the quality of the performance of all the tasks that social work centres have. That's when she told me about the pilot project, or would you point out what it would be like to have one of the centers? At that time, she had already found that, by transferring certain new tasks to social work centres, she should be counted and herself mentioned in the Act on Grants. And now that I am addressing the issue, this path, as a member of the Council of the Centre for Social Work, I therefore know not only the work of the centres from the media or as a user, but all the organisational embarrassments that the centres face and which the community of centres also draws attention to. The Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions by Alternative Penalties sends tasks to social work centres. 12 such employees were received, 700% increased in the labour force. The new Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence also imposes new tasks on social work centres. The same is true of the already mentioned law on scholarships. At social work centres, people are overburdened with burnout; as it is said, at work, with stress and excessive disease due to the inability to perform the tasks they have. In particular, he is concerned about everything that is related to the scholarship tasks. And there is a legitimate concern that the centres will not be able to carry out all the tasks. They will have to start doing these in the middle of the year, along with a scholarship award. Students and students will not be able to exercise their rights that they could exercise under the Law on Scholarship. My aim, therefore, is to find out from the Minister: How will these problems of new powers coming to the centres without adequate new staffing, without adequate standards and standards to ensure the quality of the work be carried out by the end of this mandate? Because, after all, there are people who depend on the good work of social work centers, a lot. Thank you. I expect an oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u250	Thank you very much. He will ask the Minister of Culture the question of the Magi. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good evening, to those of you who remain, including all three ministers. My question relates to the status of a monument of national importance - Mathausen camp in Ljubljana. The only concentration camp on the soil of today's Slovenia and the former Yugoslavia. Of course, it is known from the media that there is no concern such as that of an object that had the northern and southern parts and where, of course, the fates of many European nations have been met. And I think that this moment in this year, when we are chairing the European Union, is the right time for the camp to be better and better organized until that traditional celebration, which each year is the second Saturday in June, and to show the European people and all those to whom we are chairing and having a common positive history with them, that we do not care what happened in this place. The Ministry of Culture is the municipality of Tržič in the last year and more, a good interlocutor, but I am sure that things are happening too slowly. In a few weeks we'll get rid of the snow blankets and then it's almost June here and this celebration. It should be taken care of by a regular maintenance officer. A public company owned by the municipality of Tržič is prepared to provide us with the appropriate funds provided by the Ministry of Culture. And, now, what is most up to date, the memory room of the Mathausen camp is now in a formerly abandoned caravan, in inappropriate and unseemly conditions, and it itself offers an excellent location, namely, a border fence owned by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Public Administration. Here I am taking the initiative of the Ministry of Culture that part of those facilities, which are in excellent condition, with minimal costs, will take over management and maintenance and there, with the help of the local community, the museum of former surviving campers and their relatives, will arrange for a new, beautiful, eminent location at the time of entering Slovenia. They are also preparing something similar in neighbouring Austria, where former customs facilities and police will at least partially redesign it for this purpose. Maybe it's a good opportunity, so I'm taking the initiative to work together with the Ministry of Culture to develop a successful interaction that, at the site that used to be separated, would now be connected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u253	The question was not asked: Am I sticking to the question that you asked me? Well, you've got me a little embarrassed. Look, I'm still going to try to stick to that question you asked me, because now you haven't asked me. Now you've been talking about the initiative. So, I would say first, as you said in your initiative, that this is the only camp in Yugoslavia, in the former Yugoslavia. This is probably not true. These camps were something, not least after World War II, but in the late 1990 ’ s, probably one that could be compared to the unfortunate period of World War II. With regard to the traditional celebration, it is true that the Ministry of Culture has always come across, and every year it has contributed to this celebration. And I believe that it will also take place this year in a way and on that level that it will properly mark this time and remind people of this fate that many people from different nations have shared. Of course, I must say that the Ministry of Culture is constantly aware of this issue and is also working to address it properly. As was the case with your initiative and your question, it is two things, this is the place of the camp itself, and another for the memorial collection, which is in the former caravan in Ljubljana. As is probably known, the parcels on which the camp was established are located in the management of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and one parcel is owned by the Municipality of Tržič. We have ordered the Geodetic Authority to carry out a dose of land, but we have not yet obtained an appropriate decision from them, which would be the basis for the Lands of the Agricultural Land Fund to then act in such a way as to make a certain transfer. I believe that it would be most appropriate to have these lands directly owned and owned by the congregation and thereby acquire ownership of this land. This would also give the congregation a monument in its own possession, so that it could do the best and most responsible thing for itself, honor and pride, and at the same time for people, for visitors in the memory of a valuable visit. I think this would be the best thing to do, and it would also be a waste of reading to the state, not worrying about the appropriateness or the duality that is now happening, that perhaps sometimes there are responsibilities that have been erased, would thus be much clearer and more unequivocal. Moreover, you know that there were problems with one of the neighbors in that area who, with the consent of the Agricultural Land Fund, had used part of the land where the camp was located and planted livestock there. We've sent an inspector, and at least that's settled now. The second thing you were talking about was a memorial collection that was placed in the basement of a former caravan. This is the property of the Ministry of Defence, but this building, as I have information today, has already purchased the tenant and he has no interest in having this collection there, so we are negotiating with the Market Museum on moving the collection to the Market Museum. The new space, as I have been informed, has already been provided at the museum premises, but electricity and certain things will still have to be arranged. This will be a monument and a memorial room, which refers to this camp as a whole, if it is transferred to the marketing community, so that it will be fully in the hands of the marketing community, which I think will be the best and most responsible to deal with this valuable monument of state importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Saivitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I didn't start with a question, not to mention unpleasant things, because I didn't want to embarrass you, but I'm taking your answer without a doubt for, as I would say, "foolish" on your part. It is well known that if some monument is of national importance, it is taken care of by the state, probably not because of some folklore, but because something important has happened there. And if the monument is in bad condition, it is a poor mirror to the state, and we are ashamed of it in the congregation because it is so, and that is why we care for it, but we have decided to ask for more understanding and cooperation this year. It's simple, that's what this is all about. We cannot transfer monuments of state importance to the municipality's own, but the Ministry asked us if where the famous monument is located, I charge, on the municipal plot, if we move it to the state and the ministry; for 12 years it was a problem, with my term of office we solved it in three months and we have a positive decision. I repeat, again, after all verified historical facts, this is the only concentration camp of the German Reich on the ground of today's Slovenia, and we, who are associated with this story in any way, are convinced that, like the Franje hospital, as well as some similar monuments, deserve attention, especially this year when we are presiding over the European Union, that we really show ourselves there in the real light that we respect this common unfortunate history, which may have brought Europe closer together and strengthened. Once again, I give a well-intentioned initiative - the country has an empty customs and police facility on its border deck, with minimal costs we arrange a memorial room there for the Mauthausen Taboriščea, which will be proud of Slovenia and its presidency.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u256	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u257	Thank you very much. So, far from making jokes out of things like that, or as you call'stupid jokes'. No, I wasn't. I never work out of it. Only those who like to talk about this history are you using it and you don't understand it. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] That's it. [[...]] In the meantime, you make comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u258	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u259	And behave as you should. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u260	Please. Mr. Secretary, proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u261	Well, that's never what I'm made of. However, I think that those who have spoken about it many times have always used it for political purposes. Always. And they have less with that past than I have with her. Much less. And they knock on it, they blink, and they never did anything or knew anything. The monument of State importance does not mean that it is maintained by the State. That's not true. Many monuments of state importance are proclaimed and must be dealt with in this regard and responsible. I didn't mean far from carrying anything to the congregation. I mean, transferred to the congregation only in the sense of being better, more responsible. But I understand from your talk that it's money, of course. That's basically the problem. I think the Ministry of Culture has shown in recent years that since 1996 it has given about €80,000 for this. Every year, funds are especially contributed to the celebration, and this has never warmed up. This minister has never denied any help either. I am talking about how to deal better and better with this monument, which needs to be clearly preserved and, of course, must also be properly maintained. The Ministry of Culture will never deny assistance in moving the collection or in maintaining it, with a single large amount. And if necessary, further help in maintaining this. But I think it's better if one maintenance and owner of this, that is, the space to act as responsible as I said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Saivitz, here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u263	Thank you very much. In view of the importance of the topic, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I would also like to request that this be discussed at the next meeting of the National Assembly. This is an important issue, and if I have correctly understood the Minister of Culture that the country is better prepared to cooperate than it has been so far, then it is no doubt time to sit down and resolve the matter further. However, if, for example, maintaining and preparing the space itself costs the municipality at least 5,000 euros and the ministry is committed to fighting 1,500 euros, then it is not because we as a municipality can make Yes, of course, Minister, money is a problem! [[...]] You can't keep 50 years of old walls free! The collection, which dances in an old abandoned caravan, is not a mirror and pride of Slovenia, this is what this is about. We are ready to invest work, effort and energy. A foreigner who comes from France, from Poland, from Tržič we take one euro there and we are with him for three hours, we tell him, we tell him history. But for what goes down, where they graze around the camp and pigs and cows roar, for those great stories I ask for the help of the state, nothing more. The question was neither malicious nor obvious, but I expect it to be in the coming weeks of meetings at the Ministry; if that is not the case, then I think we will have to point out this in June when the celebration is there. And I invite one of the ministers to come to this place, for example, Foreign Minister Dimitrij Rupel and invite another colleague. A few Poles, Frenchmen, and others died there, so let us give this city a worthy seal. Of course, culture is also a cost on the one hand, but it cannot be fully or mostly passed on to the local community because it is a monument of state importance, very simple.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u264	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Sajovica, that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture to his question of the Member State, will decide in the framework of the vote on Thursday, 27 March 2008. Please, Mr. Weber, procedurally? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u265	Thank you for your word, chairman. I propose that you warn the Minister of Culture that he is acting primarily culturally in Parliament. At the time of his reply, I did not ask or speak of anything, and I do not know why I am sick of being an MP from that ministerial post he occupied. So this is an extremely rude behaviour of the Minister, and I would like to ask you to remind him next time of such unacceptable gestures that he is carrying out in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! There is a good chance that we will talk about this in the coming months: How and how to deal with the issue of compensation for material harm to the victims of World War II? In the Group of Social Democrats, we consider this to be encouraging news, although we are aware of the extreme difficulty of the issue that we will face. It is encouraging to note, for all three and a half years of the Minister's rule, that this is one of the issues that has not yet been settled, that two questions have been raised by the Member States, that such a law, which is now ready, should also be classified as an obligation of the Government in the law on the completion of denationalisation procedures and have always been rejected. It seems that the demands of the associations of material damage to the wars, in particular the demands of the expulsion society and perhaps our initiative to ensure that the expulsion society is entitled to an adequate response from the Minister, have led the Minister to say that he is extremely quick, he might say, brilliantly, reacting by informing us that he is preparing the law. The next day, after this publication, he published a law at a press conference and sent it to us in the parliamentary group, for which I have to thank him. On this point, however, I would like to ask the following question. Since you have responded so quickly to our initiative and have sent us a draft draft law on the recovery of property damage from World War II, we ask you: Is the law only sent to us for information and can you tell us by what procedure and by what time will the law be dealt with in the Government? In particular, our equal cooperation in drafting the law may be possible before the government's hearing, in order to find common solutions, to ensure its consensual or at least as much consensus as possible in the National Assembly, but not to be used as a new form of mutual disputes and politicisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you also for the question to the honourable Member. The arrangement of the material damages of World War II is one of the commitments that this government has made in its coalition contract. From the very beginning, we have been looking for ways to address this issue. But there are real possibilities; although we have already announced the idea of resolving this issue in the first year of our mandate; to resolve this extremely difficult issue, we have begun to show in the third year of our mandate. We were not able to prepare the draft law in a very short time and brilliantly, but we have been working intensively on this draft for at least half a year. As you refer to in your question, the Ministry of Justice is to all leaders of the parliamentary groups and Members of the national communities, of 20. 3. mediated a draft working paper on the proposal for a law on the recovery of property damage from World War II. The content of this draft law relates to the arrangements for the definitive recovery of the property army damage caused in the territory of the present Republic of Slovenia during World War II. With regard to your question, I explain to you that the content of the draft law is being previously consulted with non-governmental organisations in the field of material war damage. In doing so, I would point out, in addition to the NGOs mentioned by us, the parent association of material damage victims of World War II, with which we have been in contact, as well as with other NGOs, all the time. Following the end of this consultation with NGOs, the law-making process will continue. The draft law to the parliamentary groups and Members and Members of the national communities was not transmitted for information, but rather for prior information. If Member States or Members and Members of the national community assess that it is necessary, in terms of legitimacy and transparency, to prepare the content of the bill, to exchange their views on the proposed solutions, the Ministry is prepared to cooperate. I myself am prepared to come personally to a meeting with each Member Group or with a Member or Member of the national community as soon as possible. I don't think that's gonna be possible this week because we have intensive work to do in the National Assembly. But I'm sure next week, at least as far as the Minister of Justice is concerned, we could find a suitable deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please. Would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, supplementary questions. I'm not going to argue with whether the law could be drafted sooner than in three and a half years or not. I believe we've been getting some information that you've been trying. I'm not going to say that he's ready now just because he's under constant pressure in public, even less that he's ready for pre-election time. However, I would like two complementary questions or your most precise answers, if possible. Firstly, I have understood that with the associations dealing with this issue, the law is not yet harmonised and that prior coordination is ongoing. In this regard, I wonder whether they will be organised only in the form of sending written materials and expectations to send written or oral comments, or whether there will be any coordination at meetings where it is much easier; because it is also for people who are not real skills, as well as some older ones, to explain some proposals and opinions, as well as to write specific amendments to what the law should look like. And another, which I am equally interested in, or perhaps even more: Are you prepared, before the government procedure, to interview the parties and the parliamentary groups that are interested in this, with the desire to come up with a common text submitted to the Government and the National Assembly, once again, with a view to clarifying each other's views and forming a text that could be adopted without political competition at the National Assembly in due course?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u273	Thank you, too, for this additional question. As far as coordination with NGOs is concerned, we will use all possible forms of cooperation and coordination, not only in writing, but also personal meetings, if necessary. I have met with representatives of these organisations on my own several occasions, including my co-workers within the Ministry, and of course we will continue this practice. With regard to further cooperation, or with regard to indications that there is some pre-election competition or prestigious activity, I have already initially explained that the adoption of this law was a coalition commitment. It's in the coalition contract from the very beginning, so no one can say anything about it. I also explained that real conditions must also be provided for the implementation of this law and that this is not an easy task. There is still a very difficult task. With regard to cooperation with all parliamentary groups, let me repeat only what I have already said that I am certainly ready to meet with all those who would show this interest and to exchange all views and every possibility of finding optimal solutions regarding the content of the law and the way it is implemented before the law goes into operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u275	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, too, Minister! In 2004, we adopted a resolution in the National Assembly on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in RS, which provided that 1.98 billion euros would be provided from state resources and 1.56 billion euros from external resources. Such a designed structure today would provide a positive result for the management of a highway network of half a billion euros. So we wouldn't have to face loss, but actually with a plus. And the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways also envisaged that, after 2009, an additional motorway programme should be developed and, in particular, the construction of so-called development axes. In view of the fact that the Government, without amending the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways, has changed its way of financing and decided to finance through debt, this financial structure has been disrupted within the resolution on the construction of motorways. Today, we are faced with a proposal to introduce vineyards that further raise a number of questions and raise, above all, the issue of repayments of debts arising from leased loans. An even bigger question is asked for areas where development axes are to be built. This is the third development axis, the third A development axis, the third B and the fourth development axis, and it is in these areas that people will actually pay significantly more tolls by paying vineyards than those in areas where the motorway is going through. This is a very negative effect of the introduction of vineyards, so we are transferring the costs to people who do not have a highway. I therefore ask you, Mr. Minister, what effect will the introduction of vignettes on geographical areas in Slovenia that are away from the highway crossing have had, for some time now, seeking to establish faster road links? Can you assure me that the consequences of the introduction of vineyards will not be reflected in the further delay in the construction of motorways and fast roads on the mentioned development axis areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your question, Mr Member. In addition to other positive effects, the introduction of vignettes from a price point of view will have the most positive effect on all drivers who make significant use of the motorway system. However, for all those users who are mainly driving within regions that are far from the motorway cross, the question is somehow irrelevant as the system of motorways is not used. But what I think is personally crucial to the introduction of vineyards is that we want to bring highways closer to people and increase labour mobility. These areas are also subject to these facts. In the light of the verification of the different options regarding the price and duration, the annual and semi-annual versions of the vineyard at which the price of the annual use of the motorway network can be shown were appropriate in terms of acceptability, as close as possible to the home user. Let me also mention the fact that the existing system also does not allow ideal tolling in accordance with the principle of distance payment, and that the vignette tolling system is only a transitional solution. The principle of real toll accounting will only allow what is our goal, satellite tolling in free traffic. As part of the preparation of plans for the introduction of the vignette tolling system for passenger cars in the Republic of Slovenia, several pricing options and simulation scenarios have been verified, with the aim of offering an optimal solution both in financial and social terms. In doing so, we have paid particular attention to the need for future revenues from the vineyards available to Dars as a concessionaire for the operation and maintenance of the motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia to enable the settlement of current business obligations and servicing of investment loans obligations. On the basis of the simulations and calculations carried out, the introduction of the vinite toll system will not affect the establishment or construction of those quick links within the framework of the so-called development axes. The project to build new roads and modernise existing roads in the development axes 3A, 3B and 4 is one of the priority projects of the Resolution on national development projects for 2007 and 2023. These are road links with Austria in Koroška to the border with Croatia in Bela Krajina, in the case of the third development axis, for the road connection of the Ljubljana motorway ring against the fishing-kočev area in the case of 3A development axis and for the connection with the border with Italy in the Upper Soča, via Želenen towards Škofja Loka and Logatc in the case of the fourth development axis. Three different sources of funding are identified in the resolution for the implementation of the project on the modernisation of the road links of priority development axes. Budget resources, European Cohesion Policy funds, Regional Development Fund funds and private resources. Under the appropriations, there are some major actions on the development axes, I am talking about the outskirts of Škofljica, Škofja Loka, Tolmin, Gorenje Vas; the construction of Cerkno-Hotavlje: construction outside the level crossings, new construction in the area of the third development axis and others also defined in the Operational Programme on Environmental and Transport Infrastructure Development 2007-2013. Some projects are already ready for construction and others, including the construction of the Škofljica bypass, the new construction on the Cerkno-Hotavlje section, the new road in the area of the third development axis, are still in the space frame and the beginning of the construction depends mainly on how quickly the agreement on their course will be reached in the space. For the most part, the most appropriate alternative solutions made in the preparation of the State Spatial Plan have already been presented to space regulators and the public. Given the responses to the solutions presented and the search for compromises, there are delays in the deadlines set for the adoption of the State Spatial Plan Regulation and, consequently, the delay in the start of construction. Once a basic compromise is reached in space, investment documentation will also identify or explore ways of financing and building dynamics in the case of the third development axis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u279	Thank you for the answers, although I must admit that I cannot agree in any way with the Minister's conclusions that the introduction of vignettes does not affect these areas. I reiterate that if anyone from Kočevska, Koroška or Idrija-Cerkljanski will have to buy at least half a year's worth of wine, he may have to leave once a year. We thereby increase the cost and burden the inhabitants in areas that the motorways will not have for a long time. In view of the fact that the resolution on the construction of motorways envisaged that we would start already in 2009 with intensive developmental axis building, the resources provided would also be asked: Can we provide 1.98 billion euros for these development axes from the state budget, as envisaged in the resolution on motorways? On the other hand, if we put ourselves in the skin and position of these areas today, we can find that these areas need these roads today, we do not know when. Because the fact that comes from all of these explanations that we have heard is that we do not actually know the year of completion of the construction and even less the years when the resources are provided for the construction of these development axes. And I think it would already be much smarter to give 8 million euros at this stage, rather than to break down the toll stations to regulate the main regional roads, or rather, instead of printing 8 million euros, i.e. to carry out the vignette project, as well as to maintain regional and main roads, and the effect would be significantly more visible and transparent and cost-effectiveness of spending resources would be much greater than at the moment we face the collapse and re-establishment of a system that is not at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I agree with you that, of course, the vignette system is not the most just. The one we have now is even worse. It's definitely that they pay a lot and one pays nothing. However, I would also like to point out that this toll system is not complete, that this is the first step, as the President of the Government has mentioned today, that this is the first step towards the end of fair tolling, when we pay as much as we transport. And I think that's the right way. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] [[...]] As far as funding is concerned, I think that the path that has been taken and that the motorway cross has been financed in recent years by loans or loans, that this was the right way, or perhaps the speed of construction of motorways would have been much slower, especially now that the issue is so problematic due to rapid traffic growth. As far as the anniversary is concerned, I agree that we cannot accurately predict it at this time. You are witnessing or all of us are witnessing the case of the third development axis, when we all had a good feeling that it was the best or the most convenient, most optimally chosen option, at first it was kind of well accepted, and then it actually fell across its entire length. So now, together with the local community, we are looking for options to adapt the route to the wishes of the local community, in accordance with the comments. As regards the maintenance of roads, state, regional and so on, it must be said that between 2005 and this year these funds were increased by 123% and that we stopped somewhere at EUR 250 million. So we have significantly increased investment in road infrastructure. And if that hadn't been done, it would have been so much worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u282	Thank you very much. The Minister of Transport will be asked a question by Mrs Majda Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! I refer the question to the Minister of Transport. In recent times, municipalities have been speeded up in receiving proposals for enforcement, which are intended to refer to unpaid invoices for maintenance of level crossings and represent a large proportion of the municipal budget for a variety of municipalities. Holding Slovenian Railways sends invoices to municipalities to maintain the transitions under the 1972 legislation, which required an agreed form of maintenance or cost-sharing. In 2000, a new law on rail safety was adopted, which provides in Article 29 that the maintenance of the crossings is 100% of the cost of the railway operator. Most municipalities refused to pay the services they had received for the reason that the costs of maintaining level crossings were not proportionally shared by 2000 and that they were no longer obliged to do so under the new law. Such understanding was also represented in the Community of Associations of the municipalities of Slovenia. Moreover, during his term of office, Dr Jurkovic, former director of the Slovenian Railways, even presented a proposal to regulate this issue, which would run in three variants, in order to ensure that there would be no recovery in proceedings in the courts which had been completed and that no new proceedings against municipalities would be brought. However, there was no final solution. However, since in Slovenia, according to some estimates, there are 131 municipalities that are expected to owe Slovenia as much as €8 million in total to Slovenian railways, I believe that this is a broader problem, which threatens to jeopardise the functioning of municipal budgets in many ways, and in particular to interfere with the programmes set up in the implementation of investment facilities. Mr. Secretary, I ask you what you will do in your field to solve this problem properly and once and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u284	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for the question as well. I must say that the issue mentioned in the question came to my attention shortly after I took over the minister's mandate. Your comments on the question are correct. A similar question was raised in the Council of State in 2005 and it was then answered that we would seek additional funding from the 2009 budget, or that we would try to prepare a new railway legislation, which was then in the preparatory phase, to install an article that would set the matter back. This did not happen, the last one mentioned precisely because of the problem of retroactivity. We have not been able to solve the problem even with the 2008 budget. This one, like everyone else, was adopted in the National Assembly. The problem that arose before 2005 remained unresolved until today. On your current question of what I will do to solve the problem properly and for all time, I must say that at the Ministry of Transport, now that the proposed possible solutions have been exhausted, we have in writing proposed a solution to the Ministry of Finance, namely that, at the time of the 2008 budget rebalancing, the corresponding additional financial resources should be granted to the affected municipalities to settle these obligations. We need to know that Slovenian railways are a private law company, which is owned by the State. In this regard, a meeting of three ministries, transport, finance, local self-government, which is expected to take place in the coming days, will also be organised at my initiative and together we will try to find a suitable solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u286	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who is rightly absent, will ask Mr Samo Bevk a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u287	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! At the time of granting 20 concessions for the maintenance of the household care of the elderly, the Minister also made it clear that there were about 4,000 older people waiting to be admitted to the home and, at the same time, optimistically announced that a number of those waiting in the next few years would be considerably reduced. But the ageing trend project is extremely unpleasant. The number of people over 65 years of age is expected to double in Europe and consequently in Slovenia by 2025. In response to my question last October, regarding the promotion of investments provided by the Law on Public-Private Partnership, you have announced a special pilot project in the field of home for the elderly. You added that you would like to test carefully with the pilot project only in a few cases possible solutions to the public private partnership, which will then be able to serve if it is also a good basis for further longer-term solutions. As one of the possible sources for co-financing investments in this area, you also mentioned the financial assets of the real estate fund of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. The government rejected the business plan of the real estate fund and ordered the fund to start investing in homes for the elderly. I ask Minister of Labour Marjeto Cotman: How will the financing of new buildings and major investment maintenance works be carried out in the field of institutional care of older people on the basis of the public-private partnership, and through the funds of the real estate fund? According to the available data, the work of the project design group on the basis of the public-private partnership has already started, so I wonder: Can we expect the first concrete results in a short period of time? I also ask the Minister: How will you implement projects to build a new home that are in the adopted state budgets? Among other things, I am interested in a concrete investment from my constituency in Idrija. The decision to start this investment was taken on 16 May 2003, when Dr Vlado Dimovski was Minister. At that time, two new ministers arrived. So, how are you going to financially cover this investment? When will construction begin in concrete terms, and will it be from the state budget, or will it be from the public-private partnership or from the real estate fund, given that so far there have been already €521,000 invested in this investment in projects and in the acquisition of a building permit already issued? I ask for an answer at the first next meeting when the Minister is present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u288	Thank you very much. The Minister of Finance will be asked a question by the rapporteur, Mr Mag. Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u289	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of Finance: What are the financial aspects of introducing vignettes into the toll system? How will this affect the state of guarantees or the ability of Darsa d.d. to repay loans independently for the construction of motorways? This is based on two studies, government studies. Studies, analyses of the economic eligibility of the temporary introduction of vignettes for the use of certain roads in the Republic of Slovenia, signed by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, and studies commissioned by Dars for the long-term sustainability of the construction of the motorway in the event that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia from the state budget does not co-finance the motorway from 2005-2008. The main findings of these studies are: UMAR, it is not economically justified to introduce vignettes; Darsa's studies, unless the construction of motorways from the budget is financed in 2005-2008, will need to increase by at least 40% the revenues from tolls from 2009 and at the same time around EUR 200 million for 2009 to 2013 to re-cofinance the highway programme from the state budget. Mr Finance Minister, regardless of how your mandate ends, how you plan to ensure equal returns on tolls at the time of the introduction of the vineyards and how you intend to compensate for the loss of funds that Dars has not received, and to ensure that we do not go either to Hungarian or Croatian highway construction models, where the State of Public Finance covers the obligations of these motorway companies, particularly in Hungary. There are some nuances in Croatia. I'm surprised that you're in the government because I didn't understand that we would be against the government, agreeing with our colleague, the Minister of Transport, that a new study is ready for once, and that says that revenue will be 10% more. In what way? In this particular case, please explain: Can only semi-annual and annual vignettes be introduced into the Slovenian toll system? And if we have already decided on a system of vineyards and carrying the burden on tourists who will be through [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Why do we even introduce vinjets? [[...]] Why don't we make the highway completely free for Slovenian drivers?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In addition, the starting point of the introduction of the vinite tolling system for passenger vehicles was to provide for an appropriate level of income provided by Dars d.d. through the concessional duty, it directs towards repayment of the outstanding liabilities under investment loans. In 2007, the latter amounted to EUR 111.8 million and in 2008 it is foreseen for EUR 124.6 million. In view of Darsa’s projected costs as the maintenance and operator of the motorway network, the toll system should thus provide around 180 million net revenues for the concession fee in 2008, with the existing system also being planned. The latter also provided a framework for the selection and introduction of the vignette toll system adopted by the Government at its meeting on 20.3.2008. Of course, we are aware that it is imperative to ensure the autonomy of the financial resource and that Dars will in fact be able to pay all the duties he has accepted so far during this period. In view of the above, it is anticipated that in 2008 we will reach a level of income that we will also actually exceed those achieved with the existing system by about 10% more. The assessment of the number of buyers of vineyards for passenger cars, buyers of annual or semi-annual vineyards is around 3 million pieces, with a degree of probability depending on the willingness of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and on transit transport for the use of the motorway network at the price offered, taking into account the price and income elasticity of the purchase. So for the first year of operation of the vignette system, this is in 2008, in addition to the funds we will raise with the existing system by mid-year and beyond for all trucks of the same system, only with this difference in passenger vehicles, as well as 3.5 tonnes, will reach over 200 million, that is to say 10% more than is foreseen in the current system. In 2009, a total of 217.5 million net revenue is foreseen for freight tolls and passenger vehicles. In this way, we believe that the introduction of vineyards will have no negative effects on Darsa's state of guarantee and ability - this is your key question - to repay independently the loans that have been or are being leased for the construction of the motorway network. Let me repeat what the President of the Government has also mentioned today in his reply to a similar question that it is a transitional system. In fact, we are going to satellite tolling for trucks over 3.5 tonnes, not later than next year, mid-term. And the final solution that we're looking for is that we're going to have a free cross crossing with satellite tolling for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u293	Mr Minister, if you would like to show me a study signed in the same way as the study of the analysis of the economic eligibility of the provisional introduction of vignettes for the use of certain roads, which concluded: "We estimate that the introduction of vignettes for the transitional period is not economically justified. Signed Jure Fovšnar, Maja Ferjančič, Janez Kušar, Director Janez Šuštersič, 15 April 2005." Show me an equivalent study signed by an institution that is not politically dependent on the government, which Umar should in principle not be, which confirms your thesis. Minister, if your thesis is correct that tolls in Slovenia will now be paid by tourists travelling across Slovenia, Minister, someone who drives to Ljubljana every day spends about €1,100 to 1,200 per toll per year. From €55, about, say, on average 120, 130 kilometers, you have on average reduced its cost by 19 times, from €1,100, 1,200 to €55. Why don't you cut him the cost by 20 times and he won't pay anything? And for this 5, 10 Euros, you're just going to encourage foreigners who are driving across Slovenia. If this is as simple as you say, by the way, you have calculated that EUR 55 is the right price, that the 35 euro price for semi-annual wine is also legally possible from the point of view of European law, why can we simply not abolish the payment of tolls in Slovenia for Slovenian citizens? According to this logic of yours, because you have reduced someone's payment obligation by 19 times, but the income is higher, reduce it by 20 times! And last but not least, Mr. Minister, in order for someone to be so subsidized, the mother who drove to Bézé or the other day had to pay the euro or two, had to subsidise it because instead of paying 2 euros to go to Brezje, 35 euros. Explain that to me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u294	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u295	Very briefly, or we will have the opportunity to have a broader debate in the National Assembly, as far as this is concerned. There's only one thing I'd like to say. All studies in the past have not taken note of the fact that we are to a large extent a transit country, that the departures and arrivals to the Republic of Slovenia in 2007 were over 48 million vehicles and that the assessment made is very conservative, as far as this is concerned. However, we are convinced that it is not a perfect system, as a colleague, the Minister of Transport, has answered your previous question. The fact is that the current system is also far from being just. Only two thirds of those who really use the system actually pay for it. However, here in this plan, this decision, which has been adopted, is a key plan for transit to actually pay for its entry into Slovenia and to solve our long-term problem as well. Otherwise, we insist that the long-term solution is the satellite system, which will be introduced at the latest in the middle of next year for trucks and, as soon as possible, for the free movement of all vehicles through this satellite system, which is actually the only one fair, because then we will pay only on the basis of how much everyone will use it, and on the basis of the anticipated financial needs, that we will continue not only to maintain the system but also pay it in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. You've got practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u297	My procedural proposal is to speed up this forthcoming debate in the National Assembly, to discuss the answer or the failure of the Minister of Finance, because the difficulties, of course, are very problematic to me. The thesis that transit will pay for this simply means that instead of Schengen, we will introduce a wine border in Slovenia. We released the Schengen on January 1st, now it will be necessary to make a wine barrier at the top of the Shentyl border. There are estimates in the UMAR study that this is a huge risk because people can avoid it. In Salzburg, instead of the freeway to Vienna, Budapest and Belgrade. Very simple. Who says people will drive 35 euros across Slovenia? That's the first thesis. Another thesis, which is wrong, on so-called conservativeness and that Slovenians are not all involved in paying vignettes or highways. True, the price of a square meter apartment to the toll station and toll stations is precisely known in the vicinity of Ljubljana. The difference is the cost of the motorway station. And I agree with you, I agree that the people of Grosuplja are also starting to pay for the use of motorways, but relatively use, not just flat-rate. We have people driving around Ljubljana on the curbs, and now they're going to be driving around the inner ring, and it's going to be an additional burden, for example, just a metropolis. Satellites. The story of the satellites, Mr. Secretary, is very familiar to you. The satellite system is not economically sustainable, so the European budget had to allocate 2.4 billion subsidies to private individuals who found that Galileo and other systems with all the problems of freight tolling in Germany would simply not be so quickly feasible. We both know it won't be. Until we have a single Dars d.d. For Europe, it will be very difficult for you to have a single satellite toll. Very hard. This is also the experience of other countries. And so, Mr. Minister, if they have made any changes to the SDS, why do you, as Minister of Finance, who is the party responsible for the guarantees, allow such changes? Mr. Minister, you signed the guarantee agencies, you know very well that the lenders decided to give credit to Dars because they knew there was a certain financial flow. If it were that simple, Minister, we'd have changed that ten years ago. It didn't work out. I therefore propose, Members and distinguished ministers, that we have this debate in the April session. Bring the study, and let's discuss the study until it's too late, because we both know when we start the vignette, there's no government that can shut it down. Thank you very much. Please. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u298	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. It has been said that the National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question of the Member State, in the context of the vote on Thursday, 27 March 2008. The Minister of Foreign Affairs - which is unfortunately not - will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who is also absent, the question of the Magis. Janez Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u299	At this meeting, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will accept the ratification of the social agreement with the Republic of Bosnia, i.e. with the former Republic of the former Yugoslavia. This social agreement imposes considerable obligations on the Republic of Slovenia, in particular because this agreement is prepared disproportionately. So far, two agreements have been concluded with the former republics, namely Macedonia and Croatia. In Croatia, it was found at the time of the Drnovška government that some 180 beneficiaries and a certain amount of funds were to be paid by the Republic of Slovenia. After a good year, these obligations turned out to be about 10 times that much. The agreement with Bosnia is prepared on the basis of the same or the same model. These include health insurance, child allowances, pension insurance, maternity leave benefits and pensions. This proposal for the ratification of the social agreement with Bosnia does not contain the number of beneficiaries or the budget obligations. I believe that there is no direct commitment to the budget. However, given that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia makes at least a contribution to the pension fund or to the budget of pension and disability insurance, it is certain that commitments will also fall into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course it's the taxpayers. There are no such calculations, not how much funding will be needed. This question was answered by the Committee, with some €18 million per year. Given that we expect similar agreements with all other countries of the former Yugoslavia, this will be a very heavy burden for taxpayers, not only for the 2008 or 2009 budget, but for all future generations. This, of course, if we calculate quickly, means the sum in three years is significantly greater than the liabilities in the title, say, the Ljubljana Bank. Under the rules, the child allowance is not linked at all to employment and is not related to the employment relationship. It also applies to residence. So stay. Therefore, in my opinion, it is entirely unjustified for him to be included in this agreement. Neither does the transfer of pensions based on this Agreement [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I therefore ask: How many of these beneficiaries are covered by this title and what will Slovenia's obligations to implement such an agreement be foreseen? Is this money provided in the 2008 budget [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u301	Thank you very much. At this March meeting, the National Assembly will indeed address these two draft laws, namely the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the administrative agreement on the implementation of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on Social Security between the Republic of Slovenia and the Argentine Republic and an administrative arrangement for the implementation of the Convention on Social Security between the Republic of Slovenia and the Argentine Republic. Social security agreements mainly regulate insurance rights. These are the rights for which workers have paid their contributions and are therefore entitled to benefits on the basis of the contributions paid if an insurance case arises. It should also be added that the financial implications will not directly burden the state budget as you have already determined, but will be allocated from the budgets of the competent institutions - the Pension and Disability Insurance Office and the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia to which the contributions have been paid and they already have these funds. The Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina is the third in line to be concluded by the Republic of Slovenia with the countries of the former SFRJ. Slovenia has already concluded a bilateral agreement on social security with Croatia and Macedonia. The starting point for the conclusion of the agreement and the administrative arrangement was the initiative to conclude the social security agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which the Committee of the National Assembly for Foreign Policy considered and agreed with it on 12 December 2000. During the negotiations, the negotiating parties failed to agree on some open issues, and in February 2007 the Slovenian side extended the negotiating mandate with a proposal to include the Institute of Recalculation of already recognised pensions. And this made the text definitively harmonised. The agreement will allow beneficiaries to obtain rights from social security systems, for example, a proportionate part of the pension, emergency health care and other rights. The financial implications of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina relate to the area of health insurance, unemployment insurance, pension and disability insurance and the area of parental protection and family benefits. This is estimated to amount to approximately EUR 15 million per year to EUR 768 000 235. There is also a need to add the funds needed for the recalculation of pensions estimated by the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute at around EUR 8 million 345 thousand 852. The Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina was signed after six rounds of negotiations on 19 February 2007 in Sarajevo and in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the administrative agreement on the implementation of the Agreement was signed in Sarajevo on 7 November 2007. As regards the Convention on Social Security between the Republic of Slovenia and the Argentine Republic. For the Republic of Slovenia, the conclusion of the Convention and the administrative arrangement are of great importance as it is interested in protecting and ensuring the social security of its citizens. With the conclusion of the Convention, Slovenians living and working in Argentina will be given the opportunity to enjoy rights from Argentine pensions and invalidity insurance in the event of their return to their homeland. Persons who have completed the period of insurance in Slovenia and Argentina will thus be able to exercise entitlements to benefits from pension and disability insurance in each Party and obtain rights in proportion to the completed period of insurance. According to data from the Office for Slovenians around the world and in place of 2002, the number of Slovenians and their descendants living in Argentina is estimated to be around 30,000. The Convention covers only pension and disability insurance, since Argentina is a overseas country and such conventions do not include other areas of social security. In order to comply with the Convention and the administrative arrangement, it is not necessary to provide additional funding from the State budget, but it has the resources provided by the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u303	We have cases of regulating such a social security agreement, such as between the Czech Republic and Slovakia, where obligations arising prior to disengagement are covered by each State within its jurisdiction. That could actually be the case. That's the first one. Secondly, the agreement with Argentina for our country is not problematic because greater obligations are in the opposite direction, so our citizens have a more favourable position. There's something else that's gonna happen. With the entry of this Social Insurance Agreement, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have paid into the pension fund of Bosnia and Herzegovina will immediately be in a worse position and procedures will be initiated by law, which has been specifically adopted for citizens who have acquired rights in other republics, otherwise our citizens will find themselves in a very difficult economic situation and these funds should also be provided for to ensure the decent pensions of our citizens who have acquired insurance in the former republics of Yugoslavia, in particular in this case of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are, in fact, the concerns I have raised in the conclusion of social agreements and the concerns that will always arise in the following countries. Sooner or later, agreements will also have to be concluded with the following countries, with Montenegro, Serbia, and commitments will fall on Slovenia. Of course, I believe it is difficult to move from one model to another, when the error was made in 1997 at the time of the Drnovskov government. All these agreements follow the same model, but there is no need for everyone to follow the same model.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u304	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions of Members and Members, where only one question is addressed to the Minister without a licence responsible for coordination, monitoring, implementation of the development strategy of Slovenia and the Minister of Finance. He'll be put up by Mr. Mag. Milan Squeakle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u305	Good evening. Thank you both ministers for joining or Minister Turk, for joining him and for insisting on the Minister of Finance. My question is very simple. My colleague Pecanovo and I asked a written question and received answers. These answers are quite different. Minister Turk simply says, as responsible for coordinating, monitoring and implementing the strategy for the development of Slovenia, that it is possible to combine domestic operators for the project of the implementation of the integrated tax system, but is not entirely convinced that they have sufficient references. My thesis and the thesis raised in the question is very simple. In contrast to the first potential SAP supplier, SAP is simply excluded because no one in Slovenia has ever been able to build an integrated tax information system for a country that has around EUR 9 billion of the budget and so much and so many transactions. Therefore, my topic and my question to the Minister for Development, if I simplify, are as follows: How will domestic integrators and domestic IT advisers build on top platforms if they do not get the "source code" from SAP? SAP hasn't given anyone the source of the code yet, we probably know that. In any Slovenian company, they depend on SAPs in narcas, integrators. The question to the Minister of Finance is: What is the current situation with regard to that call? We know we have two offers. The SAP offers 27-and-a-half million euro or EUR 27-and-a-half million project, Hermes Soft Lab 14.8 million. I wonder: What is the situation with regard to this important public procurement for the establishment of the tax information system, especially because it will cost some 10 million euros in the coming years? The bottom line is, both ministers: How can we ensure with a possible foreign supplier that changes in the tax system can be introduced through an integrated tax information system if we do not have either full access to the "source of the code" or at home qualified and at the Ministry of Finance, the DURS of employees of integrators?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u307	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia have drawn up and published an international public contract whose primary purpose is to obtain as soon as possible a provider, based in particular on experience, knowledge and internationally comparable business standards, and in particular in line with the needs of the tax administration and Slovenian legislation, which will provide an effective integrated tax information system, which will enable tax administrations and taxpayers to operate to the greatest extent possible, to provide a much better analysis of the risks of taxpayers, allowing taxpayers 24 hours of access to all information on their tax obligations, and ultimately an increase of 5-10% per year, representing between 0.5 and 1.1 billion euros per year. This means that this tax information system will be paid in less than one month on the basis of a higher amount of tax collected. The assessment that the new information system will result in a 5-10% increase in revenue from the collected levies is based on information on the effects of the introduction of new information systems in some other Member States of the European Union acquired by the Tax Administration. On average, revenue rises by around 3%, and DURS provides for an additional increase in income to improve risk analysis. Of course, these effects will not be visible until a few years after the final introduction of the new information system. The provider to be selected will have to meet the required conditions and will have to prove by work so far that it is able to obtain a good tax information system. Therefore, it is also one of the tendering conditions that the tax information system offered by the provider is already operating in at least three countries, as this is proof that it is qualified. It is also an important criterion for the price of this new tax information system. In view of the fact that one of the tenderers submitted an audit against that invitation to tender, the decision of the State Audit Commission is currently pending. Finally, I would like to point out that any lack of confidence in the correctness of the selection after unnecessary delays the selection of the tenderer, which in the coming months or years may have major financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, mainly due to the lower amount of taxes collected. We would not like a similar scenario to be repeated in 2001 and 2002, when the last attempt was made to replace the tax information system, since in this case the new information system on taking into account the transfer of data from the old system will not be available until 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u309	Good evening, even for me. I welcome the Member, my fellow minister, the President. If someone was watching us right now, what are we doing here in this empty hall 20 minutes past 9:00 p.m., they'd probably say, "Get a libe." But still, the questions are in place, they're relevant. Above all, I see no difference in these two answers. The Government Development Service responded to questions from a development perspective. She tried to answer the question whether and what development opportunities for one such programming system to support the tax administration were emerging. And here, of course, things can be different. The fact is that the State is a major subscriber of information systems to cooperate well with the domestic ICT industry. If my data are accurate, investments to inform the public administration amounting to around €120 million are foreseen for 2008 without this system. Only to develop and maintain information systems in more than €45 million. Practically all contracts in previous years have been awarded to domestic tenderers, who thus gain experience of possible penetration into foreign markets. Also within the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, the field of information and communication technologies is second only to the area of materials. Essentially from this written answer, what are the development opportunities here. The fact is that the advantage of home-made software is to conquer some technology, and the disadvantage is to rediscover hot water or do things that someone has already done. The advantage of software on a standard global competitive platform is that Slovenia is familiar with this top technology. The weakness of leaning on a foreign product is that the bread of domestic software providers is shivering, but they are actually forced to make a development that is globally competitive, which does not overlap [[...]] [[Shut-off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u311	First to Minister "Get a life. Get a live on Minister TV Chanel" and you will see that such a debate takes place once a week in the English Parliament. And since the debate starts there at 5:00 p.m., so that people can monitor it, it's okay if people don't watch it at 9:00 p.m. They even look and listen and ask. That's nothing new. What's new is that in the National Assembly, we have the style to have the Member do his thing and then leave. There would be an entire opposition and a whole coalition sitting here in the Vesministerial Parliament. But the content is important. And the content is essentially important in terms of what Mr Minister said. He said that the system must already operate in these countries and is essentially of these two possible choices only on SAP. SAP operates in Austria and Florida. I do not know if these are tax equivalent information systems, but the advisers to the Austrian tax system and the advisers who are supposed to work for Slovenia Durs are very similar. That is why my question is first of all to the Minister of Finance. Mr. Minister, what have you been doing for three years? Why didn't you come to this call in 2005? Why don't you go on call in 2008? And now that someone has complained because they think it is a discriminatory call, because it is only possible to give the deal to someone who already has it in three countries, it will be possible to resolve it in the next period. And to the Minister for Development: How do you now assess that we have two suppliers, that both of them were formed into consortia and are both working with domestic contractors? The only difference is that the SAP will "order" domestic operators to use this own platform, while the Hermas Soft Lab works with general relational databases that already run the budget and a whole bunch of other mechanisms. Last but not least, the tax information system has already been based on [[...]] [[Shut-off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u312	Thank you. Mr. Minister Turk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u313	Thank you very much. First of all, I owe you an answer to that part of the first question that concerns access to the source of the code, or the lack of access, or what some industry will have. Access to the source code is to the greatest extent if it is relatively insignificant in service-oriented architectures. Interfaces are documented and access is made available through these interfaces. After all, many Slovenian companies have their own information system based on Sap and a lot of bread for domestic operators, and for domestic intelligence, this system has been linked to other systems or upgraded. The view that domestic programmers know the domestic tax system and are therefore better is similar to what they say, let's just say that only Slovenian builders could drill into domestic hills because they know the terrain. I don't know if knowledge of the terrain is essential here. It's programmed according to plan, according to specifications prepared by the contracting authority, and it's also built according to plans. If you are now forcing me to respond to these two companies, I think we have a provider on the one hand who regularly produces information systems with the highest level of confidentiality for different governments, state authorities, multinational companies, a company that is listed on global markets and has transparent ownership. And on the other hand - I really don't want to, but if you challenged me, I'll just say - on the other hand, we have a so-called domestic company, which we don't even know if it's home or not. Rumor has it that there are some Cypriot funds among the owners. And on the table, I hear it's a take-over offer from a Belgrade company. So I think the basic question is whether we are in Europe, if we are in a global economy, then there can be no foreign or domestic issues, whether it is better abroad or better at home. Only if computer companies are exposed to international competition will they grow.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u314	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u315	As far as your question is concerned, what did we do for the first three years? As far as the tax administration and this area are concerned, for the first year we corrected the catastrophic legislation you adopted in the previous mandate and the terrible mistakes that had to be corrected. Then we introduced this system, but now we've done it and prepared all the analyses, so that's what we've decided on this basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeaky, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u317	I will propose a procedural debate tomorrow or Thursday when we vote on this. Mr. Minister of Finance is becoming unnecessary. The Minister of Finance is unnecessaryly upset because it is essential that the basic mechanism of this tax information system has already been presented in 2005 and early 2006. And this is a bookkeeping system built by those who have been suppliers for years. However, this integrated information site was rejected. In the meantime, she was replaced by the head of Durs, a new head of Durs, whose fundamental feature is that he started all over again. And that is why, Mr Development Minister and Mr Finance Minister, I hope that we will have a public debate on this. There is nothing wrong with this or that supplier, even if it is taken over by a Belgrade company, because it only means that this Belgrade company, if you want to, who is currently carrying out very much activities for Slovenian Durs, knows very well the tax information system and tax systems, which also stems from our tax information system, because it is based on corporate tax legislation and so on. Therefore, my thinking, which we need to explain, is to base the debate in the National Assembly on what the Government will do to make it a "ferple". There was no fairplay in the invitation to tender. To say that Sap is automatically better than I don't know who else, but it's 30 million euros, then, Mr. Minister of Development, you have to ask yourself why he came from strangers only Sap. There are 27 tax rulings in Europe [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] 26 tax information systems. [[...]] And only one of these uses Sap. Why didn't the others sign up? Because the invitation to tender is written on the skin of Sapa. We are pleased that someone else has applied, we are pleased that the audit committee will now find out whether the tendering conditions have been put or have been put on the skin of one of the companies. With regard to "source code," Mr. Minister, Sigma's problem is lack of "source code". When we reach a serious tax information system then we will see that the algorithms you need for tax accounting are written on a specific tax system, in this case Austrian, in this case German, but it must be written on a specific tax system, which is enshrined in Slovenian legislation. That's why you need a "source code" because otherwise you can't calculate these or those interest, these or those late and other liabilities. Especially when you're looking at an individual taxpayer's book card. This was done, rejected, came the new director of Dursa and went into an international tender that would end God knows how, and God knows when. I want a public debate on these two answers. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-25-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u318	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. It has been argued that the National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance and the Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia to its question, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Thursday, 27 March 2008. I thank the Minister and the only Member for staying with me. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 27 March 2008, by deciding on the proposed decisions. I also adjourn the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you.
