ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members! I'm about to proceed with the 38th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mrs Maria Pozsonec and Mr Mag. Your Clavor. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. We are ahead of another vote due to the indiscretion which was held at the last session. In this regard, I inform you that the LDS and Lipa Group have announced obstruction to this point. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. Would you like to make a procedural decision? [[...]] The only thing you can talk about is obstruction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given that since the announcement of the obstruction of two parliamentary groups prior to the vote at the 1st item of the agenda of the previous meeting, or this meeting which we are continuing today, I think that almost three weeks have passed, and that some statements by the Minister of Agriculture have taken place during this time, which have also indicated a solution to the problem that is emerging in our country and which has been pointed out by my colleague Weber with his question, we are canceling or canceling the announced obstruction in the Lipa Group three weeks ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u3	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. [[The ad in the hall.]] I'm calling off the vote. Who doesn't have a voting device? Please make sure the light's on fire first. Doesn't it work with anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote. The vote is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 38. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janš to the question of the Member State of Barbara Žgajner Tavš regarding financial sustainability. Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament. I can only see one hand. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I believe that today there will be no difficulty in voting on my procedural proposal for the response of the President of the Government to a broader debate in Parliament. Less than a month ago, I warned the Prime Minister or tried to alert him to the growing problem of poverty between pensioners and the elderly in our country. If the pension was paid 68.1% of the net salary in 2000, the pension amounted to only 61.3% of the average net salary in 2007. These were the figures with which I served, inter alia, to the Prime Minister of the Government under point 1 of the 38th meeting. In other words, real - life pensions fall compared to wages. And a hand to the heart, respected colleagues and colleagues, the situation in our country in the area of pensions and pensioners is not pink. The figures say that half of the pensioners receive a pension of less than 500 euros. 800 pensions in our country are lower than 100 euros, 18073 pensions are lower than 200 euros, 26846 are lower than 300 euros and 115203 are lower than 400 euros. Put your hand on your heart, there's more poverty among pensioners. If we do not accept certain safeguards today, only within the framework of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we are promised that pensions in 2014 will amount to only 38% of the average net salary. And I ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, what does this mean for those workers and workers who today receive only a minimum wage. That's €399. How much will these people have when they retire in 2014. These are serious warnings, which are also attached to them in the Union of Retired Persons, Trade Unions and, last but not least, to the growing poverty and lack of measures to deal with poverty on the part of the Government, the President of our country, Mr Türk, and the Ombudsman, also warns. I ask you to support my proposal on the basis of these serious warnings and to hold a broader debate, which will try to find certain appropriate measures. Both short-term and long-term. According to the government's response, the government's president is holding his eyes. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in front of reality and closing his eyes to responsibility. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u5	Thank you. What wish in your own name? I can only see one hand. I'm opening the application. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u6	Your Honors are here! Not today, the proposal for a decision, as proposed by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, should be voted in 2004, 2005 or 2006. Today is the deadline. Let the mandate of the Members of the National Assembly in the period 2004-2008 not be synonymous with the mandate to close the eyes before the reality or with the mandate to minimize the problems that are ahead of us today and here and which will be far greater if the National Assembly does not speak and, more importantly, act in the right direction. None of us should care about what happens to those people who actually have a hard time surviving or even some impossible from month to month. It is not our duty and it has never been our duty, nor do I believe that it will be that we speak exclusively of those who have high our wages or other benefits. The basic problem in our country is acceptance of reality. Ladies and gentlemen, even on my own behalf, I appeal to you not to agree to the game of the President of the Government, who sees exclusively misery and poverty in one or two individuals. This is a phenomenon that will be strengthened in the coming period. Therefore, we must vote on this kind of debate, and we, as the autonomous branch of government, the National Assembly, must influence the Government to the extent possible to take those legislative measures that will be able to resist these aspirations that exist between us today and here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The first fact, and if you listen to me carefully, is that the pension is a merited right. It's not charity, it's not a request, it's a deserved right. Second fact. This government has made such a concerted effort to save around EUR 6 million on this account because it has received a higher pension of EUR 12 at EUR 139 per year. That's another fact. Who are we kidding? The third fact, as regards poverty among pensioners and the transfer of our President of the Government, is that it is not two pillars. It's about 200,000 people in this country. If his mind is so short that he does not understand the symbolism, and if he is so sovereign that he can make fun of 200,000 people in our country, then I am sure that the National Assembly, which is supposed to be independent, must be so wise as to make a move past him and support such a debate and that we can find solutions in it. But if that doesn't happen, and I'll tell you that it's not just me and you, all of us who earn more than 400 euros, but we don't want to find a solution for those who deserve less, we can rightly fear this government and its new mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u9	Thank you. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 20, for 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 38th meeting of the National Assembly. We'll start the next session at 2 p.m.
