ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 34th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Ivan Yelen, Dr Marko Pavliha, Mag. Majda Spending from 2 p.m. on, Mr. Willi Rezman, Mitja Slavinec and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda and the representative of the Slovenian University Sports Union, Dr. Otmar Kugovnik, to the 1st item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 34th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 29 February 2008. I inform you that I have received two motions for withdrawal from the agenda of the meeting. The SD Group proposed the withdrawal of the 5th item of the agenda and the unconnected Members' Group of Members the withdrawal of the 4th item of the agenda. The motion for withdrawal is contrary to Article 64, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, and therefore the assembly will not vote on these proposals. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. We're moving on to a decision on the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 4. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving to four. Dot of the Day - This is to the defense of the proposal for a decision on the recognition of the irresistibility and sovereignty of the pieces. The draft decision was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Dr. Dimitri Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On 21 February, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to propose to the National Assembly that Kosovo recognise as an independent and sovereign state. Some of us were led by some of my beliefs. It is important to know that the negotiating troika has found that the continuation of the negotiations would not bring new solutions to the dispute over the key issue, the issue of sovereignty over Kosovo. In the government, we have also considered history and the principle of the right of nations to self-determination, which Slovenia once relied on for independence. We have taken into account the specific historical circumstances in which the constitutional role already enjoyed by Kosovo falls under the Constitution of the SFRJ of today's concept of the effectively removed year 1974. This year or so also tells how long the story of Kosovo has been going on. These historical circumstances also include systematic repression against Kosovo Albanians and, above all, the long-standing administration of the United Nations, which almost lasted nine years. And even in this or above all this is the specificity of the Kosovo case. These are circumstances when we look at them individually or together, which really make the Kosovo case unique and suggest that alternative solutions are not possible or are not realistic. We have also taken into account or have come from some fact, from some reality, that Kosovo or the Kosovo Parliament has adopted the Declaration of Independence on 17 February 2008 as a legitimate expression of the will of the vast majority of the Kosovo population. Of course, we also took into account the letter from the Kosovo authorities in which the Republic of Slovenia was invited to recognise. This is an invitation we received at the address of our government. In the Committee on Foreign Policy, I also explained in more detail how we came to this decision. Among other things, I explained how we decided in the General Affairs and External Relations Council on 18 February. There we have achieved the unity of all Member States of the European Union to recognise the reality that has emerged in Kosovo, but we allow each Member State to carry out its procedures, its relations with Kosovo in a manner that seems most appropriate to it. He could also mention: the concern for the stability of Kosovo and the region, which, by continuing its current status or even returning to its old status, is certainly threatened, then the belief that Slovenia cannot effectively and legitimately continue its engagement in the region, without recognizing Kosovo's new reality and right to self-determination - by the way, Slovenia also has its own soldiers in Kosovo - the belief that foreign policy must shape the entire national political, security and economic interests, and ultimately the determination that foreign policy decisions in the Republic of Slovenia cannot, for example, be dictated by extremists who have distributed the Slovenian Embassy in Belgrade or cannot dictate the threat of such or other retaliation. I have also told the Committee, honourable Members, that this is not a decision which is in any way directed at Serbia. The National Assembly will decide on this matter as it decides. Yesterday, there was some discussion that maybe time was too early. Time will be decided by this Parliament itself. And let me say one more thing. Slovenia does what it does, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] will work, not work on its own, but work within the framework of European policies or policies of the international community. [[...]] So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u3	Thank you. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Joseph Jerovšk, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister of Foreign Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. At its 82nd emergency meeting, held on 4 March, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered a proposal for a decision on the recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty, which was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, said in his opening remarks that the Kosovo Assembly adopted a declaration on Kosovo's independence in Pristina on 17 February 2008, in which it commits itself to respect for the commitments of the comprehensive proposal of the Special Representative of the Martia Ahtisaari United Nations, particularly in the areas of respect for ethnic minorities, the protection of cultural and religious heritage and the international control of Kosovo. At its meeting on 18 February, the European Union General Affairs and External Relations Council adopted conclusions enabling Member States of the European Union to decide on their relations with Kosovo in accordance with their national practice and international law. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the Government, in addition to other reasons, had led to the belief that Slovenia could not effectively and legitimately continue its engagement in the region without recognising Kosovo's new reality and right to self-determination. In the ensuing debate, Dr. Matej Lahovnik said that it would be reasonable to wait until Kosovo adopts other and fundamental laws to protect, in particular, the rights of the Serb minority, while also pointing out the potential consequences that recognition of the Slovenian economy may have. Mag. Milan Swickl suggested that the text of the recognition decision should further state that it was a recognition of sui generis. Members opposed this proposal in the debate. Bogdan Barovic said that Slovenia must not be too quick to recognise the independence of Kosovo, which brings instability to Europe. Members of Jožef Jerovšek, Franz Pukšič and Milenko Ziherl agreed that the long-term status of the protectorate does not bring a solution because local authorities have to take responsibility for their own development and that Kosovo's independence is the only real option that corresponds to the changed circumstances in the eastern Balkans. Marjan Trofenik supported recognition of Kosovo's sovereignty. Mr Školč expressed his concerns about setting conditions for recognition of Kosovo and stressed the need for recognition, as there is no other solution. Joseph Horvat said that the time has come for recognition of Kosovo. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for International Relations and European Affairs was presented by President Vincenc Otonič. Following a discussion with 13 votes to one with one vote, the Committee supported the text of the draft decision. The Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision be considered in the text before it and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Victory Jelinčič The nobles will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u6	Thank you so much for your words and welcome everyone together. The recognition of a new, never existing country of Kosovo is one of the major mistakes made by Slovenian politics, the Slovenian government, which the National Assembly appears to have made today. The comparisons between Kosovo and Slovenia are already insulting Slovenia's self-sustainment war, pointing to the total ignorance of those who speak of the 1974 Constitution. This constitution did not allow autonomy to autonomous regions, but allowed this route only to the republics. The fact is that Serbia itself had two autonomous republics, Vojvodina and Kosovo. Perhaps it is in the interest of the Slovenian government to recognise Vojvodina as a single country in time, because America is working in this direction. And in my opinion, it is nothing more than the pressures of the United States and, consequently, of the European Union, which also required Slovenia to recognise Kosovo as soon as possible. The fact is that we, Slovenia, have waited almost a year for the recognition of the United States of America. The Americans confessed the next day. They probably have some business together, because the heroin route runs across Kosovo. And in the works that Kosovo will briefly "take over" in saying, taken over from Macedonia, there is growing to be the highest quality opium poppy in the world. Maybe that's what's behind it all, because it's certainly not about any human rights, but it's just a business. The fact is, Ahtisaari's plan is not Ahtisaari's plan, but the plan of the United States of America, which Ahtisaari, of course, had to do with a rich payment. I don't know why Slovenia recognises this country. What have we had since Kosovo? Never anything. The endless big hole in which we threw money for the underdeveloped in the former Yugoslavia to build something small, like a library, a university, and a thermo central. From this thermocentral today, even for its own needs, it cannot provide electricity, not to mention the other two institutions. The minister said the decision was not directed against Serbia. I think it is directed directly at Serbia, because it can be directed at someone else. This is a total abuse of the Charter or the United Nations Agreement, number 1244, which speaks quite differently about this issue. I think this is very unfair to a country in Serbia and, on the other hand, extremely stupid to Slovenia. The economy of the Republic of Slovenia keeps reminding us that we will lose huge if nothing else. And we're gonna lose. However, the minister said yesterday that Serbia also has a lot from Slovenia. It does, but compared to Slovenia, Slovenia has about four times the size of Serbia, while we have investments in Kosovo that will go underwater. The fact that Kosovo needs at least a billion euros right now is well known. And it's not to do anything to do anything, it's to cover the bottom of that endlessly big hole that we're going to be throwing money into. Slovenia will now pay for the underdeveloped in addition to other countries for Kosovo, and much more than it has ever paid. I said earlier that the comparison of our self-sustaining war and independence with Kosovo is shameful and sad. He regrets all those who fought in Slovenia and decided that we would be independent. The basics are different. The recognition of Kosovo is about undermining all international acts. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party it is something similar to the one before World War II - Chamberlain and Daladier went to Munich, where Hitler, according to his own words, finely "fucked them". We were "fucked" by Americans and the European Union. And it appears that the United Nations has fallen to the same level as the League of Nations at the time. She disappeared later. And it appears that the United Nations will also have to disappear if it does not respect any international legal acts. This is probably the beginning of the end of the European Union. For when the European Union decides to grant independence to a country, perhaps because Mr Kouchner has had extensive experience with various jobs since he was 90 years old in Kosovo, perhaps that is why. Or maybe it's because some European politicians or politicians got something in their pocket. Cases of bribery of officials of these international organisations are known; there was little written about it, although it was quickly pushed under the rug. I don't know why Slovenia has to rush and jump into this pool, which we don't even know if there's water in it. It is not a decision that is merely directed at Serbia. This is a decision that means a knife in Serbia's back. A knife in the back of that country that adopted Slovenian exiles during World War II and provided them with survival. Slovenia is now returning to them in this way. And apparently, we're Slovenians, not all of us, but many of us have become servants again somewhere. In this case, the United States of America, which holds a conductor stick in its hands and, in accordance with its own interests, determines who will dare, who will be independent, who will not be independent, and in this way is actually building a strong military base in Kosovo, today called Bondsteel, which will eventually grow from the 1,700 soldiers it has today to the 17,000 and more soldiers. At this end, we will have a European Guantanamo. And according to all that, peace will be something like that. He will be supported by U.S. Army rifles, where Slovenian soldiers will also have to participate after the American dictatorship. When the first baptism comes home, you'll jump into the air and whine, instead of thinking about it right now, and you'll stop it. If we look at the number on confessions, say, the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia, for example, for half a year or almost a year has not been recognised by almost any country. The first was in two months, except for Croatia, Georgia, which would say that in the Slovenian political space does not count how many and today there are about twenty countries in the world that have not recognised Slovenia. So what? Then why do we have to rush here? In addition, Slovenia has not recognised certain countries. Then why Slovenia does not recognise the Republic of Northern Cyprus, why Slovenia does not recognise the decision of its own people in Sahara Africa and allows Morocco to carry out its activities in those areas. Interesting double criteria. Slovenia is in short working with this huge mistake. We will not support the decision on Kosovo's independence in our party. In time, it will turn out that we were right in the Slovenian National Party. Then it will be too late for Slovenia. Economic losses are going to be huge, problems are already showing up, and I don't know what else is going to happen. The Slovenian Embassy is also still closed until Monday in Belgrade. We will probably be able to close it even more, because economic ties will break apart and it will be very difficult, if ever, to restore them. Above all, I don't know why we're betraying the friendship of a nation like Serbs, so that we can get up in America and the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister. Members and Members of the National Assembly are ahead of an important decision. On a proposal from the Government, we must decide on the recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty, which the Government proposes us to do. However, I would like to say that the initial explanation of the Foreign Minister unfortunately does not correspond to the importance or contradiction of this decision and is unilateral and simplified and would require more attention and care than we have been given to deciding on such an important issue. The history of preparing this decision is long. In many ways, contradictory and burdened not only by the mutual misunderstanding of the affected, I mean primarily the Serbian people and the Albanian people in Kosovo, but also by not knowing the situation of the possible routes and by underestimating the consequences. Even for the main actors who have led to the moment of decision-making and have created the belief in the international community that there is no way back and that the decision is only one. Whether it was the right path will tell history. Today, however, there is a feeling that the search for solutions, more coherent when they are ready now that renegotiation is no longer possible when any other decision than recognition of Kosovo's independence and independence is worse than anything else. Social Democrats would like both the European Union and the European Union to be responsible to ensure that the members of the United Nations Security Council, and above all that the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo, are more prepared to create solutions that will ensure greater final success. It's hope today. He did not guarantee our conviction. We would therefore like to overcome the knowledge that the quality of the solution is more important than the time of the decision. And it's not about a few days or a few weeks. It is a time when, in the main protagonists and affected nations, the knowledge that, in the interests of the two peoples, it is only an agreement that benefits them. That it is not a good solution if one nation feels like a conqueror, and others as a nation with great powers, certainly because of their own mistakes he has made, have dedicated themselves to the position of a country that does not decide its territory, but is decided by others. Was this really necessary and there was no way to get closer to each other? Whether the solutions proposed are really the product of a good knowledge of the situation or, above all, the power of the greats, who have grown tired of discussing and deciding on this problem and said, "That is enough! It has to be decided!" I made sure of the final success, unfortunately, it's not today. There's only hope and the state we're in. In social democrats, we therefore want history to confirm our decision on Kosovo's independence and sovereignty as correctly as possible. But not as proper for understanding the great powers whose decisions can be questionable, but as proper for the position and interests of peoples and nations. But not only the Albanian nation in Kosovo, but also the Serbian and all other minorities in the new country. And ensuring democratic relations, human rights, the functioning of the rule of law, especially the rights of minorities and the equality of all religions and their religious and historical facilities, are not only the responsibility of the new country but also of the United States of America and the institutions of Europe, which must ensure that Kosovo is truly a functioning democratic, legal and social state. Members and Members of the Social Democrats are aware that we have been brought into a position when we have to decide. Whether today or the end of the month at a regular meeting is only more apparent than a really important question. It's the same as explaining why it's so and who's responsible for it more or less. The coalition, which called for an extraordinary meeting, although we do not know why, because we could also make a decision at the end of March, put the National Assembly ahead of the fact. We hope that this time he is aware of all the consequences, because that is often not the case. We therefore wish that our positive decision will not only contribute to the preservation of peace and development in Serbia and Kosovo, but will not result in the deterioration of relations and mutual friendship and cooperation that we want both with the Serbian and Albanian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Jožef Školč will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The issue of recognition of the Republic of Kosovo is becoming a matter of what we also hear in the National Assembly, in fact, more than externally, almost an internal political issue. This in itself does not seem so important to me, not so much because of the upcoming elections and the voices that someone may have hoped from such or different viewpoints, but it is necessary to say that Slovenia and Slovenia, that we are connected not only with Serbia and Yugoslavia, but also to a large extent with the resolution of Kosovo and the Kosovo issue. So it certainly does not surprise all those feelings that go back a long way. We heard today, in time II. World War II, we could have gone a long way back, we could have gone back to the '80s. Of course, all memories are relevant. I'm sure all memories aren't uniform. As we had part of a common state life, since 1990, 1989 we have continued to look for each other’s ways. And that's what I'd like to remind you of. There's a lot going on yesterday and these days, and there's going to be a lot to talk about economic interests. There's a lot of talk about whether this is the most appropriate time, whether it would suggest putting things off, or whether a moment later it would be better. I am surprised that this is also said by those politicians, and by those who claim to know this place very well, that they know it for a very long time, and that decisions that are good for this place can be consulted by European and global politicians. It's not like that anymore. I would also like to say that economic interests are certainly important and that they are not to be ignored. But they cannot be the last leader in the decision-making of the National Assembly. True, there is a lot of investment in Serbia. This only indicates that Slovenian companies and our economists see in this space the environment in which they can realize part of their plans. And that's good. If we are going back to memory, it must also be said that it is not long ago when we witnessed the boycott of Slovenian products, when also other things caused the trade of Slovenian producers and so on. But it can't lead people in decisions today either. In decommissioning, I will say, the fates of people, especially citizens and citizens, are only good to remember the possible 1980s, which also paved the way for the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. We've just relied on this famous 1974 constitution, which the same people are working for, I'll say, a worthless product of old Cardell. It would be good to remember when they value history back so that it can be a document on which part of the decisions could be justified. Above all, colleagues who sit in the center of the hall and do not find for the people who worked in this room before 1990 any particularly nice words. But I would like to remind you that the end of the 1980s was a similar situation. When the Federation redesigned itself, when Serbia took control of Vojvodina and later Kosovo, we witnessed some similar debates in the Slovenian political space. The party nomenclature was looking away when it was losing Vojvodina's independence. This should be remembered when we are talking today about all of these things, as my colleague Süikl said yesterday, "sui generis". Of course, there was some turning point only when violence in Kosovo had reached such a situation that it was no longer possible to look away. I remember the strike of the old-fashioned miners. This was the only point that forced Slovenian politics to claim the same rights for all, not only for a place where it can exercise its jurisdiction as an old principle. And from then on, I would like to remind you that there is an important badge that has talked a lot about things, not only in Slovenia and Kosovo, but about things in Yugoslavia. This badge, the attachment, Slovenian worded, had the slogan "Kosovo, my country". That meant a lot of things. It meant the right for all, the same right for those who are in Kosovo as for those who are in Belgrade and the same rights and freedoms for those who are in Slovenia. This was a rare moment when the Slovenian policy, alternative and emerging opposition, managed a joint performance. Why am I saying this? I am speaking mainly because Kosovo was an important Yugoslav problem before it became a major international problem. Certainly, Kosovo and the things that have been happening there, what has been important, may have been a greater acceleration in Slovenian independence than it seems at the moment. At that time, discussions were held on whether the state of Yugoslavia could be restructured. The entire international community was faced with a similar dilemma as we are here today: What to do? How do we turn this around? And Slovenians and Slovenes and citizens here were convinced to look for other solutions. Today, too, we are in a situation where I do not see a model of state regulation to ensure the common life of people in Kosovo and people in Serbia. I just don't see it. You're as black as my colleague Potts. Maybe this is what I want more than today's decision. This solution was sought by different politicians in different combinations. These solutions were sought by the Union and were sought by the United Nations. They didn't come any further from the famous Ahtisaari plan. Nor was our policy able to say more than "try to sit down, try to agree". These are the circumstances under which we have the initiative to recognise the Republic of Kosovo. In our group, the debate on this is mainly because people have a long memory, very complex and turbulent. My colleagues of this decision, despite the vague future, will say that the lives of this independent republic will not be opposed. I'm going to support her as much as I can. I will support it in particular because it is also necessary to ask Kosovars slowly to take responsibility for the situation in politics. This cannot be kept from the international community. This cannot be claimed by those politicians who have long since lost the opportunity to regulate anything in Serbia. This recognition means a commitment to Kosovo's policy to start a different story and a different history of the people who remained in the province. And with this thought we go into this recognition, and with this we know that it will be necessary to be even more careful when Kosovo asks to join different associations, that they are required to comply with the same criteria as was required of us at this time, as is required of Croatia, Serbia and so on. I myself have had a lot to do with the late President of Kosovo, Mr Rugova. He knew long ago that the policy led by Serbs leads to the fact that it is not possible to live together, but he has not done anything violent for the entire century to make Kosovo independent. He avoided violence until the end. What I have left in my memory of talking to him is that in some ways he is most afraid of the moment when Kosovo becomes independent, when they will have to take responsibility for everything that is going on there. I hope that his fears are too great that the things that have happened since the mid-1980s and '90s are so powerful that all these policies will learn that there is nothing that violent means to achieve and that Kosovo will be worthy of its recognition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary-General, with his co-worker. On 17 February this year, the Kosovo Assembly adopted a Declaration on the Independence of Kosovo in Pristina, which, inter alia, commits itself to respect for the commitments of the so-called comprehensive proposal, in particular in respect of respect for ethnic minorities, the protection of cultural and religious heritage and the international control of Kosovo. In the chronology of processes in Kosovo, it is necessary to highlight the Security Council resolution, the United Nations organisation, number 1244 of 1999, allowing for a political process aimed at determining Kosovo's future status. In February 2006, UN Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari's special envoy started talks in Vienna between Pristina and Belgrade. Talks didn't lead to an agreement. In February 2007, the Council of the European Union for General Affairs and External Relations expressed its full support for Ahitsaari's proposals, which constitute a comprehensive arrangement for the development of Kosovo as a multi-ethnic and democratic society based on the rule of law. Your Honor! It is good if the state of Slovenia is united in its foreign policy. The euphoric behaviour of the Republic of Slovenia in recognising the independent and sovereign state of Kosovo would not be wise. The Republic of Slovenia would be euphoric if, in a time-consuming sense, it were to interrupt and compete and, without serious consideration, to rush into recognition of the state of Kosovo. In Nova Slovenija we estimate that the moment when the Republic of Slovenia recognises the country of Kosovo is the right moment or rather that it is an optimal moment. This position is also based on an in-depth discussion with Minister Rupl, which we have probably organised as the only parliamentary group in the framework of the parliamentary group's meeting. Our positive decision to recognise the state of Kosovo is based on the right to self-determination and also on the historical facts that have taken place in Kosovo, for example, from 1974 until recently. Let me remind you that the Constitution of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia recognised autonomy in 1974. She acknowledged the Socialist Autonomous Region of Kosovo. This status was only slightly lower than that of the then socialist republics. Then let me remind you that in 1989 the Milosevic regime took away the autonomy of the inhabitants of Kosovo and became part of the Serbian or better said Milosevic's system. The international public drew attention to ethnic tragedies and the need to regulate Kosovo's future status. And our conviction is that the regulation of Kosovo's status is really necessary because of the stability of the entire region. However, our reflections have not passed the country of Serbia, with which we have successfully established strong economic and investment channels for some time. At this point Slovenian public must be told that the vast majority of Slovenian export transactions to Serbia are secured by the Slovenian Investment Society. But it is this strong economic cooperation that we see as the right, tangible our recognition of Serbia, recognition in the broadest sense, which is not only for the benefit of Slovenia, but also, or in particular, for the benefit of Serbia. And smart Serbia will surely be aware or aware of this fact. Our political decisions on Kosovo's recognition do not want to be formulated, taking into account a handful of hooligans who are breaking up the embassy in Belgrade, but also with respect to the Serbian people with whom we have never been at war, but we have been at war with the Milosevic regime. We want dialogue between the country of Kosovo and the country of Serbia to take place as soon as possible. Sometimes it seems necessary to establish a national border among the nations in order to facilitate dialogue between countries. The conclusion that the Republic of Slovenia recognises Kosovo as an independent and sovereign state will be supported in Novi Slovenija, with the desire and expectation that the country of Kosovo and the country of Serbia will understand and practice its European perspective as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! In opening, let me say that the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support with a large majority the decision by which the Republic of Slovenia recognises Kosovo as an independent and sovereign state. The state of the past ten years and consequently the current status of the former autonomous province of Kosovo following the Constitution of our then joint country of the SFRJ of 1974 is one of the last, if not just the last reality of the SFRJ, which many then its citizens, with plenty of justified criticism, have loved. In the midst of the collapse of the SFRY, which, among other reasons, has been the most generated by the unilateral approach of a certain political elite led by Slobodan Milosevic, and which has conceived and established the then state to transform into a state with the domination of one nation, it has, as the first, taken the most genuine and decisive course of the Republic of Slovenia's self-determination and, in its genuine desire, exercised its own way for several centuries of dreaming to be, to have and live in its own independent sovereign state. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we feel, on the basis of the valuable own experience of the Republic of Slovenia, that such a decision should not be challenged or even opposed to other peoples, especially when equality between the living nations, based on the rule of law, human rights and personal freedoms, is no longer established and repression, discrimination and even ethnic cleansing has been established over a particular nation. All of this was the most tragic during the period of the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia in Kosovo, and the intervention of the United Nations Security Council by resolution 1244 adopted in 1999 practically laid the groundwork for the final status of Kosovo, which took place in the Kosovo Assembly on 17 February, of course with all the assistance or role played so far by the European Union on this issue. The future of coexistence between nations and, in particular, between neighbors, can be bright, stable, and in all dimensions positive only when you acknowledge and overcome the evil that destroys them, with which they even serve themselves in life. The peoples of the restless Western Balkans must do this in particular now that this perspective is quite broad-minded for them by the European Union and the NATO Union. In this light, the issue of Slovenian recognition or Kosovo's non-recognition is not the most crucial issue, neither for the Albanian people nor for the Serbian people. The key question is their mutual victory over evil, which they can do if they can only acknowledge the reality created by this evil, which is particularly true for Serbia, a black nation as such could not have had much effect on its destiny, but unfortunately, it suffers a lot. This is the only way for Serbia in particular to make the most of Kosovo's legislation and other legislation under the auspices of the EU, the future and prospects of the Serb minority in Kosovo, not only nationality, but also economic, social, security. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, the Republic of Slovenia is genuine by establishing good relations and strong economic investment in the Republic of Serbia as well as in Kosovo with its good wishes. Likewise, with their efforts to join the EU and the NATO Union as soon as possible from the rest of the Western Balkans, we believe that the best in the package will be joined by the rest of the rest of the Western Balkans from a troubled region. On this basis, our autonomous recognition of Kosovo in the best sense should not affect good and friendly relations between Serbia and Slovenia, nor should they be crippled by our embassy in Belgrade. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also want the EU to continue to be more decisively involved in resolving a number of bilateral issues that address the former republics of the SFRJ, including the Slovenian-Croatian open issues that you want to – do not want to concern our genuine relations, which they need to overcome. In particular, we are thinking of border issues that are becoming more acute in Istria, near Mura and at sea. When we say in the introduction, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will overwhelmingly support Kosovo's recognition or we will not oppose this recognition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u15	Thank you. Dr. Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dear Members! In the Group of Members, we have indeed warned that recognition of Kosovo is in some way a conflict of two fundamental interests or fundamental principles. On the one hand, it is a principle of self-determination; on the other hand, it is a principle of territorial integrity. It is now quite clear that Slovenia is difficult to deny others the right to self-determination. Last but not least, we have taken advantage of this principle ourselves. On the other hand, there is also the principle of Earth's integrity, which is not irrelevant in international law, and Slovenia should in some way, after our assessment, approach in a different way than it did. Indeed, in the Group of Members, we have repeatedly warned that recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty should be linked to two key facts. The first is the adoption of a constitution in Kosovo and the second is the adoption of basic laws to ensure the rights of protection for the Serb minority in Kosovo. In this way, through the adoption of the Constitution and fundamental laws, it will be demonstrated how the rights of the Serb minority are protected, how human rights are protected. And it doesn't matter. Today, we have heard a lot about how economic, economic interests must not be at the forefront of a principle. I'm always fascinated when I hear those people talking about how you don't have to listen to the warnings from the economy, those people who, after you have to share the budget cake that this same economy creates, are definitely not holding back. It is true that some principled sovereign holds a very important position in international politics, but, honourable Members, it is so easy to deal with some of the economic interests Slovenia has in the Western Balkans, but it is quite irresponsible. Let me stress once again that Serbia has become a key destination for Slovenia's foreign direct investment. Slovenia already has 1.2 billion euros in foreign direct investment in Serbia, which is more than in Croatia. Serbia operates or operates 2700 Slovenian companies. In the area of Serbia, 400 Slovenian companies have active exhibitions in which they operate and which operate as business units. When we look at what trade is like, we see that it is estimated to reach a billion euros in 2007. We're talking about a billion euros. When we look at how Slovenian exports are moving to Serbia, we see that last year, by September, they increased by 40% compared to the previous year. And yesterday I was in some way concerned about the simple thesis put by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who said, ah, because they also have more, either significantly more benefits than Slovenia. The benefits of international exchange are always mutual, we are aware of that. But Slovenia exports twice as much to Serbia as it imports from there. Slovenia imports mainly raw materials from Serbia if you look at the structure of international exchange. It exports products with a higher added value. This is mainly because economic and other interests have not been discussed here today. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not even talk about this. And in some ways, it is still important to have a sovereign and principled attitude in international relations. However, we must not neglect that Slovenia will suffer the greatest economic damage if it recognises the sovereignty and independence of Kosovo. And the Blue Policy is implemented in such a way that the countries do not push themselves into the position of the Member of the European Union that suffers the most economic damage. There was a lot of talk about principled and sovereign foreign policy. This would be much more credible if, some time ago, information was not leaked to the public about how Slovenia received instructions from some authority on how to deal with the recognition of Kosovo. In this way, Slovenia has lost much of its reputation in the international public, and even today's decision can be seen in another light, as if this information about the instructions they received in the foreign ministry would not have come to the public or if it were not obvious that they were happening. We therefore believe in the Group of Members that, as a rule, the decision on the recognition of Kosovo's sovereignty and independence should be placed in the context of three principles. First and foremost, the very important principle is that Slovenia must consistently defend the implementation of certain points of the Ahtisaari Plan, including that we must be very careful how and when the Constitution and fundamental laws, which I have said, must also protect or, above all, protect the rights of the Serb minority in Kosovo. Secondly, the key context to be taken into account is that recognition of Kosovo's sovereignty, independence, should be based on the upgrading of the 2003 Thessaloniki platform. On the upgrade in terms of establishing a framework for the integration of Western Balkan countries, including Kosovo, into the institutions of the European Union. In this area, we have made a substantial lack if you want, even as the President-in-Office of the European Union, and we have missed a good opportunity to somehow upgrade the Thessaloniki platform and thus show that we actually know the situation in the region and thus demonstrate that we are committed to the integration of the Western Balkan countries as soon as possible into the European Union. In some ways, there is also a need to build and this is the third missing strategy towards the Western Balkan countries, especially Serbia. When the Foreign Minister says so easily on the Foreign Policy Committee that they benefit from international exchange in one way or another, or in particular on the other, he does not worry. Either they don't know the data or they misinterpret it. In the Group of Members, we really think that this decision is coming too soon, so that it would not be wrong to postpone this decision in some way, so that the economic damage that will arise would certainly be smaller if, for example, Slovenia took this decision during the presidency of France to the European Union. Of course, it is very superficial to say that there will be no damage or that there will be no blockage. Of course, there will be no political blockade, it is difficult for consumers to order what to do, and this is great luck, and this is true for other countries as well as Slovenia. But there is some notion of ethnocentrism or consumer attitudes towards brands, and many Slovenian companies have been very successful in entering the Serbian market in recent years. Relations, which have in some way been largely disrupted in recent years, have been reestablished and, of course, this also has some impact on the attitude of the Serbian public towards Slovenia. The situation of Slovenia is that of honourable Members and Members, whether we like it or not. Slovenia is the Presidency Member State of the European Union, and so much more so, if you want, the Serbian public and Slovenia is a former member of the common country, and that is why our decision will in some way reflect even more. In the Group of Members, it is indeed estimated that foreign policy has been underthinked in recent months also with regard to policy towards the Western Balkans. On many occasions, we made decisions too soon, ignoring the fundamental wise decision I mentioned earlier. No blue country or any blue foreign policy would put the country in the position of that Member of the European Union, which would suffer the greatest economic damage as a result of a given decision, but would take decisions by consolidating the position and reputation of the international public as the President-in-Office of the European Union. This has also been discussed too little on the Committee on Foreign Policy. There were not enough debates about this, and we are really a little disappointed in the Group of Members. As I said, it is a conflict of two fundamental principles and we estimate that we have not discussed this enough in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. So far, we have heard that all parliamentary groups or parties are aware of the seriousness and gravity of the problem and the responsibilities we bear. And I guess no one's making the right decision now. It would probably be, or it would be, over if we use words and syntagmas, which are filled with emotion or if we are trying to settle a little bit more within our client relationship. We in the DeSUS Group will not put ourselves in this kind, but we want to simply say briefly and calmly what our decision is and why it is. Proclamation of Kosovo for the Republic is no surprise. This announcement was long prepared and expected. It has been the result of many humanitarian and other tragedies in this area and is also due to the inability to agree on those most incorporated into this event. Of course, you can't just throw it forever. There comes a moment when a decision has to be made. This declaration only makes sense if this declaration of independence and sovereignty is recognised externally, i.e. that this sovereignty is provided externally, between the same countries in the same order, if we may say so and in other forms of sovereignty. So much for the rights of the people to self-determination and people to human sovereignty. We, in the DeSUS Group, have decided to support the proposal proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance after we have considered it; and we hope that it is right; a number of arguments. It would be right, so at least we estimate that in doing so, unity within Parliament would be as great as possible, so that there would be as few insurance attempts as possible, just in case: "What if it ends badly?"and that there would be mistakes if for political reasons we were too inclined either side or side. In doing so, we have heeded numerous warnings that go in different directions, especially in the direction of the question: When is the right time? Are we late now or are we ahead of schedule? Will there be more damage later or sooner? An answer that could be said to be apodicious, that there is no need to doubt it - is not. And we need to be clear about that. In doing so, however, it is necessary to make the most of the patient, without being hectic, without excessive attempts to expose any possible weaknesses, including those affecting our economy. We know that the issue of economic damage is a matter on which we must consider, and at the same time we believe that it is not possible to claim that Serbia will decide on so-called mass revenge against our decisions. We believe that it is also possible in the future to forge relationships that can be friendly and that can also be economically acceptable to us and to them. In addition, it may also be worth recalling that we, too, have become isolated, that we wanted recognition at the time, and that we have also wondered what economic damage could happen. But before the economic damage, however, there were principles, as has already been mentioned today. And beyond these principles, past rights, past freedoms which are fundamental and which are universal, even the daily benefits of the economy should probably not be put at the forefront. Otherwise, we are convinced in the DeSUS Group that it is right that this external sovereignty of the state of Kosovo is established to establish the sovereignty of the nation. The more we wonder whether it is not the most difficult task to establish this moment of internal sovereignty, i.e. the sovereignty of the authorities in Kosovo, when we see that some are already testing alternative or parallel structures to establish, and this may need to be feared more. It is therefore right that both the EU and Slovenia, which is currently leading it, do their utmost to contribute to Kosovo’s early statehood and to be able to maintain friendly and other economic, good relations with Serbia. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u20	Your Honors are here! The equality of the historic moment of independence of the Republic of Slovenia with recognition of Kosovo's new status is not correct. Any one of the speakers has been equated, and in my words I aim primarily at the editorial, i.e. the minister, it demeans the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia gained its independence in a completely different light and gained its independence as a mature country. Yesterday, in the context of the unaffiliated Group of Members of the People's Party, we addressed a letter to the President of the National Assembly to withdraw today's item so that the proposal for a decision on the recognition and independence of Kosovo's sovereignty is withdrawn from today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. In the morning, I received a correct explanation from the Secretary-General of the National Assembly that the withdrawal or withdrawal proposal was not possible, as the point is within the framework of the request of the Group of Members. However, regardless of the answer, Slovenia has, in our firm conviction, overtaken time, wisdom, statehood of the Republic of Slovenia, especially at the time of the Presidency of the European Union. International law does not allow national minorities to secession. Slovenia is in breach of international law. In the first sentence, I told you what international law defines. Today, he will be trampled by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution of the SFRJ or the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia provided for the statute of socialist republics and autonomous provinces. This is also one of the reasons why the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, our homeland and Kosovo must not be equal. The 1999 United Nations Resolution, 12/44, states: "...the internationally recognised component of Serbia" - this is also confirmed by the Resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations - "is territorial integrity". And what else is the matter with the National Assembly on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? It violates the principle of dispute resolution within the European Union. The principle of peace and an agreed settlement of disputes. Why does Slovenia do all this? Why Slovenia, by its decision, haste, haste - according to our assessment, should not do so. First of all, we should get a response, for which, in the context of the unconnected Members' Group of Members of the Republic of Lip, we have estimated that it is already within the mind and head of each of us, that is: What is the interest of the Republic of Slovenia? I am sure that 90 of us should basically answer the question of what is the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. We are Members and Members of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Clearly, this interest also consists of the so-called economic interest or otherwise expressed economic interest. One of the speakers before me spoke of an ever-increasing trade in goods with Serbia, an increase or index rising from 2006 to 2007 in the footnote to 40 index points. About a trade that exceeds one billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen, economic interest is also a national interest and this is the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Only an economically successful country, both within and outside its borders, can be a social and legal state. Another time. What is the region's interest? If we round up the region in which our country is also a Republic of Slovenia, it is our interest that countries in this region are economically well-developed. Is it our interest that countries in this region generally engage in the collection of mushrooms and the search for scrap metal? In my firm belief, the interest of the Republic of Slovenia is that it is surrounded by economically strong and sovereign countries to survive alone, because only such countries as economic or economic partners are of quality and is conducive to cooperation. In my firm belief or better expressed in the opinion of the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Republic of Slovenia, the interest of the Republic of Slovenia in creating conflict situations within the same region should not be that they originate or originate in the fields of security, cooperation at national or economic level. And we get to that fourth interest that is in play, unfortunately, I stress, which is present from last year, most likely from the period before. This is the interest of the State Department or the United States of America. Despite the independence of our country, despite the renewed singing of the sovereignty of the European Union, we are unfortunately still under the very strong influence of the United States, the State Department, that our ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Dimitrij Rupel, is re-admissioning, and I will say, directives coming across the great meadow. Thus we witnessed in December the orders of the said representatives of the State Department, which were given to Slovenian diplomacy, to be led by Mr Dimitrij Rupel. According to my assessment, this was, of course, a horrendous knowledge for citizens and citizens, not least for me, that the sovereign state of the Republic of Slovenia allows itself to have such a strong influence by the State Department or the United States of America on how to act within its international or foreign policy. Later, the government representatives somehow managed to translate the whole story of Slovenian government lability into the story of how the documents came to the public and it completely forgot to talk about the content, to write, not least, which is also evident today, to think about. But the fact is, if a foreign power or a state has an interest, it's the United States of America. In the past, I have never heard of Kosovo as a Trojan horse for the United States of America, for the area of Europe, for the region or for the old continent. And back again: What is the interest of security, development in the region within the European Union? Today we have all too many open questions to answer before our country recognises Kosovo. First of all, do we even know what this country is going to be? We have found on several occasions that there are no basic fundamental acts such as the Constitution. That we do not know neither the regulation of the protection of human rights nor the regulation of democratic institutions in this country nor, lastly, the attitude towards the region. From this city I would like to expose the danger or historical dreams of the great Albania. And finally, we still do not know the number, nor the destination, nor the possibility of the return of all those who were from the area of this region, Kosovo, exiled or expelled. We don't know what's going to happen to them, we don't even know what she's going to offer them, we don't know what she's going to offer them, but I hope I'm not running ahead of them, their new motherland, at least on paper, their homeland. From this title, at least in the context of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have also pointed out several times, unfortunately unsuccessfully, the failure of the Slovenian Government, what has happened to several thousand people from Kosovo, in particular Serbian nationalities, who have simply disappeared. But of course at the moment, the interest of the United States, which we so blindly follow, is forgotten. We will not support the unconnected members of the Parliament's proposal, content and urgency. We estimate that it is not just the story of Serbia or Kosovo. It is the story of the Republic of Slovenia, how much we hope to be principled and upright. And if we put on one hand the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, and on the other hand the interest of the United States of America, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members, then unfortunately we come to the realization, not least in the last two months, that we - Slovenians always give priority to the interests of others richer than to the interests of ourselves. And to conclude, in the context of the unaffiliated Group of Members of the Lip Act, which is before us today, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the decision that the Republic of Slovenia recognises Kosovo as a sovereign and independent state. The issue of Kosovo has been a central European, political and security issue for a long period of nine years, since the establishment in Kosovo of an administration under the auspices of the United Nations. Since then, Europe and the international community have been working intensively on the Kosovo status issue. All actors are aware that the status of the protectorate cannot continue indefinitely, as in addition to the positive, it also has negative consequences because local authorities and the population lose responsibility for their own development. In the Group of Members, we are aware that all options have been considered and evaluated, but the international community sees no better alternative. The question of Kosovo and the process of Kosovo's transition to an independent state is rooted at a time when the Serbian Academy of Sciences was based on the nationalist policy of Slobodan Milosevic, which triggered the abolition of Kosovo's autonomy in 1989. That's when Serbia stuck to the loss of Kosovo. Therefore, the axis of Serbian anger and the Serbian emotions that we are trying to understand are completely wrongly directed when demonstrators are destroying Slovenian property. As an autonomous province within Yugoslavia, Kosovo had de facto federal status under the 1974 Constitution. Serbia has not exercised jurisdiction in Kosovo for nine years, and before that there has been violence and ethnic cleansing, which has been halted by NATO intervention. The border between Kosovo and Serbia has been the most practically closed border in Europe over these years. A new reality has been established in this part of the Western Balkans and, for other reasons, Kosovo is the case of sui generis. This is highlighted by the European Union and the same opinion of Slovenian politics we also support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Slovenia recognises the right of peoples to self-determination, and we are also aware that our independence has also been born in difficult situations, the consequences of Milosevic's aggressive nationalist policy, and therefore we believe that delaying Kosovo's recognition by Slovenia would be inappropriate. Slovenia has a responsibility as President-in-Office of the European Union and would have become irresistible by delay, and would have rightly received a clear duality. Slovenia will recognise Kosovo after half of the members of the European Union and many other important countries have done so. With our recognition, the number of Member States of the European Union that have recognised Kosovo will become a major majority of the Member States. It has also been known throughout our procedure that Slovenian recognition cannot come among the first, as has been shown already in the case of the recognition of Montenegro, so much more clearly the poorer intentions of those political forces in Slovenia, which have spread fear of the Slovenian submission of the will of other countries. Kosovo's recognition by the international community is given the commitment of the new country to take full responsibility for all who live in Kosovo and to respect democratic standards for protecting and ensuring the rights of minorities, in particular the Serb minority. It is also the duty of Kosovo alone to protect the cultural and religious heritage of minorities. In our Group of Members, we are confident and will make sure that the friendship between the Slovenian and Serbian people continues to be that Slovenia will be a country that will fully support the European perspective of Serbia, Kosovo and all other countries in the region. The Slovenian economy will continue to be very active throughout the area. It'll work for the good of both sides. The European perspective is a real opportunity for all countries, especially for Serbia and Kosovo, and we hope that they will be able to achieve and exploit it in a similar way to those of other countries that have been severely underdeveloped in the past century, such as Ireland, whose membership in the European Union and consequently strong development have also helped to advance the peace process in Northern Ireland. There are movements that have recently seemed to be a mirage. The birth of a new country is an opportunity for the Serbian and Albanian people to end their historical hatred and to embark on a path of mutual respect and cooperation, which has many patterns in Europe and only this kind of behaviour brings the future to future generations. In Kosovo, the greatest responsibility for this step now lies with the majority of the Albanian people. There are many nations in Europe that have centuries of mutual war and hatred, and in modern times they have been able to overcome this and develop quickly. Let me conclude with the conviction that in the foreseeable future there will be a time when we will be seated again at the same table within the European Union. The recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty, supported by our Group of Members, will be a milestone that will begin to distance the Western Balkans from the historical burden and the visibility of the notion of the Balkans as areas of conflict, ethnic and religious attacks and economic lagging behind. Let the Balkans become a metaphor for the opportunities used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u23	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u24	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished guests! The material available to us in today's debate is the proposal for a decision on the recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty by means of an explanation provided by the Government and the report of the Committee on Foreign Policy on this issue. The following is evident from the Government's own explanation. The Council of the European Union welcomed the continuation of the presence of the international community on the basis of resolution 1244. The European Union will also cooperate in the future with the organisation of the United Nations, KFOR, OSCE and other international actors, with a view to maintaining stability in the region. It is also clear that the European Union is ready to take the lead in Kosovo in strengthening stability in the region, in line with the conclusions of the December European Council, as will the mission and the appointment of a Special Representative for Kosovo. The Council also noted that EU Member States themselves will decide their relations with Kosovo in accordance with national practice and international law. However, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has not yet received a report on the conclusions of the General and Foreign Affairs Council of 18 February. While we can reach them through the website, this is not an appropriate way of communicating the government with the National Assembly on such important issues as the recognition of the independence of one country. As a member of the government coalition party, I express my disagreement with this attitude of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs towards the National Assembly. From a substantive point of view, as early as 17 February and 18 February after Kosovo declared its independence, the New Slovenia Group called on the EU Presidency and the members to agree on the response. Unity, however, is primarily a prerequisite for clarifying some open issues. Of course, we also called for unity in Slovenia regarding the reaction to the declaration of Kosovo's independence. A key issue that arises is how to implement the conclusions of the EU Council in practice. Who and how will play a leading role in helping ensure stable and future action in Kosovo by the international community. I do not think that the conclusions of the EU Council give an answer to this question, nor does it explain it to the Government's decision. The answer to this question should be known to Members of Parliament who decide and thereby take personal responsibility. We could not get an answer to this question from the Government or from the closed meeting of the EU Affairs Committee. Although I understand the Government's interpretation that our committee is not responsible for this content, although I do not agree with it myself, in the end I will be the one who will press the button and take responsibility for a decision that I have not received all the answers to all the questions I have to ask in this regard. Although the answers may only be hypothetical, I believe that we Members are certainly entitled to these answers. I think that such a way or so does not contribute to the further development of democracy to informing the National Assembly in certain details. As I have already mentioned, I also expected that before the proposal for a decision, the Government would try to unify the positions of political actors in the Republic of Slovenia, in particular parliamentary groups. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, too bad. For example, when Nova Slovenija proposed in December that the Treaty of Lisbon should be ratified at an extraordinary meeting and that the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia should be presented to the Council of the EU in detail at an extraordinary meeting, we were not received for a month or by the Government or by the leadership of the National Assembly. But now we have a point, which, I think, is nothing more important than the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, the convening of an extraordinary meeting, indeed, by some Members, but it is clear how this impulse went. We're set before the fact. I do not think that this is the best method for such decisions, so I call on the Government to try to listen to the demands of Members and the Committee on European Union Affairs on such issues, even when it considers that this committee may not be competent, on certain substantive issues, to explain as many matters as possible to us in closed meetings. However, I believe that the question of the Western Balkans is also a priority issue for our Presidency and is practically part of the European Union's internal policy. I will certainly support the conclusion, because I believe that the question of whether to recognise Kosovo's independence or not is in fact no longer a question in principle, but of course we need to know what the consequences of this action are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u26	Here you go. Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I'm going to say something about the debates you've had or listened to here. Also because I would like to avoid the danger that any arguments will be repeated without an answer and then reduce time and so on. First of all, I would like to remind my colleague Jelinčič, who is not here, that Slovenia is a member of the European Union. And to say that the European Union has quoted us as "fucking us" is, in my opinion, unjustifiable, because the European Union is us and at this moment we are even running the Council of the European Union. By no means could it be said that Slovenia would be the subject of some kind of fraud or some kind of negative procedure by the European Union. Slovenia is co-forming the policy of the European Union. Slovenia has policies of the European Union and the external policy of the European Union is a matter of agreement in the European Union. So, speaking these words, not only is it rude, but it is also completely wrong. I have listened with interest to Mr Lachovnik's debate, but I find that we have not yet gotten rid of some old-time prejudices. Mr Lahovnik talks about the cake created by the economy, about the budget, which then, what I know, politics spends, etc. These are actually concepts from old times, as we know, the budget is filled with taxes and so are Members, and Mr Lahovnik is paying taxes, at least so I hope, doctors, artists, we all pay taxes and the budget is made up of the resources we all contribute, not just some economy that does business in Serbia. I sometimes fear that we are better taxpayers than others, who otherwise have some avrolo of successful economists, tycoons and so on. I find it most unseemly, however, that both Mr. Lahovnik and Mr. Peca are talking about some of the instructions of some greatness, directives, commands from the United States and so on. First of all, we're perfectly clear. What was written in the stolen document, which was illegally published by a Slovenian officer, of course, does not mean that it was a directive of some kind. These are fictitious interpretations, malicious interpretations, misinterpretations, stupid interpretations, stupid interpretations. It has been shown that even if it were directives and for some suggestions, Slovenia did not act on them because Slovenia did not recognise Kosovo first. Otherwise, I must say that actually speaking about the negative role of the United States, this anti-Americanism, this simple naive anti-Americanism, is really something that is completely inappropriate and which is some inadequacy for a Parliament like ours. After all, the United States is our partner. We're in Nate together, and we have a lot to do with this country. Let me remind you that the United States of America has allowed Slovenia to continue negotiations on an association with the European Union if there were no enlargement of NATO, there would be no enlargement of the European Union and so on. So talking about the United States in this way is naive, and it's a bad primary school. I agree with Mr Lahovnik that it is necessary to build up the Thessaloniki agenda, and that is how we read in the media today. The European Commission has issued or sent a Communication to the world, a Communication on how the Thessaloniki Agenda needs to be refreshed. The Thessaloniki Agenda means policy towards the Western Balkans. Slovenia has advocated this policy from the very beginning, since its presidency, to freshen up this Thessaloniki agenda. What is in the communication of the European Commission in some way also the result of the influence of the Slovenian Presidency and, of course, there is no doubt here that Slovenia is at the head of those seeking to refresh the Thessaloniki agenda, which also includes care for Kosovo. Don't forget. At the General Affairs and External Relations Council on 18 February, we agreed, unanimously we reached a position on Kosovo, on recognition of the reality in Kosovo, establishing relations with Kosovo, on Serbia, on the Western Balkans and so on. So, talking about whether Slovenia should not be involved in this process or even to oppose it is incomprehensible if I am very mild. As regards economic interests with Serbia and the economic interests of relations between economic interests and policy. If we were to act only in the interests of economic interests, we should probably stay in Yugoslavia. Mr. Lahovnik, we should probably stay in Yugoslavia. Your logic makes no sense that we've become an independent state. Why, then, did we not remain friends with Milosevic if it was only economic interests, if it was only business after all? I'm not going to teach you history here. Unfortunately, you've given us some lessons in history. About Mr. Pechet's discussion. I must be very sharp here, I must say. The fact that Slovenia is in violation of international law is completely uninhibited and flawed and deeply unjust, not to say absurdly. If so, if Slovenia is in breach of international law, it is also infringed by the United States of America, France, the United Kingdom, Australia, Norway, Germany, Denmark, Estonia, Italy, Luxembourg, Belgium, Poland, Switzerland, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, the Netherlands, Finland, Iceland, Lithuania and so on. If Slovenia violates international law, it is in breach of practically all civilised world. And let us act once as other members of the civilized world, those with whom we are in the European Union and NATO. Finally, this talk of Slovenia violating international law, when we have a whole series of documents testifying to the opposite, seems scandalous to me. In the end, just two words about what Mr Kokalj said before me. The Committee on European Affairs is an important institution. The ministry I run respects that. Whenever Mr Kokalj invited me to a meeting of his committee, I attended this meeting whenever he wanted any explanation concerning foreign policy, he also attended several meetings in our ministry. I do not think that anything can be seen by the Government here, but there is indeed a division of work between the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. As you know, policies in the European Union are divided. Our ministry is responsible for the second pillar and this second pillar belongs to the Committee on Foreign Policy and whenever the subject of the foreign policy discussion is referred first to the PSC, the Committee on Foreign Policy. However, if there is a special desire and a particular interest, I always come to your committee, not only am I the other members of the Government who are responsible for matters that might be dealt with. So all I would ask is that maybe next time we can agree on each other in a more technical and less political way about these things, I don't see any particular problem. I thank you for the warnings and we will even take them into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u28	Thank you very much. But now we can actually see why Slovenian foreign policy is so often unsuccessful. Instead of arguing the substantive answers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs offered the impressions he had constructed. In a way, the distinguished Minister here compares or is evident: if Slovenia were to take account of the economic interests, it would remain in Yugoslavia - only someone who has no idea of the economy can say that and you obviously meet these criteria. Slovenia then had a gross domestic product after a purchasing power parity of about $5,000, today the gross domestic product on its head is five times higher. And that was clear at the time, so we also voted for the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia was very successful in integration into international institutions and even more in the economic field. The Slovenian economy is extremely successful, but precisely because of this, it is sometimes necessary to listen to the views of the Slovenian economy and you, of course, are not prepared to do so, even though you live at the expense of this same economy, which provides you with a salary. And my discussion, which was partly focused or, when I also partly pointed out the economic consequences, was very substantive. I have pointed out that the matter is not simple, but that Slovenia should be more cautious and once again assertive, and I know for a fact that the Foreign Minister has put Slovenia in the position of that Member of the European Union, which will suffer the greatest economic damage among all members of the European Union today, by means of his policy, and that this could be avoided by a different policy. This policy should, as I said, be based on three principles: the first is the upgrade of the Thessaloniki platform, which has spoken very clearly about the integration of the countries of the Western Balkans and Kosovo into the European Union institutions, where Slovenia has not done enough or has not done enough, and the Minister can now provide anything but no results here; secondly, it requires a consistent implementation of the Ahtisaari plan, in particular with a focus on the adoption of the Constitution and fundamental laws protecting the rights of the Serb minority in Kosovo; and thirdly, the adoption of a long-term strategy towards the countries of the Western Balkans - Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia. We don't have this strategy today. We just don't have it. Because if we had a clear strategy, we'd have it today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u29	Mr. Lakhovnik, time for the replica has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u30	I agree, and that is why I conclude. Not only has time run out, but the minister's patience has expired because he is no longer in the hall, so I conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! With the phenomenon of recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty, we have two different principles. This is the right of the nations to self-determination, which is an internationally recognized right, because every nation, if expressed by the majority will of the people, can secede from an existing multinational state and can establish its own country. And a second time. This same international law speaks of the right of existing countries to territorial integrity and that, in some ways, they can defend this territorial integrity, as has been shown in the past, with weapons. Slovenia has taken advantage of this first principle, which is the right of nations to self-determination, secession and the establishment of an independent state, and this has proved to be very good in the past. Slovenia has made tremendous progress, while the republics, countries in the Balkans, the republics of the former Yugoslav common country were still strong in the war. The right to secession and a single country is not only the right of international law, but it is also a moral right. And the nation has the right to secession if it alleviates certain problems that have been systematically suffered in a multinational country and if it has been the victim of some constant systematic and universal discrimination. And I think that what we Slovenians have given ourselves, which other countries in Europe and around the world have made possible by our recognition, we must also allow and enable others, not least the inhabitants of Kosovo. Unfortunately, some in Slovenia who have obvious connections, I will say, with the Serbian ludist movement, they are trying to force Serbs against the Slovenians, which has proved to be the case in the past. I personally hope or believe that this will eventually calm down and that relations between Serbia, the Serbian people and the Slovenian people will be almost or in the short term very good again. Above all, the future role of the Republic of Slovenia is important. It is the international integration of both countries, both Kosovo and Serbia. The role of Slovenia will be important for both countries to achieve the fastest and most economic development and a higher standard. A higher standard will, in my firm belief, also contribute to fewer conflicts between the two nations and the two countries. In short, I will support the proposal for a decision on the recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty, which has been mediated by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President, representative of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! One comparison, but it is not the best, but if the husband and wife are still working so hard in marriage to keep the marriage alive, for a common life course, but unfortunately it is not going and it is not going in spite of the effort, then in the end they cannot do anything but separate and go their separate ways and each one with their own decision for their life course. There's something like that here. I believe that Serbia has worked for Kosovo for a long time, for a common path of co-operation, but unfortunately it simply did not work. And to this, as a Democrat, to this as Slovenia, which has similarly crossed this path of self-determination, I find it difficult to oppose, regardless of the fact that this is the right of every nation, the right to decide for itself. I think that this proposal for a decision proposed by the Government to the National Assembly today, here in this debate, I support, and I think that this right must be supported by Slovenia at a time when we also bear the EU flag, so much more responsible and that we allow Kosovo to realize these dreams. The countries that have already done so, which were among the first, Slovenia is not among them, and so is it, but will certainly follow the countries later, after today, when Slovenia will officially recognise others and hope that dreams will come true and that they will be able to give the nation with their economy what they have not been able to do to date. The recognition of Kosovo is certainly also an aid to the stability of Kosovo and the region, there is no doubt about it, and there are still negative reactions in this area. I believe that reason will prevail both in Serbia and in Kosovo and that this will be as good as possible for both of us in the future and for the Republic of Slovenia for sure. So, my vote is definitely for this decision, which is positive, which is good. What time is it? Probably never, not yesterday, not today, not tomorrow, because we have problems, certain concerns, and I have them myself, that our friends in Serbia, of course, see this differently from us, from a different perspective, with different problems, and that we have also experienced this in these months, weeks. I, too, have a small thought, which is more or less justified. I believe that Slovenia, in future cooperation with Serbia, should have no problems. However, Slovenian economists are very successful in their business, including Sevnica, creating extremely good results in the structure of their company, they are concerned. I hope that this concern will pass away as soon as possible and that Serbs will be our friends, who, like the Slovenians, have an economic interest in working with the Republic of Slovenia. That this will pass and that these relations will not depend on the Slovenian recognition of independent and independent Kosovo. We have a number of successful companies that have proven, Slovenia is also one of the major investors in this space, how it is certainly a good indicator, a positive indicator, and is also well accepted in the environment and that these relations are successful for this seven-and-a-half million people, who need such investments, which Slovenia offers in both directions. [[...]] I believe that there are no such problems in the members of the European Union, at least not as much as we will feel about possible weaknesses, blockades and similar matters, we are here among the first and certainly our path is a very priority and also somehow more successful than the other members of the European Union, the Republic of Serbia. I am also aware of our position and today's "no" path would be a poor journey and I cannot imagine that Slovenia today would say "no" to Kosovo's independence, far from this. However, I also hope that the Government may, I say, possibly the Government, the Ministry, if there were any economic and other blockades to such Slovenian companies, then they will not leave these companies alone, they will not remain alone. It would be unfair, unfair, because it would be; not by the fault of companies of companies of economic companies in Serbia, that they would then, if possible, but I do not believe that this will happen, I do not believe, because people are sober and reasonable to know what is good for each other and for others; they have left themselves on the spot. This would be a great loss, but I hope we can imagine that this will not happen and that no reaction or political assistance will be required to Serbian companies in order to continue to operate successfully, to continue to invest in this space and to complement each other: Serbia and Slovenia. This is my great wish at the same time to the Government, and especially to the competent ministries, that, in the event of any such and different responses from Serbia to the Slovenian economy, we should not leave them alone. So, my vote is in favour and I want everything good to Kosovo, all good to Serbia, and that this round of Slovenia, Serbia, Kosovo will successfully complement each other. Last but not least, we know each other, we are close and, finally, we need each other in this common regional space, for the good of the nation that lives and works there for a better life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. I was in Pristina 10 days before the declaration of independence at a European parliamentary conference on best practices in the dialogue between civil society and Parliament, together with colleagues from France and Belgium. Of course, colleagues from the Kosovo Assembly and representatives of civil society were also present. On that occasion, when everything was in the spirit of expectation of independence, I watched a TV show about the failure of lifts in Pristina because there were great problems, and heard a statement by a householder, but was not joking that the elevator was not working in their tower, but that they were waiting for independence and that it was going to lift the glass. In this statement, I have seen how much this independence means to them. And it means a lot, but, also as a magic formula, a magic cure that will solve all the problems. But I also saw how this model was sold to them in public, this independence being falsely sold, because independence alone will not drive the elevator into motion. I have seen how this independence was based on the very torn legs of a great, determined desire to secession from Serbia due to the historic repression of the Albanian majority and on the strategic interests of the West, particularly the United States of America in this area. Unlike other independences, let's say ours, where the elevators worked both before and after it, adequate preparation at home and beyond, despite international coverage in the establishment and consolidation of the attributes of sovereignty, statehood and modern constitutionality with all guarantees of human and minority rights, and there was no adequate preparation for the creation of the international legal strength of this independence. Indeed, the negotiations were long, difficult and unfortunately did not give birth to the desired agreement. It is also true that it was also questionable to continue the "status quo", but the same solution after the key "sui generis" is no less questionable, especially if the reactions to it are already exceeding the forecast; czech, it has been predicted that some of the worse blood will be in Serbia, but not so much so that we are seriously concerned. Political and other violent protests have taken place. It has seriously, conclusively and alarmingly creaked between the West and Russia, which is the first Serbian ally, and shows that such and further possible scenarios have not been best played in the capitals of Europe, nor have we 'as supposed' to know the best situation in this area. The minister calmed us down in the introduction and showed us that the worst was over. Personally, despite eternal optimism, I am becoming concerned that the security situation - I see, I see, I sense, I feel, I read - and the political situation in the region and the wider international context has worsened earlier and nothing shows for now that it is going in the opposite direction. Whether they are just insidious, mean, if we want, incomprehensible Serbia and Russia or we are also responsible for the members of the European Union, who have negotiated and poorly assessed the situation and failed to solve the "sui generis" that would satisfy both sides. Is it possible to argue, Mr Minister, if you will listen to me a little bit - that there was no other way that the pace, direction and decision-making were best chosen. After we know about the work of the United States in this space and their pressures, there has undoubtedly been pressure on the European allies, with us how to deal with this story. Please don't burden me with anti-Americanism, I now find out the facts, the pressures of the interests of the United States are and we can't avoid it. Well, we looked at and saw the new flag of Kosovo the prospect! This flag bears six yellow stars in the European blue field, representing both Europe and six minorities. It is only a matter of whether the Kosovo government, the Kosovo Parliament, the Kosovo majority, civil society have succeeded - see, in Pristina, I have not seen any good relationship between civil society, between NGOs and parliament, at all - and the European supervisors of this process will ensure to all non-Albanian communities, with Serbian value, the highest standards of protection, not only such standards, but also the role of a constitutional factor in the new constitutional regime of this country. I have my doubts, but I am sure that, when they have left it to the United States of America and the administrators of the Bondsteel base, the hope would be much lower and the risk to the internal stability of the country, to human rights and the rights of minority communities, to the future of relations with neighbours in the region, much greater for the European perspective of Kosovo alone. It is right and wise, however, that when we vote in favour of the government's proposal to recognise the new state, we are aware that the declared independence and recognition of its international legal question does not remove it and that the actual situation of Kosovo does not change significantly or that it retains all the attributes, all the characteristics of the international protectorate, which, with the arrival of the European Civilian Mission "Eulex" and the actual operational operations of KFOR at the borders of Kosovo, is even more outgoing. If we add much more to this chance that, for the sake of veto rights, if Russia, hopefully, remains only in this and does not succumb to any more hateful political flood to Kosovo and to all its supporters, the new country will not be accepted for a long time into the organization of the United Nations, the image of the unborn child, the artificial creation of a state without true sovereignty and true statehood is concluded. Today, however, we do make decisions based on judgment. I also believe that the story has come, unfortunately, to a point from which there is no return. That is why I will make a government proposal, even if it is not best written, because it is not a recognition of the state that declared independence, it is a recognition of the state that has declared independence, but also of how it depends on the West, supported and thus committed both the Government and all of us and the European Union, if we want international governance with Kosovo to its final and actual sovereignty and European maturity, the Union takes the lead and proves that today's decision has been justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Personally and on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I wonder whether it is merely an accident and a coincidence that there was a unilateral decision on the independence and establishment of a country of its own right during the Presidency of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. I have a personal right to doubt that. Who talked about it, if they did, will show history and the truth. Serbia and Kosovo should talk before recognition, not after everyone claims that this dialogue is necessary, how we are all on the one hand and on the other. I am confident that today's decision is to be - because we already know what it will be - and thank God that this is going to be in the magnetic record - the beginning of the instability of all Europe, that it is the beginning of the destabilisation of Europe. The next step, which we will decide on, will be, it will be possible, the independence of the Vojvodina. We have witnessed the establishment of a long-known pretension of the establishment of the great Albania. Colleagues and colleagues! Nice words, a lot of criticism on the government's account, and then a confession. That's great! I'm not going to tell the Serbian nation because it's not appropriate to say it, it's a great "voice," it's a saying. I'm not gonna tell him because he's not fit for this National Assembly. Until recognised Kosovo as a single state will be a member of the OSCE, the ERB, the IMF and other global and international institutions, all together is one beautiful gesture, we Slovenians are for, on paper and in reality will remain poor as they are. East Timor will remain — the first independent country in the 21st century, where fighting, bloody fighting, ugly things, hunger, and poverty are now taking place. Of course, this is far from Slovenia, we don't care, but Kosovo is there. Kosovo, colleagues and colleagues, you want to understand or not, you can state any facts, there are only one arguments, there was a national minority in Serbia. Today, Serbs will be the national minority in Kosovo, with an emphasis on living even in the ghetto. This was written by a very well-known journalist, and this is Slovenian, so you won't think Barovic is so smart. Not to play with the Slovenian and Slovenian policies; not to talk about economic and other effects, I will not talk about what has already been said that America has been successful today, which has about $35,000 per capita GDP, in one year and Kosovo in one day! I want to tell you the truth. If you're going to watch a movie where Tom Hanks plays, I think the title is Charles Wilson, you're going to see what America experienced and did with Afghanistan, that's the same story. It's the same story, it's just probably too complicated for all of those or most of those sitting in the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues! Finally, I stress, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and on my behalf, that today we are adding petrol to the fire, there are increasing security risks in the region, but now I am going to the region. The further development of destabilisation in western Macedonia is unclear. Those who deal with foreign policy or, if you're interested, you know what that means. There is no exception to Montenegro, Sandzak, and neither is Bona. Slovenia should take into account the actual situation, seriously undertake external political analysis in its decision, postpone its decision and link its decision to the actual implementation of all necessary state institutions and to the actual state of know what is going on in this political area, believe me, a very crisis area. If he's not, he'll be here soon. That's not what I want, especially on behalf of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. I absolutely object to such flooding, the stories we're listening to. There's no argument for today's "yes" decision. All the arguments that stand between the Helsinki Treaty and the 1999 Treaty in the United Nations and many other international acts, not least Ahtisaari, do not stand, so I will not support this proposal, I will oppose it!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. I will support this proposal on my own against my predecessor. Today it was heard that this independence of Kosovo was proclaimed just during the Slovenian Presidency. I would also like to draw attention to another important event that elections have taken place in Russia during this time and that Russia's impact on Kosovo's independence may also have been calculated at the event. I would like to say that I am pleased to welcome any solution that appears in an area that has long been unstable and may be the source of conflicts in the region. We know that Kosovo has been the protectorate of the United Nations for almost a decade, where international security was taken care of, both by the police and by the military. And to the extent that I am aware that the mandates of some missions are slowly expiring and that there will be a need to find some new solutions or extend their mandate. The problems in Kosovo are not new, they are from the old country and perhaps very wrong policies of the greats, who have calculated to reach the warm sea through Yugoslavia across Kosovo and Albania. And that is why Kosovo has always been some kind of ghetto or strictly closed area with a particular policy, a source of conflict, because in addition to the two majority nations, Serbs and Albanians, there are seven smaller ethnic groups. This is so much more surprising to me that today we are also hearing about what economic damage Slovenia will suffer. Slovenia is considered to be an acquaintance of this area, that is, our economists as well. And when they invested in doing business, they knew what they were getting into. This area of Serbia and Kosovo is not the only unstable area and transactions in these areas are managed by another procedure, with some other approaches; additional collateral for these transactions and more guarantees are likely to be needed for successful transactions. I would like to point out that there is no longer 1991 when it was under the cover of nationalism mainly for the robbery of Slovenian property, either trade or legal persons. Let us remember that Slovenia sport has become a Serbian sport. I believe that economic interests and economic interconnectivity are so strong that, after an estimated minor stalemate of relations, perhaps a smaller moratorium, these transactions must be lost because they are of mutual interest. Foreign companies investing in Serbia are known as stable companies, as better payers who pay above the Serbian average. Therefore, it is the interest of the Serbian people to have these companies operating successfully first. Of course, immediately after the recognition of Kosovo's independence, Slovenia will be given a new task - protection or assistance to Serbia. Serbia cannot go into negotiations with Kosovo in the current state because it would thus indirectly recognise it. The representative of their interests is, of course, Russia. Slovenia, however, can play an important role as President of the European Union in helping to protect Kosovo's Serb interests, namely, the safety of its people, the safety of other smaller ones, property security, cultural monuments and overall security. I would also like to say that it is necessary to support Serbia's European perspective, because last year, in contact with the young generation in Belgrade, I saw this desire that they were pro-Europeanally oriented, that more than 20-year jails had already been filled when the former passports that opened their way to the whole world had become useless paper. They want to go to the world, to improve, to educate and build a more modern Serbia, to raise the standard or to align themselves with European standards and European values. Following Kosovo's recognition, no one defends that there are no mutual agreements, a multilateral, a trilateral, in this area alone, and they are mainly on their way to the European Union. We have experienced something similar since last year, when they came separately, but on the same day, the delegation of Serbia and Montenegro to our Committee on European Union Affairs, where they gathered information and our experience in approaching the European Union. So the countries that have not split up so far have already found common interests and are acting together either in bringing the European Union closer and in other economic, military, cultural and possibly other projects. This is a vision for the whole of the Western Balkans, because, in contact with delegations from other countries, we have been able to see that most of them agree and see the countries of the Western Balkans, that is, this troubled area to be integrated into the integration processes of the European Union in the near future and in the light of the stabilisation, democratisation of this troubled area. I believe that it is necessary to vote in favour and I will support this decision myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u41	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister with fellow Members and Members of Parliament and all those who accompany us on the balcony are warmly greeted! I think that 20 years of neglect, repression, denial, non-recognition of democratic rights by the majority of the people of Serbia to Kosovo Albanians were enough without representatives from Serbia in state institutions. Even international interference or assistance and security in these two decades have not led to the possibility of saying, "Now you can live in a common country." I mean, even if some people think I'm conservative, I think or compare this relationship with the law. If someone has been neglecting you for years, demeaning you, despises each other, or neglecting each other, I don't think it makes sense to insist at all costs, even because others suffer. And it is also time for this part of Europe to ensure peace and order, as it has been arranged, for example, on the old continent of Europe. I will therefore today support the decision of the home labour body proposed by the Government on the recognition and independence, independence and sovereignty of Kosovo. Otherwise, I would also say for Kosovo: what they themselves do not want others to do to them, neither should they to others. I am referring mainly to the endangered Serb minority here. With regard to the omissions of those who disagree with Kosovo's independence and the threats to those who are supposed to recognise Kosovo, I believe that they should take their minds into their own hands and ask themselves why the largest SFRY or large Serbia has fallen apart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! All things are difficult before they become light, and so is our decision today in this National Assembly. Therefore, I must first express some kind of dissatisfaction or disappointment that all diplomatic negotiations and arbitration and efforts so far have not produced more satisfactory results than we have seen today. I am thinking, above all, that the views would draw closer to the point of the right to self-determination and territorial integrity and that these two interests would draw closer to the fundamental interest - how to live in the future in this part of Europe. I therefore believe that there is also a need to take into account the concerns that the recognition of Kosovo as a single country also combines certain security risks in the region as a whole. However, these concerns will depend largely on the behaviour of the newly created country and not so much on the decisions and actions of the international community. Here I am primarily referring to conduct, and to the repeated pattern that we witness every day, when we live in a world full of injustices, to contradictions, when the law of the stronger prevails, and democracy and human rights are a side thing or, in some cases, a pure farce. It is therefore most important that Slovenia also advocates the adoption of the Constitution and the necessary legislation in the future, which will ensure the protection of all ethnic groups, respect for human rights, the protection of religious monuments and other sights, and also insist on their implementation by the Kosovo authorities. In short, it is a great responsibility in the future for politicians in Pristina to justify the trust that will also be given to them by this recognition in our Slovenian Parliament. And in the end. You are no better than the extremists in Belgrade who today accuse Slovenians of conspiracy in relations between Slovenians and Serbs. And I heard that today in this hall. And when you talk about conspiracy stories, even in this case, in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Versnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present. If we are to ask ourselves why the debate on recognition is, we must recall some of the facts that have led us to have this debate here today. Co-existence in the area of Kosovo, this is said in the Republic of Serbia, has simply not been possible. Not even before 1974, when we had a kind of dictatorship, nor after 1974, when we had a new, very wide open constitution, nor after the repression of Milosevic, nor after the occupation or administration of the United Nations. In short, all attempts towards Ahtisaari’s plan were infertile and unfulfilled. Ahtisaari's plan was adopted in the EU by the majority of EU members and the only one that ensured some kind of sovereignty for Kosovo Albanians and some kind of protection for the living Serbs there. And this plan was the reason why the Kosovoers declared independence. I'm sure the Kosovo authorities have put a heavy burden on themselves. It's nice to celebrate an event, but after this event comes reality, sobriety comes. And this soberingness of the Kosovo nation is now being experienced in these times when it really has to deal with those real problems. Of course, we expect them to make those promises that were made before the announcement and at the time of the declaration that these promises will be fulfilled. But here I think we have to be careful and always defend what is promised to be done. I'm sure we'll do this job with the Slovenians. Surely, for both nations in this area and also for national communities, there are smaller ones living in this area to turn from the past to the future. And what is their future? Their future is within the association of European nations. I am sure that both of them will devote all their energies to a project to bring Europe closer and to a project where everyone has the opportunity of a better life, a chance for better opportunities and a chance of a dream that has, in fact, rained down through decades in all the former Yugoslav nations. I am confident that in these tasks, with these wishes of the Slovenians, the Slovenian authorities, the Slovenian people, I will gladly support them, guide them and certainly help them abundantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Gulic. Here you go, instead of Juban, who follows the schedule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u48	Dear Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to divide my debate into three points: history, as a source of emotion, on the new times and new policies with which we like to boast, and, of course, on what is happening in Serbia. Finally, with the recognition of Kosovo, we also recognise a new Serbia. This is not about two things that would be different, but it is about one act that has two consequences. That this emotional charge is very large in such decisions, we are also proof here, because this story has taken us not only rationally but also emotionally. In their history, Serbs have often retreated from different nations or countries, fled many times, migrated many times, and this has always been traumatic. And this historical experience is certainly one of those parameters that determines their behavior and their fears and fears today. I will not mention the Kosovo battle because it has already been over-exploited, but since the Battle of Marica, which was just before, the Serbs have retreated north and inhabited Banat, and in 1439 they have gone away from Turkey for the first time in the great exodus, even across the Sava and across the Danube. There were also major migrations at the time, see the Slovenians, the so-called King of Matjaž, Matija Korvin, who allowed them to settle there around Pest or between Pest and Belgrade. According to historical sources, this was then more than half of all life in the area, about 200,000 Serbs. About 1530 will arrive in Slovenia. So it's under the Gorjans and so on. They also fled to Russia when Russia, pardon, Austria and they were worse off under Turkey as a protectorate. All of this speaks of their trauma, their fears, their sense of persecution from various historical lands. But there's something else that's interesting. Up until the beginning of the previous century, Serbs in Kosovo and Albanians in Kosovo stood side by side against other enemies. However, this historical experience has somehow waned, it is said, their potential, the proven possibility of coexistence, cohabitation, joint struggles, after all, as well as common heroes. And of course, what do we now do with all this history when we talk about new times and new policies? The fact is, by the time Kosovo became some kind of United Nations protectorate, its independence had actually taken place. True, under Rugova or with this peaceful, democratic, liberal leader other than later, but, artificially good. And this can also tell us about this possibility that recognition of Kosovo can create new times, new conditions, new policies. If Serbs have failed there from the 1980s to the actual catastrophic expulsion of Albanians from Kosovo with this co-existence policy, this country may succeed - however it will be recognised, whether it will be recognised by everyone or not. Now, of course, there must be no talk of conditional recognition. After all, even in civil service contracts, you must not make a confession and talk about something that would then be "sui generis" specifically written. And, of course, we must not impose such conditions on Kosovo, whether we recognise it or not, and we must not place such conditions on Serbia in later developments when they join the European Union. I would not like to hear it said in this House: "Yes, let them do it if they recognise Kosovo." That would be a big mistake, a lot of fraud and blackmail. If we are already making a decision by giving all these emerging countries an opportunity, then let us give it to everyone equally and without any special considerations, without any specific obstacles. The political situation in Serbia is also not so, I will say, uniform and unanimous, and there are such rational considerations that speak of Kosovo being recognised. At least a few of the parties there have expressed themselves as well as individuals, because they know that all this effort, all this emotion, is that there is a big bar for Serbia to develop and turn into a country that people would like. It is said that we would live in peace, in prosperity, in non-conflict, clear and also in good relations with other countries. And as everywhere, there's always this kind of charge being used, and, as I said at the beginning, it's going everywhere. Speaking of our economy being threatened in Serbia, it is certainly on this surface that, at the moment this is happening, there will certainly be some kind of reaction that will be used by or by their competitors, say our traders there in Serbia, or those who are just a bit of a nudist. We've seen this before this year, and it probably can happen, but in general, I don't think there's much danger. Not because Serbs would have more than our economic cooperation, we probably all have the same and we cannot without each other. I would also very much like to see that all of us, who will vote for the recognition of the Republic of Kosovo, are not taken as those who oppose Serbia - and neither is it. It's just a process that started a long time ago, and it's going to end at some point in time. I hope that, as soon as possible and as calmly as possible, without serious traumas for one, another, the third nation, and above all counting on the Kosovo authorities to establish a regime where large minorities and small minorities and individuals will be protected in all their democratic and human rights. This also applies to Serbia, of course, and this also applies to all countries that would like to join the European Union. But, as has already been said, we do not have the right to impose any special conditions: we either admit it or we do not admit it or we do not bend here like any eel. However, it must also be said that at a time when there was, of course, another option, this did not happen. And when we realize today that it's not the right time and that we don't actually see the right time ahead, it means that we're definitely late for a while. I don't mean Slovenia now, I mean the whole area. We missed, I don't know, things that happened there a hundred years ago, like, right after the start of the reign of the Slovenes, Croats and Serbs or Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, after 1945 with Ranković's trips to Kosovo etc., etc., not to mention Milosevic at the very last. Today in Del, of course, Vuk Jeremic writes about how Serbia is now being punished for what some individual has been doing. In fact, it is difficult to rationally explain these matters, and I think it is also best that they remain as they have been written, that they are truly irrational, and that they do not affect what life brings and what the future will bring to Kosovo, Serbia, the whole Western Balkans and Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me say at the outset that I will support the decision on the recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty, and I know that Kosovo will not be independent for a long time and will not carry out all the necessary tasks, functions and attributes of sovereignty. I therefore support this decision with a certain degree of discomfort and without any particular satisfaction or even euphoria. However, as many of my colleagues, Members and Members, I do not think that this recognition would require an extraordinary meeting to be held in order to be able to do so at the first regular meeting. Finally, I quote Mr Ruple, who answered the question yesterday in the response to the press question, quote: "The story about Kosovo is 30 years old, the story of the Croatian border is 17 years old, I think we can wait another week," and the end of the quote. I agree with that, too. But as you can see, we're not waiting. Of course, the most important reason for dissatisfaction is that we do not know exactly how the institutions in Kosovo will work, especially those that will provide real and good protection not only to the minority, but also to the actual co-existence and intercultural cooperation of the Serbian and Albanian populations. We also do not know how other institutions that are bound to economic organisations, life and other things will work. Many reports coming from there are not particularly promising. But the fact is that the members of the European Union and also Slovenia, by recognizing Kosovo's sovereignty and independence, actually assumes a great and strong responsibility for further internal development in Kosovo. We must be aware of this, and we must be aware that this recognition has made us even more active in stabilising the internal political, economic and, in particular, intercultural and interethnic conditions in Kosovo; I therefore recall this responsibility. Why do I nevertheless support the recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty? Very simple and very honest: because I think that Serbia has long lost. She lost it politically, lost it economically, lost it finally to the population. She lost it by abolishing autonomy within the former Yugoslav Republic, losing it through systematic neglect, repression and humiliation of the majority Albanian population and, finally, armed intervention against own, Serb nationals of Albanian nationality in Kosovo, against their own citizens who were then, until recently even formally Serbian citizens. She lost it with the fact that the international community, NATO, the United Nations, eventually had to intervene, if you will, the European Union. And since then, since the bombing of Belgrade, symbolically, there has been no way back. The guilt that has taken place is certainly the guilt described by Vuk Jeremic. Indeed, the fact is that the Kosovo loss account will have to be paid by a democratic Serbia, a democratic Serbian party that is either in the government or in the opposition, namely, the same democratic Serbia, which itself was the victim of Milosevic's rule and Milosevic's terror, political or any other. However, in my view, this fact and this historical injustice that has occurred to democratic Serbia cannot be overcome in any way. Kosovo has left and Kosovo cannot be returned to Serbia in this way. What will happen in the future, we can only hope for more good than bad. But we're not sure. I conclude today that all those, and the state of Slovenia, who will now press the "yes" button in the vote on Kosovo's sovereignty, are actively responsible for what is going to happen in Kosovo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General. Today we have 5 hours of debate at an extraordinary session on Kosovo. And one of the predecessors said that we have been suffering for 17 years, in fact 17 open years and watching Croatia take a piece after a piece of Slovenia. Will we have to wait 30 years as Kosovo to have an extraordinary meeting for Slovenian national interests? I'd like to ask you, Mr. Rupel, to leave your job on the phone and ask you to answer what I'm going to ask you. One is the right to self-determination and the other is the right to territorial inviolability. And that's exactly what's happening to us, this right, the rights of the Slovenians, is being trampled. And we won't have an extraordinary session, believe me, we won't have it in this National Assembly because of what's happening to Slovenes and Slovenians. And we will not call the Kosovo army, even though it costs millions and millions of euros a month. This presentation here today in the National Assembly to respect, you all have a full mouth of criticism, and in the end, you'll almost all press the "yes" button. The mistake will be irreparable. Slovenia's urgent recognition of Kosovo will also have major consequences for the Slovenian economy. Today I received in writing, I am Primorc and the coastal companies interested in the Adriatic - Jadran Sežana. I will only read the first sentence: "In connection with the creation of the new state of Kosovo in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, our company has experienced two attacks on its assets and employees." You probably know that, Mr. Secretary, but you don't care. Who will be responsible for the damage? When we also help Kosovo intensively with financial resources, with military presence, with the loss of the market, which will also be visible in the budget next year - who will be responsible for the loss of all this capital, which will follow and consequently also affect the gross social product in Slovenia. So it's inflation. None of the ministers have ever been responsible materially for their work. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and no government has ever been responsible for its work. [[...]] As we look at what is happening today, we can't get past the fact that no one has protected Slovenian interests if we've already let ourselves in. Why didn't you protect Slovenian interests? Many companies addressed a request to the Government to make such important decisions before taking such a decision [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This shall be done at an extraordinary meeting. [[...]] The minister has left the hall. I'd like him to answer these questions. Please, Mr. Secretary, tell me who will be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Juban has the word. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr Grimes is present.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! Unlike some of the speakers, I must say that I believe we are literally hunting with the recognition of the last train. That this is the thing we should have done and that it is high time to do it today. What I am saying is not only speaking as a member of the SDS, but at least in the first part I will also speak as the head of the Slovenian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, an organisation with which I deeply agree, and I am happy to represent Slovenia there. In fact, when it comes to the issue of recognition of Kosovo, something must be dealt with realistically. Kosovo gained independence from Serbian paramilitary and military units as they began the final phase of ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. This caused untold suffering, a million refugees, destabilizing the entire region and NATO, in line with the values that follow, could do nothing but intervene with military force. I am sorry that this has happened, but this has been caused by those who have started this final phase of ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. And now it's some actual situation that's been there for a while now, and it's also about dealing with it and recognizing this situation. And there's something I need to know. All history teaches that non-recognition or even acquiescing to force, that is to say either verbal or even actual violence, just encourage those who are inclined to do so, so extremes, and the matter is only escalating. For this reason, I firmly believe that the international community, and within it today, Slovenia, has done only what has actually become necessary. That, in this case, it is not just an opportunity for additional violence, either in Kosovo itself or against those we now face the issue, that is, recognition of the actual situation, as has been the case in some demonstrations, is also a matter of peace in the wider international community. He reminded you that Russia's already extremely sharp words were falling, even the threat of a weapon, the threat of an attack on NATO and the European Union, and even at some point the use of nuclear weapons was mentioned, and it is necessary to know that Russia has this power. For this reason, everything needs to be done to calm the passions and make things go back to the sobering frame. This is a recognition of the actual situation, which has been in place in Kosovo for several years now, and thus the recognition that Kosovo is a sovereign, independent international unit, i.e. an independent state. Once again, I would like to point out that any delay would certainly be understood by those extremes which, while in a small group, did cause very much damage to the demonstrations in Belgrade, all those who threatened with weapons, because they would understand this as a signal to the international community that violence would be paid off. And don't let God get that signal. The international community must give a very clear signal that there is nothing to look for in the international space in modern society. This is something that we should all be aware of today, as well as in the preceding days, which I will talk about later. The recognition of Kosovo's independence as a recognition of the reality is therefore in the interest of both sides, both Kosovo and Serbia, for this reason, because it is certainly the first step that will lead both sovereign international units to the European Community. It is not realistic to expect that there will be a circle of the European Union around this area. And already this geographical position predicts what the outcome will be. The question is how fast it's gonna be. And once all of them are reunited in the European Union - let us hope that this will be as soon as possible - then all of these things, all of these irrationalities that we have witnessed in the past period will become the past. They're gonna get too big. And for that reason, as we say, we're hunting the last train. Slovenia would have ended it, and unfortunately it had experienced something during this period that had become a lightning rod. This was a totally unnecessary work caused by that part of the opposition, which first took care of through its media attorney's office, that a paper was published, a list of the wishes of the United States of America, and then, most importantly, attributed to this paper dimensions that it never had and was not able to have. At the same time, they remained silent about the fact that such a wish list exists also by Russia, by all other major forces, which in fact means some recognition of this extremely important and responsible role that Slovenia has at the moment, as President-in-Office of the European Union as a whole, in the international space in fact. And it was because the opposition attributed itself to that paper of dimensions that it did not have and could not have, that passion aroused, that a completely unnecessary wedge between the two nations, which had established good contacts, good relations, and for that reason, unfortunately, violence also occurred. And you must always know that there is a circle of individuals in every society that understands such a signal extremely, literally and then reacts as well. When the consequences came, when the Slovenian Embassy in Belgrade was devastated, those who did so began to drift back. Today, in one of the media houses, there is a tragedy when the responsible editor and editor of the space that took care of this publication sues one another who is actually guilty. But actually, it's irresponsible. I stress once again, not so much the publication itself, but the fact that it attributed dimensions to some paper that it didn't have and couldn't have. Now that the consequences are here, we're looking for an on-call culprit. Personally, I must say that no one has the right to juggle the Slovenian country in this way, because the consequences of such acts remain for a long time. It's not something that lives, survives and forgets from tomorrow. And for this reason, I will once again point out that it would be a real time for our opposition to end, on the one hand, by mucking Slovenia abroad, with Slovenia always having collateral damage or its reputation abroad, and on the other hand that it is killing the wedge between friends who have to live together, working together and all with a goal or principle that worsen when the country goes, even worse for the existing government. But I'm sorry, Slovenia is currently running the entire European Union, so this moment is sensitive. That is why every word should be so much more thoughtful. Therefore, I am personally convinced that if things were to be illuminated from the right perspective, given the point of view we have witnessed, given the fact that the current situation in Kosovo was in fact caused by the extreme Serbian policy that Milosevic has made, those demonstrations that were then before the Slovenian Embassy would probably have taken place just before the seat of Milosevic's party, only people should know this in this way. Regrettably, as it is said, some in the burning of such acts are literally enjoying themselves, but they forget what this accomplishes. Indeed, with the help of their media attorneys, they were able to use some prejudices that had been implanted in the past. Again, we were here today in this hall witnessing the resurgence of Americanism. I deeply regret this. America is our ally, an important country that has saved Europe at least twice from the monsters that this Europe itself has created. Once in the event of World War II, the second time in the case of Milosevic, when in the context of NATO, she had to intervene to end the suffering of the people. And those who still live in a period that actually ended 20 years ago could, if not otherwise, at least come from a referendum outcome in which 2/3 of those who voted could be pronounced for Slovenia's entry into NATO. This has also been said for values that are not only the values of NATO, because exactly the same values are also recorded in the source of the Treaty of Lisbon, which this Parliament ratified with a strong over 2/3 majority and thus became an integral part of our acquis. It is therefore necessary today to make a decision, a decision that is in the interest of both and of others and in particular of Slovenia, to recognise the actual situation and to cooperate well with its neighbours and live in peace. And so he recognises the independent state of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u55	Thank you very much. But to my word I invite Ambassador Majdo Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister - I think he is somewhere close to his co-worker - respected colleagues and colleagues! Hello, guests on the balcony! When the Kosovo Assembly adopted a declaration on Kosovo's independence on 17 February this year, this event has been expected for quite some time and will have an important impact on our political, economic and everyday lives. In view of the long-standing violation of the human and minority rights of the Albanian ethnic population there, after humanitarian intervention in 1999, the United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution providing a legal basis for the administration of the United Nations in Kosovo and for the military presence of NATO forces. Thus, Kosovo was a nine-year protectorate of the United Nations and it has been clear for a long time that events cannot be stopped. In order to stabilise the situation in the Balkans after Kosovo's independence, the unity of the European Union is particularly important, and we must not forget to work closely with the United Nations and NATO to bring about the process of turning into a European way of governance. The European Union gives Kosovo hope for the future in Europe. It has experience and is a good example for Slovenia, which now holds the Presidency of the European Union. It was once part of Yugoslavia, and the Slovenian case shows that rapid development is possible if the right decisions are made at the right time. But a successful country does not come into being on its own. Kosovo has a lot of work to do. The so-called controlled independence has been achieved, which means that it has committed itself to meeting the obligations set out in the Ahtisaari Plan for the Comprehensive Protection of National Minorities and, in particular, Serbian. At the same time, the European Union must not forget Serbia. The European Union has offered it a long time ago, and Serbia must take the first step so that the European future can also be a strong incentive for further development. One can understand the depression that is present in Serbia today at every step. However, it is more difficult to understand that despite the Kosovo reality, which is certainly painful for Serbia, you are closing the already fairly open door to Europe. Belgrade's true and sober responses can only be expected once the emotions calm down. Every nation has the right to peaceful demonstrations, but the force does not go anywhere, and attacks on embassies in Belgrade also show that. However, we can expect this area to be more stable over time and countries will return to their European path. Serbs have a European perspective and I am sure they know that they have their place in the European family of nations, but they must also be aware of their responsibilities. The call on Slovenian economists to be as careful as possible to recognise Kosovo as possible and not to be too fast with it is understandable and expected. Serbia has become the second largest host of our investments for Croatia in a relatively short time. We have a 12-fold exchange in Serbia than in Kosovo. However, the value of our exports to the Serbian market is 10 times higher than in Kosovo, in which we actually have only two major investments. It is also true that Slovenia was quite fond of Kosovo in the near past. The appeal in Slovenia of the living Serbs that Kosovo's independence cannot and must not be recognised is also addressed to us Members. Should we reject Kosovo's independence? There's so much human energy in each of these conquests that it's not possible to expect it to end differently. It was clear that the course of events could no longer be stopped, let alone prevented. The right of nations to self-determination is above economic interests. It is now about the process of recognition of the new state as being as normal as possible. Kosovo has already recognised more than 20 countries, Slovenia in the middle, there is no going back. I want to vote in favour of both Kosovo and Serbia, but I do not think that this perspective will be without recognition of Kosovo as an independent and sovereign state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u57	Thank you very much. And I call unto the word the apostle Gez Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman. I said earlier in the interview that it might be most rational for us to go to a decision after a presentation by the Group of Members, and the matter would be about the same as it is now, when we have been discussing for quite some time and conveying our thoughts. What I find most interesting is that we list a number of reasons why this recognition is wrong, and then we announce our support for the proposal of the parent working body, so that I too will fall in with the ashes, and I will say that I will not oppose the proposal, and then I will have two more options to vote on at this time. Kosovo has declared its independence. A number of countries have already recognised it, among them are economically and politically very strong countries, and the story is going its way. I do not think that today's action in Kosovo will make much difference. The question is only the time dimensions, whether it is important to make it now or could at one time be slightly different. And that I wouldn't be too smart in my thinking I'm going to take the thoughts of one of the Maribor professors of international law at the University of Maribor, which, in my opinion, has taken very well what he predicted will happen here today, and the consequences that could possibly arise. He says: "The recognition of Kosovo, which is likely to happen, will have long-term negative consequences for Slovenia. The Kosovo symbol is a metaphysical issue in Serbia that cannot be addressed rationally. For a long time, we will destroy the mutual trust that we have been renewing in the last decade. The Serbian public will experience recognition as a betrayal of Slovenia, a former member of the common country. I expect long-term relations to cool down in all areas. Our reputation will be further undermined by the well-known publication of Washington's instructions on the Slovenian recognition of Kosovo." We heard earlier that we knew who issued the document. I hope that in a short time we will also know the name of the actor of this story and that there will be no more hiding places who caused this destruction in the foreign ministry. If that's true, I wonder if that's true. "The government, and in particular the foreign ministry, must take direct responsibility for the situation and must not transfer it to Parliament's backs, otherwise formally adopted." That's the whole story for me. Of course, Parliament will support the matter. Many of us have announced that we will not oppose the proposal of the labour force and that the matter will happen and that the question will remain for the economy in Serbia and for relations. Or it would be wise to think about it a little later, when feelings, passions cool down, which at this point, I think they really act irrationally, and then the consequences would be slightly different. Whether it is today or in a few months, I think that something will not change much in Kosovo, but the problem is on the other hand. I still have two different options before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u59	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Milan M. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Some of the questions I want to talk about, I hope to get answers to them. Is it unconditional or not unconditional recognition, given that we want to ensure this case of recognition of Kosovo as "sui generis"? Another time. What do we admit? Kosovo, Republic of Kosovo, Republic of Kosovo? When do we do this? What are the consequences, and how do they work? Undoubtedly it is clear that the Helsinki Final Charter, such positions in the debate at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly a few days ago in Vienna, were violated. Therefore, we all stress that this is primarily due to the prevention of further consequences of the "sui generis" case. Yesterday, the minister said that, of course, we came from the autonomy of eight federal units in the 1974 Constitution. And I hope that the 8th Federal Unit will not remember such autonomy, no matter what happens north of Belgrade. In doing so, I do not object to everything that has been recorded in the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo in the declaration and is based on the will of the people after self-determination. But the question immediately arises: What do we recognize? In our decision, the Republic of Slovenia recognises Kosovo as an independent and sovereign state. And I walked through the parliamentary website of the Republic of Kosovo and we have three names; the Republic of Kosovo by Serbian, the Republic of Kosovo by Albanian and the Republic of Kosovo by English. Undoubtedly it is clear that this is the Republic of Poland. So I ask, why do we recognise Kosovo? Why do we not recognise the Republic of Kosovo or the Republic of Kosovo? I agree with everything the Government has written in its own explanation. And these are also the conditions of the so-called act of the National Assembly for me. And clearly, who will be responsible for the decisions in Slovenia? No one but the National Assembly. So it would be good for us to be aware of all of this. I tried to propose on my own yesterday on my mother's working body, so that it would still make sense to write a preamble in this text. As I warn you, this preamble was written by the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo itself. A very large number of conditions have been recorded under which they have opted for independence, including all of which will be controlled independence by the international community, as the European Union will play an important role. Yesterday, it was rejected to write in our text, either taking into account the explanation given by the Government, or by writing that the Republic of Slovenia recognises the Republic of Kosovo as "sui generis", or as a special case, as an independent sovereign state. This has been rejected if the Member does not know the matters, the Member does not know whether he confesses or does not confess. I'd say it's not as easy as it is when you're pregnant or not pregnant. This country is just being born. The question is whether this country will be fully and when it will fully achieve its independence, which will no longer be controlled by the international community. To a large extent, this also depends on the arrangements of this independent sovereign country with its independent and sovereign neighbours. And here the European Union will play an important role. Slovenia is the President of the European Union. Therefore, it does not matter when Slovenia recognises this. Yesterday someone said, Mr Jerovšek, that we recognize right in the middle. That's not true. No, it's not. Because it is necessary to separate that the European Union has decided not to act together. And consider Slovenia to be the thirteenth among the twenty-seven countries, and some countries will not even decide that it is possible in our time or, God forbid, French or any other presidency, to take this step, of course, not so simple mathematics. Slovenia is the Presidency of the European Union and should be in the midst of those who are for recognition and among those who are not for recognition. But we are now in a group of countries that are for recognition and in a clear field of these countries. It is therefore more reasonable for me, as a Member of Parliament and as someone I imagine, to know what the role of the Presidency means, that Slovenia should not step on either side or on the other side during the Presidency. But this own action, which is no longer the act of the Presidency, would simply do so on the first day of the French Presidency. What will be the consequences? I don't think anyone knows. Yesterday, a train in northern Kosovo did not drive. Or we do not know what will happen in Kosovo. Whether this will be followed by anything with the eighth federal unit of the former state, or whether anything in this regard will follow with the entities in "dayton" Bosnia and Herzegovina, nobody knows that today. Therefore, the question of how to work in the future is very important. I myself believe that the future of the whole of Southeast Europe, as some mistakenly call it, the Western Balkans, or at least I think is too simplistic, in the European Union. And, of course, there was a great deal of opportunity for the Republic of Kosovo to become, together with the Republic of Serbia and all others, in some way in some process of association relatively quickly, either first the candidate, the member and so on. That is why it is in Slovenia, not so much a concern that we will send a sufficient number of soldiers, police officers and so on to Kosovo, but to ensure, together with the rest of the European Union, a new impetus in the enlargement of the European Union to Southeast Europe. These were also warnings from parliamentarians at the recent OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna. And that's it. Is there anything else we can do? A few hours ago, I received an e-mail from one of the Members of the Dutch Parliament. The Dutch Parliament has decided to postpone the recognition of the Republic of Kosovo with a very simple argument: when the constitution and fundamental laws are adopted, then we in the Dutch Parliament will know that all the rights they fear to be violated by this assembly of Kosovo, although in its declaration, will be respected but not yet legal. And in this sense, Slovenia, as the Presidency of the European Union, would probably be more reasonable to wait and actually be placed in the middle of the European Union, among those who will recognise it, and among those who will not do so at least during our Presidency. I myself will listen to the responses of the competent minister to the concerns and decide before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Member Jerovšek applied to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u62	Thank you very much. When my colleague Cvikl refers to me, he obviously does not know what the environment is, not mathematically or politically; in no way is a middle man, he is a radical. That is why it does not understand that when Slovenia recognises today, if it does, the 14th country in the European Union will be the centre of 27 Member States 13 or 14 precisely. But he pleads that Slovenia is not to remain in the middle of countries that strongly oppose it, there is very little in the European Union and those that recognise it. Unfortunately, I note that my colleague, Cwickl, does not understand the role of the Presidency. In every way, it is desperate for Slovenia to play the role of the Presidency, the European Union's integration country. Because Slovenia has been very successful in ensuring unity at the January meeting of foreign ministers, in February, and would, of course, have earned the title or avreolo of irresponsibility if it were to now linger indefinitely. And certainly the obvious as I have already mentioned today - the duality of my policy and duality as such. When you were talking about consequences. I have a feeling that you are trying desperately to make the consequences as bad as possible, that you are simply doing propaganda in favour of not being understood by Slovenians as friends, including the Serbian people and Serbia. And this policy for the country, or when, on the basis of what I see here, that we are having a very serious debate, we are making a decision, we are making very largely, we are making very uniform decisions, these desperate attempts to turn against the real interests and against the role of Slovenia in the international community, I find that, in the field of foreign policy, we are simply not understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Comrade Squeakle, you know I can't give you a replica of the replica. I'm sorry. Excuse me? [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Thank you so much for understanding. [[...]] We continue the meeting on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Michael Prevc has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. Because I have very little time to say that I am joining all those who believe that the Kosovo people or people living in Kosovo deserve their own independent and sovereign state. I don't see any other alternative solutions. Let me say that in 1985 I served in the Yugoslav National Army in the famous town of Knin. I remembered this service especially after two things. For the first time, this barracks was so built that it was never possible for logic to enter the barracks or the soldiers. Secondly, after an abnormal repression, which is primarily due to the fact that we know how the army was made up at the time, carried out by Serbian officers over Albanian soldiers. It was clear to me at that time that these two nations were unable or unlikely to live in a common country in the future. As to whether it is the right time or not, let me also say that Serbian economists certainly know how to think logically.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Member Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. The Slovenian Parliament is today ahead of an important decision. In view of the historical fact that we lived together in the common socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, many of us are, of course, bound by some kind of affection both for Serbia and Kosovo. We have survived many important historical moments, historical facts. And if anyone, then it is the Slovenians who have always been advocates and always on the side of those who wanted their own independent state. This is what the people of Kosovo want today. Of course, on the basis of their legitimate and legal decision by elected representatives of the people, we cannot challenge them. This was also done in accordance with the applicable principles of international resolutions on 17 February this year. If anything, then it must be emphasized that the nation that wants to be in its own country wants to make its own destiny. In the common SFRJ, of course, Serbia was the one who took care of Vojvodina on the one hand, on the other hand for Kosovo. As the plague was in the recent war, we know the Slovenians more than anyone else in Europe. We experienced this murder along with them, longing for the seas to be brought to an end as soon as possible. But this sea, unfortunately, had to end with the intervention of the United States of America, and many lives were also preserved at the expense of this. If, of course, I sum up my decision, it is not easy, but I am aware that by declaring the independent and independent Republic of Kosovo, however, it will be possible for the inhabitants to write their own fate. Along with them, I would like to share these expectations that this would happen as soon as possible, but just as the photos were sent to us from a recent meeting, the way to make life better and easier for them is even longer. However, in accordance with moral principles, I will decide to make Kosovo an independent and independent Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Majdo Shirca to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u68	I'm sorry. It is not a simple question, and I am not the only one who exposes it and I am also one of those who agrees with many records. Here, too, I am looking at a record in the Diplomatic Council that says that a confession that no one challenges credibility and grace here today, or some we doubt, can mean a lighter where only waiting for the next ignition to take place. The lighter, which mainly sets perspectives and futures, not only within the area of Kosovo, but also Macedonia, Albania and so on. And Kosovo's independence certainly raises more questions than answers and may also put the Balkans at stake. It is therefore appropriate to stress once again the position that has been presented today within the Zares Group of Members, which is seeking or doing well to avoid such haste and, however, to know earlier whether the future Republic has regulated its constitutional and other international instruments and has satisfied all those standards that guarantee that human rights will not be affected in the future. I have a lot of dilemmas myself, and there aren't a lot of questions that I've been asked here. We all know that between one and the other interests there is a great interlocutory space, so I regret that there has not been a delay where we would know what security we are going to, if Kosovo had already provided basic acts, constitutions, laws and so on, to assure us that the rights of minorities and other issues that are being raised in the future will not be violated. I will also reconsider the possibility of a possible reservation until the vote, even though I myself am not only intuitively but also rationally aware that the right of the people's decision is before the provision and determination of their own destiny, which is linked to centuries of history, before that dilemma, which has also been faced many times today in the context of other eventualities that may happen. But certainly in the event of a recognition that appears to happen also by Slovenia, it is necessary to know that urgent responsibilities will be established not only for Kosovo, but also for Slovenia, I mean, responsibilities not only to Kosovo, but also to Serbia in the future. Serbia will have to prove that it is ready to join the European Union, no doubt it will have to demonstrate this in the future, because it is its only, for my understanding, perspective. Kosovo will have to prove how it will protect rights and regulate its own country in the future. There will also have to be some kind of cataract between the Serbian people, at the moment of the affected Serbian people, but these answers will have to be of quality and I think Slovenia will have to follow them closely. If independence is a fact, then it is also a fact that it will be necessary to watch Slovenia within the European Union fully, how the future and rights will be realized both in Kosovo and in Serbia. I'm not just talking about responsibility, which is linked to the Kosovo area, but also to Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u69	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite the Ambassador of Magi. Boruta Saivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. It's been heard a lot of times that we all know about foreign politics and football. I'm not one of them, it goes without saying, when I listen to those who know more about this area, about a difficult, fateful decision, we could say on one side even such a gambling, throw a dinar, and we'll see what it's gonna be like. Even when I face such a problem in my life and someone pushes me against the wall, he says, "Listen, tell me who you like better" in your nicknames, your daddy or your mommy, then I say most of the time, change yourself, say a lot of arguments, and then we'll make other choices. The history of both nations, which we are closely associated with, is quite familiar to us, is long and doubtless we Slovenians in this history have never been and will never be a decisive factor. I have already made up my mind, in Serbia and in Kosovo, they have a lot to say before my decision to both of them. When these dilemmas are resolved, then I will be able to make up my mind with ease. Today, however, I am convinced that Kosovo does not yet have all the attributes that we should have as a state and does not show full sovereignty over all of its own, I would say, territory and property. My decision today will be quorum, but when we know more about this story, then I will be able to make a different decision and give it to one or the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u71	Thank you very much. My word to the Minister. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will have to leave because I have some responsibility in Brussels, and allow the debaters who have debated so far to thank me, I hope that I will also tell them the essential answers to the questions that may still arise. First of all, I would say that the Government, in its decision on recognition, was led by the entire economic, political and security interests on the proposal for this decision. It is not only the interests of individual companies or economies, but also the relations and interests of inter-State relations, European relations, which therefore concern the whole of relations. I would like to appeal to those debaters who have warned that Kosovo's independence does not automatically solve all pressing social, economic and other issues. It is clear that independence does not in itself constitute a guarantee for the creation of a multiethnic society in Kosovo. In explanation, we have said that Slovenia wishes to pay particular attention to this particular area in its further engagement in Kosovo. We are aware of the political and security challenges that you have pointed out in the debates, and I must say that we will deal with them with all seriousness, together with our partners in the European Union and NATO. At this point, we consider it most important that UNMIK, as the United Nations says, and KFOR, says NATO, continue their work and that, at the same time, both missions of the European Union, which are in the process of being deployed, establish a presence throughout the territory of Kosovo. While it is necessary to find a suitable "modeus vivendi" that will take into account the legitimate expectations of Kosovo Serbs, no division or interference of the third party is acceptable. Several debaters mentioned the important functioning of good relations with Serbia. Let me reiterate that, of course, this is also the interest or interest of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that Serbia remains an open door to the European Union. However, we wish that Serbia, in its responses to independence, would not itself have closed the path to the European Union. At the same time, let me say that the European Union does not link the issue of Kosovo to the issue of Serbia's European integration. These are two separate processes. Many of you, I would say, have rightly highlighted the historical reasons that have led to today. This is, I would say, a fundamental part of our arguments about "sui generis", which is the nature of the Kosovo problem. I welcome the fact that, with the recognition of Kosovo by the National Assembly, Slovenia also accepts co-responsibility for the further development of Kosovo. We are also aware of this in the Government. There was a lot of talk about timing. Let me say again that the belief that waiting for a better time or some later time would not change the weight of ours or your decision. Slovenia cannot foresee any compensatory measures that would even be illegal. Our policy cannot dictate fear or intimidation by possible retaliation measures. We must decide in the context of our other comprehensive policy towards the regions, taking into account our political and security interests. And two more specific matters. I think my colleague Squikel asked why we recognise Kosovo as Kosovo. When Kosovo has a constitution, we will take the full name into account. For the time being, it is also in the documents produced by the European Union, or by the General Affairs and External Relations Council, that I should say that it is reasonable and legal to recognise Kosovo as Kosovo. Mr Friend asked who would be responsible for the recognition and the developments around him. The National Assembly, of course. And the decision of the National Assembly is not a formality, but it is a very serious decision and a serious responsibility, or of course the procedure would not have been so conceived. It is so conceived, the government cannot decide on this on its own; the government must propose to the National Assembly for a decision, to an opinion. And I hope that this assessment will be in line with what the Government has proposed. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Member Milan M. Squeakl signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u74	That's exactly what he's holding. The National Assembly will be responsible. Therefore, it is unacceptable for me to say that Slovenia is in the middle, if there are 13 among 27 countries. This is a quantitative half, but you need to look at the qualitative half. Several important countries cannot support Kosovo's independence in this case. There are some, for a number of reasons that have no point in talking about, because this is no longer an integral part of the European Union's common foreign and security policy, because the European Union has decided that each country will decide for itself. We will bear the responsibility. As the National Assembly of the State chairing the European Council, I think we are also making a mistake because we are following this simple arithmetic of Mr Jerovska.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Well, I will be responsible for supporting Kosovo's independence. In the last few years, I have been a quite good companion, in some ways also a connoisseur of this area of south-eastern Europe. I have written a report on Kosovo's future two years ago for the Committee of the Regions of the European Union, and I belong to a generation that knows this area well with both Serbia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Kosovo. I traveled there, too. In this way, I will support independent Kosovo with supervised and professionally supported independence, EULEX Mission, but I will warn and demand the respect of all democratic, economic, cultural and linguistic rights of all in Kosovo as well as the entire area of South-Eastern Europe. Kosovo is today, and I hope that one of the five world's largest crisis hotspots, for which the United Nations is responsible in South-Eastern Europe or in the Western Balkans, will bear the responsibility of the European Union in particular, especially if it really wants to become a serious actor in the establishment or maintenance of peace, progress and the enforcement of good practices. It is important to speed up the regulation of the situation in the Balkans, to establish a fast-track stabilisation situation, I would say, a common or simultaneous approximation of membership in the European Union. In addition to Kosovo, we are faced with a comparatively irregular situation, without the right decisions for once to resolve them in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is also under international administration. Slovenia is not the main actor in these decisions, acting in agreement and in great agreement with most of the members of the European Union. But we need to be realistic and honest in particular. Reality is a state and an urgent establishment of normality at everything to a large extent unjustifiablely stigmatised Balkans. The vast majority of the people of Southeast Europe are good, friendly and democratic. Thank you very much. I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u77	Thank you very much. But not literally, no. I call to the floor the Ambassador of Dr. Matey Lakhovnik. [[He's not here.]] Member Joseph Školč has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I'll make some little comments on what we've been listening to today. First of all, I share the concerns and dilemmas of everyone who spoke here, but what I find difficult to understand is that there is a problem that is actually a problem that has been discussed in Slovenia for 25 years that we are not able to make clear decisions. Because of this and because of the colleagues who say it, I am embarrassed to some extent how we can only decide on things that we deal with for a much shorter time and with much less data. The other thing I would like to say is that in the past days we have talked a lot in another context about how politics sometimes hangs, that it does not have the right answers to certain questions, that courage is needed for a new policy, courage for decisions. We remembered the actions for Darfur, and at the edge of that, we also remembered the clear position around Kosovo. Kosovo, too, is such a seductive thing, where I think that if people end up judging by their feelings, it would be right to have the courage to give these people the opportunity to start themselves and take full care of themselves. Therefore, it seems to me that there is absolutely no need for tactics or for not knowing that there are some additional conditions for recognition. The act of recognition must be clear: you're up for it or you're up against it. The country you recognize is expected to act in accordance with the principles of the international community and in accordance with everything we've talked about here. As far as the Constitution is concerned, one country has or does not have. Our country Slovenia first adopted a declaration act, only then did we accede to the constitution and after that, I will say to the hundreds of laws that we have adopted. [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Marjan Drofenik. I'm sorry, you told me this earlier, but I didn't understand, my mistake. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Time, too? And the Member of Parliament, Miran Potch, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I don't have much time left for any serious comment. Let me say that the last debate Mr Minister had was much closer to me than the one he had in the introduction. I was disturbed by the great simplification of many views expressed by the Minister and the ruling party, if you wish, or by the Government, rather than admit that we are all in great difficulty together, how to be fair to the legitimate expectations and demands of Kosovo and also to the legitimate pressures in which the Republic of Serbia lies. I think we've tried to put it right enough. I am sorry, however, that when we have also tried, in an inadequate manner, by some members of the coalition, to direct any thought expressed on the proposal for a decision to each other's internal accounts. This, I think, is not useful for such an important decision that is ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Nineteen minutes are still available for discussion in connection with the fourth item. Therefore, on the basis of the option provided by Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will open an additional debate. I ask for the application of all those Members who wish to discuss their application during these nineteen minutes. Check-in is in, please. Four Members have been notified. Each speaker has four minutes of time at his disposal. The first one has the word of Member Tomaž Šteba.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. The search for the right moment is merely an expression of powerlessness and fear, perhaps of narrow interests, as well as of indiscretion. The right moment can always be right or wrong, as it is for someone. But less than the right moment is definitely a confession after reconciliation, after the first confessions. Kosovo must begin to answer only and must prove the independent democratic functioning of the state institutions. If the operation of these institutions is established, Kosovo cannot be managed indefinitely by international officials. Controlled independence is an urgent reality. Protection of minorities, their culture, languages and heritage and economic equality in Kosovo must be absolute. Despite the fact that it is not possible to directly compare, there is no way to allow a similar tireless act and delay in the establishment of a legal and factual state of recognition of minority rights, such as in the case of a Slovenian minority, for example, Austria and Italy and elsewhere. Serbs have often had no luck with their leaders and guides of their emotions, but in the vast majority they are a temperamental nation, but they are hospitable and honest. Slovenia and its sovereignty were unfortunately violated, unprotected only because some of Serbia's larger groups believe that it is the main actor in regulating the situation or the culprit for centuries of irregularities in the Balkans, which is far from the truth. However, she became responsible for full membership with the international community and did so. Kardelj, as mentioned in one of his colleagues' discussions, may have tried to regulate international relations. He set it up, better trying to prepare a solution for the essential Yugoslav problem of brotherhood and unity by that time. As Drnovšek later did not experience any willingness to talk and seek co-existence, taking into account the reality between the then Serbian defenders in Yugoslavia and Kosovo. Then Milosevic came. In my opinion, Kardelj tried to create a more effective form to hold the oxygen under the cover of a single party dictatorship rather than to establish a truly appropriate development and co-existence. It is true, however, that those in the background who have come to the fore have also taken the initiative of resisting the real and calm and have begun the conquest of ethics in the Balkans. And this Milosevic worm still eats up. Katarza in Serbia is essential for their future. Serbia should not make it difficult for itself to travel between the members of the European Union by responding and acting. Personally, I believe that the European Union would now, once Kosovo has been recognised, do the most for the whole of South-Eastern Europe to actually take a decision on the accelerated membership of this area by meeting the basic requirements of democracy and the cooperation of institutions in these countries, in a similar way as it has made it possible to join and join the European Union in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u84	I agree with what Mr Minister said in the end and transferred responsibility to this round hall. It is therefore good that everyone is fully aware of the importance of today’s decisions. What the Dutch say they will wait for the Constitution to work for the Serb minority is only one possible way. In particular, if tomorrow, as my Dutch fellow Member says, the government of Tadic, or the government they now call, along with President Tadic's "governance", which along with President Tadic's government in Serbia, were to be voted over and have extraordinary elections in Serbia. It is therefore interesting what European observers are pointing out in particular. Could the EU do more and what will follow? No doubt the consequences will follow. These consequences will probably have two ways: either to continue similar conquests or to ensure that this is a truly unique case. Claudio Magris author of Donava, a book that speaks of, of course, the historical circumstances and approach of people living on the Danube, says: "Is it not the wish of every nationality to become a state yet somehow a thing of the past? In the European context, in 1975, we established the Helsinki Final Charter in some way the borders of these countries. By today's decision, Slovenia repeals its commitment to the Helsinki Final Charter. And to quote Timothy Gordon Ash of the so-called Association of Unpresented Nations and Nationality. And these nationalities are 69 from Abcasia to Zanzibar. And each one of them believes it's a special case. If the EU, if the international public does not ensure that Kosovo's independence and its recognition is a special case, of course, we will go slowly with the number of countries in the world over 250. And Gordon Ash says: Of course, Kosovo has become a turning point and it will be very difficult after the recognition of Kosovo, the Republic of Kosovo, Kosovo in Slovenian, of course, to be expressive against new independences. And this is a story that will be happening not only in Europe, but probably in the whole world. And in this sense, the EU Presidency, which was at some crossroads of great powers, on one side of the United States, on the other side of Russia, should take the middle way, but not, as colleague Jerovšek said, the normal arithmetical midpoint of the countries which [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and countries that are against it in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u85	Thank you very much. However, Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members. Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker. Today, after careful consideration, I will support the proposal for a decision by which the National Assembly or the Republic of Slovenia will recognise the independent and sovereign state of Kosovo. It's a responsibility. I am confident that the result of the vote will be positive, and perhaps today the people of Kosovo will celebrate with the recognition of Slovenia. However, it is not just a celebration, it is not just a holiday, because the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union today recognises the new state of Kosovo, and it is also a responsibility that the Kosovo Assembly committed itself to on 17 February. It has committed itself to respect, in particular in the field of ethnic minorities, for the protection of cultural and religious heritage and for the international control of Kosovo. This is a great responsibility that the state of Kosovo still has to implement. I am convinced, however, that Slovenia today also contributes to the stabilisation of the region, to the realization of the European perspective in this region in which we live, because the only European perspective provides stability for the Western Balkans and the entire European Union as well as for final peace. I'm sure there's still a long way to go, probably a few more years, and I'm sure we'll all come to this goal together, albeit with small steps. I do not agree with colleagues who claim that Slovenia is in a hurry to recognise. I estimate that the first wave of recognition of the country of Kosovo has passed over that Slovenia is the chair - that is, as a country that means a great deal in the European Union and the world at this time - has caught the right moment or the best moment and that we are doing what we are doing in a thorough way. Not only do we have the right to self-determination of the people of Kosovo before our eyes, but we also have Serbia and its citizens in front of us. Already in the position of our parliamentary group, I have been talking about strong economic ties that have highlighted the happiness between Slovenia and Serbia and, in particular, these economic links are the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia by the Republic of Slovenia to Serbia. That recognition, which is actually tangible, with which I claim, is of particular benefit to the inhabitants and citizens of Serbia. Of course, Slovenian economic operators also benefit from this and would not want negative information to spread in Slovenia, so that the Slovenian economy can lose much today in Serbia if Slovenia recognises the state of Kosovo. That's not true. Slovenian export transactions are secured with the Slovenian export company, which means that in some ways the state guarantees that the Slovenian economy has nothing to lose by today's decision of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u87	Thank you very much. And the final debater is Mr Andrey Bručan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u88	Nice greetings to all present! In view of the fact that earlier we have run out of time for our Group of Members, I have decided on this debate now, in this extension. The reason, however, is that I want to say some of my visions of what is happening with regard to the recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty, especially because this area of the former common country, which I know well, has been there for some time, six months, but this is already quite far away from it. But I must say that, given what has been happening in Kosovo in recent decades, I can say that the origins of the situation in Kosovo are already quite clear. All the errors made in Kosovo later in fact by Yugoslavia, as well as Serbia, have some consequences. Today, the situation in Kosovo is such and, as such, we assess that recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty is necessary and that without it, Slovenia cannot maintain any suitable face against itself or the world. Here, at least in my opinion, it is of no importance to listen to the various concerns which are mainly in the field of the economy. I am sure that this will have no impact on economic cooperation between Slovenia and Serbia in the future, perhaps in a short time, and this should then have an impact on other countries that will recognise Kosovo. I don't know why Slovenia would be any special exception here. The time in which we recognise Kosovo, Kosovo's independence and sovereignty is also appropriate. I think it is good that we did not rush into this in particular, but it would be bad if, as President-in-Office of the European Union and as a country that has gained its independence or independence at a time when the state of Yugoslavia has fallen apart to wait for this confirmation. I think that this was also the right path because we have also proved to some who in every way wanted to show our recognition of Kosovo as a result of the pressure of the United States of America, which, at the time of the event, showed that this was not true and that this was somehow adopted from the air, only for some political "purposes" and political purposes, to show once again how the United States is a special force that regulates all things, even though this is not the case and it is necessary to take into account the different criteria and developments within different political, both domestic and foreign policy activities. Once again, I would like to stress that recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Not only for Slovenia, but in general urgently, because it also obliges Kosovo as a sovereign and independent state to meet all the requirements that the European Union, as well as other countries and the whole world, expects of them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have concluded the debate with your debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda or at the latest at 22.45 minutes. And with that, I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving on to one. The agenda item - this is for the defence of the previous agreement for the application of the XXI candidature. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the We have 2 hours and 50 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Slovenian University Sport Association in prior agreement in the National Assembly. I also welcome Mr Franz Kangler, Mayor of Maribor City Municipality in our Chamber. I give the text to Dr. Otmar Kugovnik's liaison representative for further explanation of the bill. Please, for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u90	Dear Presidents, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The main question is why organize the university. The university, as you know from last year's discussion, is the second largest winter sports event for the Olympics and, as such, certainly contributes much to one global promotion of Slovenia. However, if we wanted to organize the university exclusively for this purpose, we probably would not have tried to do so. The question of the organisation of the university certainly affects the essential and fundamental development dimensions of a certain part of the country or perhaps the whole country of Slovenia. For a little while. With the organization we generate and establish synergies in the north-east of Slovenia, where we try to skip a certain part of this project, a developmental part, and create conditions for the establishment of a service activity at this part at a very quality level. This means that through the university we generate certain infrastructure projects, with better money, with higher objectives, with content that actually gives responsibility to all those involved. At the level of sports infrastructure in this part of Slovenia, which is handicapped in this regard, we establish sports halls, sports infrastructure, but at such a level that actually generates and establishes a traditional environment for sports. And we know that through this, public interest is the most generated as far as sport is concerned. With the university, we are establishing new content, as I have already mentioned, service activities, tourism, ecological thinking. These are actually topics and content that also challenge the development of content that universities and especially the University of Ljubljana are dealing with as their research and expertise. Finally, the time has come when we must look at what we have actually done about the student population in the field of sport so far. Surely the greatest handicap of this elite is that it has a lack of sports-recreational surfaces and the university could be the most generating of these things and create the possibility for the student population, which to a large extent gives and generates interest to others, to become more intense, more quality, more everyday sports. These are, in fact, the content that makes us so intent on the university. And this second attempt is actually an experiment where we are going with a significantly higher probability of this candidacy, because in a preliminary trial we have had a significant impact on the procedures through which the university, it is said, through FISU, it is said, through the International University Sports Union, is being distributed. And the distribution is now more objective, it is more democratic, and therefore we believe that with these attributes that Maribor and Pohorje have as a venue, we will be successful. So, honourable Members and Members, this candidacy and the Government's proposal for how state resources would have been realized here, is before you, and I am sure that in five years, if you accept the support of this candidacy now, we will be proud to see it today when it is decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u91	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, I also invite the Mayor of Maribor, Mr Franz Kangler, to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! It has taken me this privilege to speak to you again in this term, even though I said good-bye to you a year ago from this Chamber, and to be honest, I didn't think I'd speak again here. However, I speak on behalf of the Municipality of Maribor and on behalf of the Municipality of Zreča, which we participate in this candidacy, on behalf of the Municipality of Ruš will certainly be spoken by the mayor and the Member. I'm sure it's one big challenge ahead of us. A major challenge, which is not only the challenge of the three municipalities running together for the winter university, but a challenge for the Republic of Slovenia. This project is not a three-community project, I am convinced that it is a project where the Republic of Slovenia can acquire much with its activities, and in particular with the successful candidacy ahead of us. I am convinced that the project we are preparing together with the University Sports Association is a good project, both with the Rušami and Zrečami Municipality. I personally took part in the first run to present our project in Turin. I am sure that at that time a great injustice was committed to us and that both the sports university union and everyone else who cooperated in any way have prepared our candidacy well. The upgrade of our previous candidacy is that we have also invited the Municipality of Zreča to participate with the Rogla ski resort. It seems reasonable and fair to me from all of us, who, in any way, are cooperating and creating our candidacy to complete university sports games, as far as we get them in 2014, at Pohorje, both at Ruška and Maribor and Zreške Pohorje, that this is a round even where we can perform all these events. However, given the weather conditions, we also have an alternative to thinking seriously that all those sports that are dependent on snow conditions can be moved from Maribor or from Ruš to Rogla or vice versa and that all these functions we have are slightly distributed within all three municipalities. With Mayor Zreč, Mr Podrušnik, we are very well involved, and I must point out that we were together at the Alpine Convention, where 25 Alpine cities supported the candidacy of all three municipalities for the winter university in 2013. Of course, I also have to thank all universities in the Republic of Slovenia, which supported the three of us. I also have to thank you at this point for the first application for the contribution made by the distinguished Minister of the Beast, he was with us, he worked hard, at the time the decision of the world organisation was slightly different. This decision, which is before us in Brussels on 31 May, I am sure that we are very inclined to have a great deal of opportunity, we run for the second time, but above all, I would like to see that our presentation in Brussels on 31 May would also be joined by one of the members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the presentation itself: representatives of the Government, representatives of the National Assembly, and we will definitely participate in the presentation of both representatives of the local community and representatives of the University Sports Union of the Republic of Slovenia. In my personal opinion, it is a good project, an all-Slovenian project and not just the city of Maribor or the municipality of Zreča or the municipality of Ruše - with this project we gain everyone. This is a promotion of the Republic of Slovenia, at this point in the event area within fourteen days there would be about four thousand people in the Republic of Slovenia. This is also very important in terms of promotion, promotion of tourism and, above all, the economy. Infrastructuring in sport in the Pohorje area is more or less built, we need some additional polygons, but I am sure that with the help of the country, and especially the local communities, we can manage this by 2013. Dear Members, thank you very much for your support in advance. I'm sure your decision will be right.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The proposal, however, is for consideration by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. May I have the president of mags, please? Branka Grims to present the committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u94	Dear Professor Kugovnik and Mayor Maribor in particular have a very nice greeting at today's meeting on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport. This discussed the issue of the agreement to apply for the organisation of the winter university, Maribor 2013, at its 18th emergency meeting, namely, that the members of the committee first took note of the opinion of the proposer, namely, Professor Kugovnik said that all the partners who are legally relevant and, of course, given the actual situation, have already supported the project. He also said that he had already received a positive opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the project and pointed out that, due to the changed procedure in the decision-making process for the university in 2013, we were bound to a deadline, which was the deadline for the submission of the candidacy on 15 March 2008, which was also the reason for the extraordinary reference and also the reason why the applicants for the extraordinary meeting or the inclusion of this item on the exceptional basis of their proposal. The members of the Committee also took note of the position of the Government, which assessed that it could provide specific dedicated resources in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, namely to pay organisational rights for the organisation of the university, which, of course, would be settled if we did get the university. I would like to remind you that we have already unanimously confirmed our 2011 candidacy, but unfortunately back then, the lobbying has prevailed in favour of another candidate, while at the same time providing 30% of the planned total resources for the implementation of the university from the budget. In the debate itself, the members of the Committee have reached a full consensus on all three proposed decisions. It is interesting to mention that the latter was adopted on a proposal from a opposition colleague, by proposing to the National Assembly that it agree with the submission of a nomination for the Maribor University of Winter 2013 and with the co-financing of an event from state resources covering both the payment of organisational rights and 30% of the envisaged common necessary resources for the implementation of the project. That the organizer of the event is obliged to submit a detailed report on the use of financial resources to the National Assembly six months after the end of the event and that the National Assembly authorizes the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint representatives, the organisational committee for the preparation of the University of Maribor in winter 2013. As it is said, full consensus has been reached on these proposals and they have also been adopted with 13 votes in favour and no one against them in the end in full consensual terms. In line with the principle of 'healthy spirit in a healthy body', we propose to the National Assembly, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, that these conclusions be confirmed as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinions. Dr. Milan Beast, Minister of Education and Sports, is with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. We're gonna have to wait a little longer. Dear Mr President, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Otmar Kugovnik, President of the Slovenian University Sports Association! Dear our guest today, Mayor Franz Kangler, and also Mr. Mayor Resman of Russia, who, if we receive this candidacy, will have most of the tasks of carrying out this great, certainly all-Slovenian project. So allow me to present to you the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the transitional agreement to apply for the 26th Winter University. Somehow we repeat the exercise that has already been seen, unfortunately in Turin, as has already been said, failed. Therefore, with this greater hope, we rightly hope that this time we will succeed with the winter university in 2013. In fact, East Styria is a very good location to organize this. Slovenians are known as good sports organisers, as good sports workers, and from this point of view we certainly have a comparative advantage with other candidates. At the same time, we will try again to play the security card and the safety of all participants at this university. Unfortunately, this argument at the last run did not count much, we hope it will be in the future. Last but not least, the location, possible venue of the future university, is at the heart of central Europe, so as to allow countries to cooperate with the best teams at this university, which is also an additional argument and an invitation to all those in the riot who will decide to do so this time for Maribor. We have great hopes for this time's candidacy. We would like to further mobilise university sports equipment to become more actively involved in various sports activities. Some arrangements are also made with the University to do so. Last but not least, the university is a fine opportunity to participate in these competitions also by competitors who are not already tested in the world’s top classes in individual disciplines, but a fine opportunity to find a place for young people who are just on a sports path. In short, even from this point of view, the Government is interested in backing this initiative and adopted a positive opinion on the application on 26 February. I hope that this time it will succeed, especially since it is not only a sport event, but I believe that all the activities going in this direction will succeed, I think, in particular, investment in sport infrastructure, and also successfully connect with the economy, particularly tourism. In a way, in Styria, development philosophy is changing and we are moving from a city that was an industrial desert to a city with a modernly restructured economic supply. I am glad that the university can also contribute to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Boztjan Zagorac will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dearly-respected, distinguished Mr. Mayor! In the Group of Members, so far unrelated Members, Lipa will be pleased to support this proposal for the implementation of the Winter University. Support because it is an event that is comparable even to the Olympic Games, which means a very high potential for both the development of the region and the promotion of the country. In view of the fact that we have already discussed this in this National Assembly when it came to the 2011 candidacy and that it has been submitted for discussion, and I believe that we will all be able to praise the potentials of the Moroccan, Russian and some mayors who are trying to see the university happen at this end of Slovenia, I do not want to underestimate the fact that it is a national project. Finally, we are national Members here, and I believe we will support this story today. But the greatest effort has been made by universities and places where the university will take place. As I say, we'll be happy to support it. I am pleased that Pohorje is, after all, a very large ski resort, if not one of the largest in the Republic of Slovenia, so is Ruško Pohorje, Maribor Pohorje, Hoško Pohorje, the steak part and will represent, I will say, one of those potentials that has not yet been maximized in Slovenia. I believe, or in the Group of Members, so far unrelated Members, Lipa believes that this will help both the development of tourism, the economy and the promotion of the country, and especially the regions in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good bye to all of you. Especially Minister Milan Zver and, of course, the mayor of the Maribor municipality, our former colleague Franc Kangler. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the candidate for the organisation of the sixty-six winter university in Maribor in 2013. It is a project which, in our opinion, is of national importance and is very important for the promotion and visibility of Slovenia, in particular its northeast work, which would be successful in obtaining new opportunities in the field of sports and tourism infrastructure, the development of sport and tourism. We can certainly expect long-term benefits for the development of the wider region. We have already shown broad support for this project in our parliamentary group, as we agreed with Maribor's candidacy for the organisation of the winter university in 2011 in June 2006, with the International University Sports Union as the organizer of the Greek Erzurum. We are aware that this is not just a local project, but a project that is important for the whole of Slovenia. It also seems important to us that the candidate is a university city. It is a sport game of students, it is a university and, of course, it is a Maribor, which, with the participation of the municipalities Ruše and Zreče, fully meets the conditions for this organisation. It also seems important to us that the construction or modernisation of some of the necessary facilities is largely in line with the development plans of the city of Maribor, the University of Maribor, the municipalities of Ruše and Zreče, which also ensures that these facilities will not only be built for this great sport competition, but will also be occupied later when this event is over. It is therefore an event which at this end of Slovenia shows good opportunities for starting a new development cycle. In addition, we are convinced that the construction of some sport facilities, which are not currently available in this area, will create conditions for the development of other sports industries that have been unable to develop so far in this area. The organisation itself presents a major challenge, while at the same time providing countries, regions, cities and universities with many opportunities to promote and rebuild and build sport and university infrastructure, with many positive economic, health and educational impacts. In doing so, we must not leave aside the fact that many of the achievements of our students' athletes at winter and annual universities and world and European championships place the state of Slovenia in this area among the most successful countries. This fact is just an additional argument that it has joined the planning of this candidacy. With regard to the very reverberation of this event, it should be noted that it would take at least 500 hours of the programme to reach at least 50 countries around the world. Such events, however, are accompanied by many electronic and printed media. Only the official website of the university would some estimates include over 2 million visitors. At the same time, it is worth noting that more than 100,000 viewers, of course from abroad, are expected to see the competition at the university. At the same time, Slovenian universities with the implementation of the winter university will certainly become recognizable between students and universities around the world. The university also offers opportunities for direct promotion of student programmes and research work in the environment, which also offers quality life. In the SDS Group, we estimate that the chances of successful candidature this time are relatively high. In the final stage, and if we fail with the candidacy, there will also be no major negative financial consequences due to this candidacy. We also know that there are certain concerns about the cost and funding of construction of sites and so on, but all of this is disproportionate to the expected effects that the university would bring to Slovenia and to the north-eastern region in Slovenia. That is why we also support this candidate for Maribor and all other municipalities in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President of the Slovenian University Sports Union, Mr Mayor, Mr Minister and Fellow, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Social Democrats will secondly support the previous agreement to apply for the organisation of the University of Winter in Maribor. It's true that we tried once, but who says we have to make it through the first run? That is why it seems very appropriate to support this candidacy, especially because we have a successful candidacy for the European cultural capital. Maribor as a university city builds on a rich tradition, both cultural and sports. And if he adds to this tradition all that is offered with two great events, then Maribor will finally succeed from all those cramps he felt as a transition city. I don't see Maribor as an industrial desert. Maribor always knew both sports and cultural traditions beyond the actual possibilities. And while the idea of running for both events grew during the previous mayor's time, we are pleased to be able to support this candidacy even with the new mayor and to find a great deal of agreement on this project. In particular, with regard to the organization of the 26th University of Maribor, we stress that Maribor, as a city university municipality, has given the opportunity and the opportunity for this organization to two other municipalities, thus taking advantage of the natural heritage of Pohorje and all those natural sites that will be able to offer sufficient opportunities for excellent sports achievements. In doing so, we believe that the organisers, who will have to attract funds from private sources from public, state and local communities, will also find such placements of new sports facilities in the environment and space that they will not constitute a grave intervention and that they will not also constitute disagreement with the surrounding population or the population in which these facilities will be placed. The 26th University of Maribor in winter 2013 will show more opportunities; this is the opportunity to develop and encourage university sport, especially today when introducing Bologna study programmes, is particularly important to give university sport the space, as well as the resources needed to ensure healthy development and also the good living habits that regular sports exercise brings. The movement of top athletes in Maribor and the other two municipalities will certainly be a great promotion for excellent sport, while encouraging young people to take a more active approach to winter sport. If we consider this part of the promotion, which is focused only on sport, then it is certainly necessary to mention that part of the promotion, which means university or such an international event for the promotion of Slovenia as a country. And this is exactly why we think that this is why we are getting the whole country to say that it is right to support such a project in the highest legislative body, which I am sure will also be confirmed by the vote. And now there's something else about the economic effects of the event. With the organisers able to recover from overnight accommodation income, it certainly means lasting value, all that will remain in the form of facilities that can be marketed or used for some other purpose in the future. We are therefore convinced that this consensus opens up a firm readiness for the candidates, and since a new procedure for implementation has been introduced, we are confident that on 31 May 2008 we will be able to wait and hope to cheer him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u103	Thank you very much. My colleague Milan Petek will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, President of the University Sports Association, Mr. Kogovnik, my Mayor Franz Kangler and Mr. Minister, welcome to our meeting! If there had been more of us from that end in all the saintly groups, everyone would have just lined up behind that counter today, but some have no luck having MEPs from that end. Just like everyone else in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we join this unity, which obviously stems from the debates that have been held yesterday at a meeting of the parent committee, which shows that we are aware of what this event means for Slovenia, and especially for those who are signed under and who are involved in organizing it. And especially glad that the bad one, at least for Slovenia, did not leave a bad decision last year in that some would lose their will or actually abandon their thought of the university. The fact that this proposal is before us shows that this ambition and this will and this desire are enough, and therefore I believe that our support is also sincere to this candidacy. It is true that the sport event itself has the name Winter University Maribor 2013. But it's a lot more. In particular, it is more than those who are involved in the candidacy itself, from the University Sports Association to the universities involved, to the sports organisations, the Olympic Committee and some others in this area, and the Maribor Municipality with the co-organizers from Ruš and Zreč, and last but not least, Slovenia, which as a country fully supports this candidacy, seems important to me. We all remember last January's emotions, expressed by some who attended this story or in this candidacy in Turin. At least to me, these emotions have given me the basis and the idea that the proposals are actually followed by those who feel this event, who are aware of the importance of this event, which is heartily for this event, and they did not care that this first candidacy was unsuccessful. So this emotion is also expressed by the ambition expressed by these organisers, or those who are signed on the role, the ambition to perform a sports event that is immediately for the Olympics by some number, means this ambition to be aware of the importance and role they have, either as politicians or as athletes or as organisers in North-East Slovenia. In northeastern Slovenia led by Maribor, slowly falling behind, slowly breaking some ideas about how this end of Slovenia is underdeveloped or under-ambitious. The ambition that appears to be aware of the opportunities that such an event in such a space can prove economically justified by success, not to mention the promotion role that any such event has. And indisputably such an event, such as the winter sports university, is very, very important to promote this area and to promote Slovenia. In particular, we are aware of those who remember last year's events regarding the candidacy for the capital of Europe, namely Maribor and the participating five cities, which have received this support in Slovenia, are still waiting for the final support of the European Commission. And both events, both events, are directly and very interconnected. They happen or will happen one after the other, the first in 2012 and the second in 2013. A number of these infrastructures will provide good conditions for the implementation of both events and a variety of experiences in preparing for both events will be welcome to each other and others in how to conduct all these procedures. The university is a slightly easier task, at least I can imagine, because the whole of Pohorje as such, its skiers, its organizers, that is, all the support of these people and the politicians, are the skills of such great competitions. We all know the Golden Fox, we know some other contests in Rogla, and we are aware that this candidacy for the university is a little easier than the candidacy for the cultural capital. The university is also concerned that the content is already defined, so we do not specify it ourselves, runs within the framework of what needs to be done in the university, but in the facilities that still need to be carried out, but it is not such a provision that the city of Maribor and the other municipalities of northeastern Slovenia, both public funds and private capital, would not be able and we believe that this is also one of the circumstances that speaks in the event of the event in this environment. To illustrate that this option is much more realistic than it was last year, the fact that it is guaranteed or that a fixed amount of funds for organisational rights is fixed, i.e. the funds that were still auctioned in the previous year, and therefore the Turks were also more successful, are now set at a fixed value. We know what lies ahead, and this is a circumstance that has less effect on the candidacy itself. It is also true that it will be easier, at least in our opinion, to exclude inspections in the process in the examination of competitions and in the decision making and proposing of competitions for those actors who belong in the field from which candidates come, and we think that this will be easier and more objectively possible for Maribor or organisers. In conclusion, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we wish organisers already today, namely, the Student Sports Association Maribor with participating places and not least Slovenia successful candidacy and, of course, the best preparations for the event in five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ambassador Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Parliament. All those who accompany the meeting of the National Assembly. The Slovenian University Sports Union, following its failure to run the winter university for 2011, is again requesting the State Council for Support or Consent to run the winter university in 2013. In the opinion of New Slovenia, the University for Slovenia as host country represents a large financial contribution, a contribution to the preparation of the games themselves. The funding will be largely devoted to the construction of new sports and accommodation facilities in Maribor and neighbouring municipalities. In doing so, we are asked whether the construction of such buildings to the extent envisaged by the plan makes sense and whether it has long-term positive effects. For we cannot afford to spend the taxpayer's money on building buildings that will be alone or even starting to fail after the end of the university. Nor would we want to be burdensome to the congregations. It would be wise to consider using the existing sport infrastructure in Slovenia, thus usefully using and promoting. In Novi Slovenija we insist that games are an excellent media and promotional event, which represents the opportunity to attract new people to Slovenia and that the world understands Slovenia as a developed tourist, sports country. And the project needs to be done with a sober head. This means that investments must be determined professionally and precisely, taking into account the long-term effects or consequences of investments. It is only in this way that we will be able to justify to our citizens the fact that the country in the budget can easily find money to play games, and it is so difficult to find money for example for kindergartens, the subsidisation of student diets, social allowances or pensions. In Novi Slovenija we will support the candidacy, and we appeal to all the organizers that in the event of the Maribor victory, resources will be carefully distributed in the selection and that they will also be justified with a good quality of implementation. For we do not want the games to become just an excuse to entertain students, as is often the case. The games have their own purpose, which is also accurately described in the candidacy. Finally, in Novi Slovenija we would like to really promote Slovenia, and the use of the Slovenian language is the main thing. The organizers talk a lot about the promotion of Slovenia and in Nova Slovenije we agree that this is also the game. Therefore, we cannot understand why only the English logo appears on the first page of the application, at least what it should be to believe the English logo to be written first in the Slovenian language, we are ready. In Novi Slovenija we will support the candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u108	Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Slovenian University Sports Union, Dr. Otmar Kugovnik and the distinguished Maribor Mayor, Members of Parliament! Let me begin by stressing that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group support the re-election of Maribor for the organisation of the winter university for 2013. We believe that such an event is one of the better opportunities to promote the city of Maribor and its wider surroundings, as well as the whole country, both in terms of tourism, economic and recognition of Slovenia as a country with a developed and quality university environment. Winter University is an excellent opportunity to modernise and build new sports facilities and to encourage people to participate in sports, of which everyone, especially in recent years, speaks a lot, especially in relation to healthy lifestyles. The sports results of our participants have also been extremely good so far, since our athletes-students have won 64 awards. In addition, the city of Maribor with its surroundings and culture is an excellent choice for the performance of the winter university. We believe that it is good to encourage the desire for achievements, including sports, and in particular to give young people the opportunity to show their participation and good results in such competitions. A well-managed organisation would certainly give our country greater visibility in the world. Of course, the city of Maribor with its surroundings would be the most recognizable. We wish that the participants of the winter university would be able to learn the beauty of the whole country, the tourist offer of our places and the competitiveness of our studies. The aim of such an event should be to promote and identify Slovenia as successfully as possible in addition to the organisation of sport. The university is a national project that will also have a positive impact on cooperation between Slovenian universities and local communities. We thus encourage local communities, organisations, educational institutions to build, together with state resources, adequate sports infrastructure and thus make a major developmental step in tourism in North-East Slovenia. As I have already mentioned, in the project we see a good opportunity for a good source of promotion of north-eastern Slovenia and the whole country of Slovenia, so we will be happy to support Maribor's candidacy with its surroundings for the organisation of the winter university 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u110	Nice greeting, including to the mayor of Maribor, who was here today, thanks to yesterday's committee, where your colleague Mayor Ruš insisted that you also show up here. I am particularly pleased that today's more respectful attitude towards you than it was the last time at Preshern's celebration, where you were our host or where you hosted us, and they have pushed you into the ministry of culture among photographers, that we could not even see you, even though we should thank you for your hospitality. Nor do we who come from northeastern Slovenia, but from Primorska or Ljubljana, have any reason to oppose the candidacy. Actually, there's no reason. And I must admit that even the great need to spend so much time today even at an extraordinary meeting to address this point, I do not see. If I recall that we have considered the Lisbon Strategy or the EU Treaty a little longer than today this point, where we are all "for" on our own terms and where it is possible that the decision could eventually be adopted by the Government itself and the reallocation in the budget as well. But maybe it's also a promotion of the project itself. As I say, there's no reason to oppose him in the real world. Such events benefit the country, of course, if it can take advantage of them. Remember what happened in Graz, how he flourished when he was the capital of culture, not only because of infrastructure interventions, but also because of good promotion. Let us remember how some thing that has been built for the benefit of a certain event, such as the New Town Fair, which is such a good sports infrastructure, may not be used now, so to speak, unless the theatre has settled in it. My point is that the benefit is of course important, and I have no doubt that the organisers will not be able to take advantage of this project if the state gains it. It's time to try again. We know he fell through for the year 2011. I hear we're really ready this time, so says the address of the material itself. We're ready. This is said to be the case in Parliament, of course, with material that is almost no longer to be called in a foreign language at the university, that we are not talking about the fact that no cultural event without special permission should be addressed in a foreign language. Well, we have an English slogan in Parliament, so I guess you'll be celebrating it; by the way, you're not running for last time. So we also count on these adjustments that would be worthy of our laws, if not ethically. Let me draw your attention to something I have already pointed out in my 2011 candidacy. The calculations presented in the works are very vague. In fact, even after yesterday's discussion within the parental committee, it was unclear whether the total cost would amount to 200 million euros, as local community representatives say, or whether it would amount to 30 million euros, as the papers show. Is the country really going to give only 6 million euros, which is supposed to be 30%, while, for example, local communities are now giving 4 million and a half. But we trust rationality, and we also trust the conclusion that the calculations should be presented with papers in the National Assembly after the end of the possible competition itself or the university, half a month after that. However, I would like to point out that we now have a project that is estimated to amount to €19 million for infrastructure investments, that is to say to modernise the halls, to build these snowy and I do not know which ski resorts and other facilities, and I fear that this is not the most real number. Of course, we are talking about the European funds that are, "if", and are estimated at 70 % of all assets, but these are always "if". The country's budget is always European and European, but we don't know if we always get it. But it is also necessary to pay attention to this side, which is always in some euphoria and satisfaction to compete for something that you would like to win, that you may forget too quickly. I am warning, of course, Mr Mayor so much more, the Maribor lobby, if you listen, so much more so that you have in 2012, that is one year earlier, in Maribor, the capital, that you are a European cultural capital. As I've been looking into the data, the cost, the value of the entire capital project, will be 160 million euros. At least that was what was said in 2006 when a project of application for the Maribor candidate organisation for the European Cultural Capital was being prepared. He laughs at you, Mr Mayor, at the sum of 2,200 million euros for the university, 160 million euros for the cultural capital. The coastline will have to hurry to balance. Ljubljana has been out of these for a long time, so I'll tell the game because it doesn't even have NUK. And I can end this enthusiasm for this candidacy with regret that, let's say librarians don't have any kind of competition, universities or something like that, because if they had, then maybe the NUK wouldn't be building 17 years and even all the promises, not just coalition contracts, not just the proposals of working governments, not just listening to all the hearings, and the years when you took this power role, of course, you all said that the NUK would be built. Now all we see is that it breaks down even more than you could even think, define. Well, certainly, I stress sports events and organisations, even though, personally, I also stress that this is a promotion of the state in any sense, if it can be used. But I also know that we do not play the same role as cultural events here, because cultural events are still neglected. We did not discuss working, living, and breathing in the year of Trubar in the National Assembly. We never said how much we would give for it, and we never said what we would do about it. Even when we had the year of Plečnik, so to speak, there were no greater emphasis, neither in the courtyard nor in the hall itself. In short, clean energy in 2012 with the European cultural capital and readiness, we are ready, will obviously in 2013 actually change what is happening in the field of development in Maribor for a long time, has long begun to happen and to develop. I also agree that it is not a transitionally desolated country, a landscape, a city, but also that with the help of pressures and smart lobbying policies in the National Assembly there has been enough emphasis that Maribor is different from he could have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Say hello to everyone again! The title of the agenda item, which speaks of prior agreement to the candidacy for the organisation of this university in Maribor in 5 years' time, speaks of us being at the beginning of the road. In the beginning, let us hope that the five-year path, which represents hard work, which also represents many more discussions, is likely to be many more debates, even in the National Assembly and at the government level, but we are confident that this path will be successful. We are also convinced of this because we are encouraged by last year's support, because we were also encouraged this year or last year, when we were preparing the budget for this year and for 2009 in the National Assembly and when the proposal for two amendments was made at the time, for the resources necessary for the candidates themselves that the two amendments in the National Assembly were supported. This speaks of the fact that we do not go completely unplanned, as some have thought, but that there is a relatively long way behind us, with a whole range of partners who are not all present in this room today. However, they were present when it was necessary to cast their vote when it was necessary to argue and support the preparation of this candidacy. Sadly, this is true only for a reason that is called time distress. If we had waited for this to be discussed in a regular session, the deadline for the candidacy would have been delayed. Therefore, we are likely to be obliged to thank all those who have helped. I must myself express this thanks to the Members and Members of Parliament who have contributed to the signatures that this extraordinary meeting has been convened by this item of the agenda, and also by all others in the Government and elsewhere who have supported us. The DeSUS Group, also on its behalf, I speak, and, of course, on behalf of the Mayor of the Ruša Municipality, where almost half of the events will take place, i.e. on our behalf I express undisputed support for this project. However, I must say another thank you, thanking the President of the National Assembly, after all the meetings yesterday afternoon, for sitting and negotiating whether or not the chief representative of the proposer could participate, this was approved, even though the president of the labour force insisted on doing so in the morning. Therefore, I must also say that I am a little surprised when I read the material or report of my parent’s working body, because this report is only in a small, modest piece and very incompletely reporting on what was actually happening on the committee. That the attitude towards this was at least very indolent on the part of individuals, for example, the fact that, today, the drafter of the additional decision was presented, which was unanimously confirmed as an opposition Member, even though Mr Willi Rezman proposed it. And I don't know why the chairman of the committee just moved me from the coalition to the opposition? And I don't know why he forgot that we have taken a decision to call on the President of the National Assembly to allow other candidates to perform, which, of course, is not recorded in the report. We hope that in the later process, the correctness of cooperation at a different level and more sincere, will not only be played for the public. Otherwise, on behalf of all those mentioned earlier, I would also like to support this proposal for a three-part decision. Some of the concerns we have heard today have also been heard on the parent’s working body and have already been answered there. If the report were correctly written, my current performance would be different, but now I am forced to comment on these questions and concerns. The main issues are two, but one of the main issues has always been whether the state of Slovenia can afford so much from the budget for the organisation and execution of this university in our Maribor end. We are, because these costs we're talking about have three parts. One part is, this is minor, so to speak, part of the costs that we have to cover in order to be able to apply the application together with the promotional materials at all. The second part, slightly more important, here we are talking about those thirty million euro, which, of course, is not contributed by the country from the budget and co-contributes, it is part of the funds that are intended for the organisation to then be carried out, and I have also calculated the costs of accommodation, transport and everything else that goes with it. Some of these 30 million are also intended for co-financing of facilities, but the largest part of the funds are resources that do not affect the budgets of the local community and not the budget of the state of Slovenia. This is the two hundred million euro mentioned, which I believe can be too small, that a slightly larger stake will be needed, and these are the resources of our economy. The economy, which is also dedicated to the Moroccan, Russian, German and other environment, is investing in the development of the economy, hospitality, tourism and also sports activities, as we know that a large part of the industry today is dedicated to meeting the needs that are called leisurely necessary and therefore this opportunity, this willingness to invest private capital in our environment, we are merely supporting budget resources. The projects we are talking about, from infrastructure, from roads, from parking lots, from sewers, from train stations, from water and other connections, projects called guest facilities called hotels would also be created otherwise and will also be realized if they were accidentally and unfortunately failed in the candidacy, but we do not believe that they would be unsuccessful. We are confident of the success of the candidacy. The candidate and organisation of the University of 2013 gives this economic flight only an additional impetus and a greater likelihood of realisation. When the local community stands up for such projects, when the country is also set up for such projects, then the certainty of investments is probably so much greater and the attractiveness of this destination is, let's say, the Maribor investment is so much greater. And that is why we know that although the university is at the forefront of supporting young people, students, universities, of course, it is a long time to support the economic restructuring of our region, it is a support for a different economy than we now have and it is an investment that will come back in a long time. All of this we had in mind when we argued that this university should be located in this area, which we now define with the three congregations. That is why we think it is wrong, although this is allowed, of course, that some still want to move the university all over Slovenia, where the facilities are more or less qualified already. We believe that it is necessary to take into account the fact that this is a regional project, that it is a matter of promoting some development in a specific area of our country, that it is a prepared economy here, that the economy has already invested here, and that there are other actors here that are partners in this big project. By the way, in the municipality of Ruše, the ski track, which will be 4 kilometres long, weighs EUR 20 million in total private capital, except for the part where we manage to obtain European grants. These are also reasons to support the university right here, where we propose to support it without any concerns, because the indirect positive effects will be felt by Slovenia as a whole. Let me stress once again that the DeSUS Group will support this and that it expects all of us to support this idea unanimously as we did last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by its fellow Member, Srečko Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. The agreement to apply for the University of 2013 is certainly given unanimously in the hands of the mayor. I'm sorry he's not here. I would like that the city of Maribor in Primorsk is not in Styria, because the city of Maribor with its surroundings will receive several new infrastructure facilities, as well as hotels and sports facilities that will remain in this space and will also offer a later permanent tourist offer and will also improve in some way the quality of life in the Styrian capital. As I said, it's a little sad that it's not in Primorska. My wish is, and I hope, that the organizers will also take into account that the slogan is also a little goodbye, so that it does not sound so strange. And, what is essential, I would like to point out that every jealousy is superfluous, because we know that Maribor has already tried to obtain it, and somehow Turkey has taken it over with some additional promises of patronage. And as we've already said, if there's anything else we want to do, we've heard before that libraries aren't exactly what we want them to be, then let's report another project. I believe that behind this project is a lot of people who have invested a lot of energy in putting it into effect and putting it under the roof, as it is called, and on my part, all the support. And I hope that we will also be able to see a beautiful event, which Slovenia will certainly be proud of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. However, I will lead the debate on the basis of the list of applicants. I would like to take the floor with you, Commissioner Christian Janz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of Maribor, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps even at this point in the parliamentary groups there will be consensus. I am very pleased that sport is so good at connecting people and different colors policies. This should be done several times in this house, unfortunately not enough times. I will be pleased to support this decision for the second time today, because this winter university event in Maribor is certainly a great opportunity for Slovenia, a great opportunity for the Styrians and not least a great opportunity, and one thanks for the excellent organizers who have already proved under Pohorje to be good at handling their business, and, last but not least, this perseverance that I appreciate, if you fail for the first time, then you try the second time, and I believe that it will not be necessary for the third time, but, to the best of my knowledge, the Stajers will also try in third time, if it is necessary and this must be appreciated by the organizers, in the municipalities, in those partners that have become well integrated together into one whole and I think that this project will be set in order for anyone else in Slovenia to make a model example of how to undertake such projects in Slovenia in such a way, with such a momentum and with such a happy and coherent way. It is a great opportunity, certainly, for the development of this part of Slovenia, for infrastructure, opportunity for young people, for education, for promotion, for the many economic and other effects that colleagues have already announced before me here, and I could also list what this brings together at such a big event as the university, when it is an opportunity for young people from the world to come to Slovenia, come to this part of Slovenia and together bring good impressions. I believe they'll have a chance to get them, too. I also believe that this 31 May 2008 will be a happy day in Brussels for organisers, Slovenia and, finally, for the National Assembly and the Government. They seem to have full consent to the event here. May this day be more pleasing to you than it was a while ago when there was less satisfaction. And as I have already said, if there is to be a third, it is the will, it is the will, and I hope that the Government and Parliament will also confirm another round of this matter at that time, although this is likely to be in the future mandate of the government and if there is a need for governments and parliament. So, as organizers of this event, I wish you every success, as far as possible, in promoting Slovenia for this kind of sport. This, as I said before, you have knowledge and experience, this is a very important wealth that the Styrians have, and I believe that you will well cash it, that these will be one of the best games that have ever been organized in the world. In short, I also hope that one of those fighters will still be the mayor of the Maribor Municipality of Kangler. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u117	Thank you very much. However, Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, the Municipality of Maribor! I am also pleased to welcome today's support for this candidacy for the organisation of the university, which is the second most important sports event immediately for the Olympics. But it's not just a sports event. For Maribor, the area of Pohorje and its surroundings and for the whole of Slovenia, this means much more. This brings a number of synergies, both in the field of sport, economy, development and I am pleased that the government of Janez Janša has been supporting this project for the second time and thus clearly shows that it wants fresh blood to come to this area, this part of Stygerska to develop comprehensively. That the development of this work was faster than it had been in the past, when Maribor and the surrounding area endured the difficult times of the transition transition. I am also pleased that today this project will obviously be supported by opposition parties who have recently opposed one extremely important project, which would also bring more development, faster development, more equitable development in the Styria area, to other regions, that is to say that they have rejected the landscape project. Members from Maribor and Styria. In fact, this support is not entirely honest today, because through the landscape project we could bring in significantly more resources, Europeans. You disable certain resources due to the centralist policy of your customers. And I am also pleased that today there are no concerns about the organisation of certain branches, even in the Styria area, as they were present two years ago. And here I have to say that all the disciplines of winter sport also have high-quality representatives, for example today, including in the area of Styria, so in ski jumping one of the best jumpers in the European Cup, competitioner Mandel from Šmartna on Pohorje, was recently, it seems to me that the third or fourth in the state championship. That he was a Biathlon Rajsp, a runner. And I must point out that our top runner, Majičeva, has said that she does not know such a running centre and such extraordinary positions and exceptional opportunities for running and competing training throughout Europe. This is an outstanding tribute to the leading contestant in the world Cup in sprint discipline. Of course, this, as I said, will also multiply these synergistic effects. A lot of this is already in the budget and is already under way, because the government did not withdraw the support it gave two years ago for this organisation, and unfortunately we did not get it then, but some projects have already been budgeted on this basis. One of these, I must say, is probably also the Slemen road - the connection of all skis: Rogle, the Three Kings in the Bistrian congregation, Areha and the Maribor Pohorje, with access through Oplotnica, Cezlak to Jurgovego. Projects and the realisation of this project finally begin this year. I must stress from this city that the competitions will also be held in the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, because Jurgovo and the tower in Rogla belong to the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica and that the contestants will also receive cultural and sacral heritage in Areh, because the church of Sv. Lovrenca in Areh is also part of the Municipality of Slovenia. And it is not possible to connect all of these locations without crossing both the top and the bottom of the Pohorje region of the Bistric municipality. Once again, I expect this assistance, this support, which this project and this great event are intended and promised from all sides, to remain so in the future. Even less opposition to the decentralisation of Slovenia by opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u119	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Milana M. Squeakle. [[He's not here.]] Member Branko Marinič has the floor. I give my word to Mr. Martin Mikolitch. I'm sorry, but my colleague Jerovšek was standing in front of you, and I didn't see you. Here you go, Comrade Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u120	I'm sorry to keep you waiting, but my friends stood up before me, and I didn't see you. Thank you so much for the president's word. Dear Mr Simon Starček from the Ministry of Education. Dear colleagues! You know, if you could interpret a little now who's got the most credit for getting it all together, I'd probably do something wrong, and I don't want it at all. Certainly, however, the Ministry of Education and Sport has shown a great deal of responsibility to sport and to other economic sectors which integrate all branches with some event. Of course, he is also the tailor who has prepared the whole thing. So that we may come to the conclusion at the end that perhaps we are Members and Members of Parliament who will have the easiest job in doing so. It is a decision whether or not to do so and who has anything to do with such an event as the winter university, which would be like that in Maribor in 2013. However, I would like to remind you of some familiar facts from the past. In 2006, when Slovenia ran for office and we also made a positive decision in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, this unfortunately did not come true later, for 2011, because this university will be in Turkey. I hope and I want us to succeed this time. Of course, success will be known somewhere toward the end of May. I hope so. But I am sure, given that I know these entities involved in preparing to be successful. For they already have quite a few experiences, this experience should be recollected. From the past, we have certainly learned something from it so that we can count on it positively. With this event Slovenia, not only Maribor, gets Slovenia, not four municipalities, as it was heard today, gets Slovenia, gets Europe. Because it's about participating in competitions from 55 countries, there are 4,000 contestants. It's a big number and a big opportunity, not just for promotion, but for what we're all looking for together. This is an economic potential in all different areas and, of course, we have here all the interest to be as present and as much out of it as possible. It is from this market point of view that we must take into account these lobbies that overcame us in 2006. You know, this is a huge lobbyist potential that works this time. Maybe we are discussing this today and we are trying to make this happen in 2013 with us in Maribor. Some may, however, have lost their hands in these lobbying circles today as to how it will be elsewhere. I want us to be successful here. I wish Maribor and Slovenia had one of these. For we know that the World Cup, the Golden Fox competition in Maribor, even if we move it for weather reasons to Kranjska Gora, is an excellent and highly rated event on a global scale. I am sure that if we succeed at the university in 2013, we have nothing to fear, because I am sure that all those who will cooperate in one way or another, in preparation, in carrying out their work themselves, will carry out their work responsibly, and in particular in the interest of some concrete gain. Not on the short term, perhaps on the longer term, because in the numbers I have already mentioned, it is necessary to count that it is a longer period for those who will experience something beautiful at this event to always come back. Their descendants will also return and so on. In short, let us succeed that the winter university will be "totem beautiful Maribor" in 2013.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Martin Mikolić.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! I, too, have not changed my position two years ago, and I will also support today's winter university candidacy. In particular, it leads me to say that because Maribor has a large part of the infrastructure with all the surroundings planned to be the site of the university. However, certain infrastructure will certainly need to be built, and we are all aware of this, and we are also building up. But given that this is a national project, if I may say so, then it is only right to support the project. However, I would agree with my colleague Jerovšek if we already had the provinces today, there would certainly be a slightly different approach to this project. Moreover, it is only one argument that it would somehow be right to divide Slovenia into provinces and decentralize it. I would like to point out that I was happy to look at the material I have here. In the past, Slovenian athletes have also achieved very important, visible achievements at universities. We certainly know who can perform at the university. Since I am also a great sports fan and have accompanied sports for decades, I was often disturbed by the university itself that some criteria changed overnight. And I am sure that at this university, when it will, it will not be possible for someone two months before the university begins, once again, I am sure that in Maribor, he will receive the index and return it two months after the university. I would be very happy, given that so many Slovenian athletes participated in the university, many awards were listed here if these athletes had the appropriate education you receive at the university today. That's the right thing to say. It is true that this is not only the problem of Slovenia, it is the problem of all those countries that participate with their athletes, athletes at the university and it is right to be aware here whether everyone is aware that there are certain rules for each sport competition, certain criteria, including who can participate in such a competition. Certainly, as I said in the introduction, I support the candidacy and I hope that the Maribor Municipality will also succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u123	Thank you very much. However, Member Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. I also want to support the implementation of the winter university in Maribor. Especially in the fact that such events are always very important for the promotion of Slovenia, in this case also Maribor - capital of Stajerska. At the same time, of course, I would like to point out that Maribor will also support other places and places in the organization of other different events. I would like to highlight one of such events, for which Maribor and Kočev are actually competing, is a youth-based fire-fighting Olympics. I hope that Maribor will receive the winter university and, of course, will then be kind to Kočev and help him bring out the Youth Fire Olympics and thus become an Olympic city. I hope for good cooperation in all these procedures and in mutual support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u125	Thank you very much. But the word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Greetings to colleagues and colleagues and, of course, since the beginning, sincere recognition to all those who have already put some effort, some work into the Maribor University Project 2013, both to those at the Ministry of Education and Sport, as well as to colleagues - the mayor of the Maribor municipality and to his associates. Of course, sport is an important category and I think that this category, regardless of the predictions of some speakers in front of me who are politically overloaded and tense, has no opposition and no opponents. Of course, we have to take the project seriously on one hand and, of course, also look after the financial consequences. Such a story, witnessing quite a few examples from the world, can also be a first - class promotion and, of course, a successful business. I want and I am sure that the Styrians will succeed in both areas, win as candidates, win in organisational and economic terms and, of course, the winners will then be all those generations of children and young people who will come to these beautiful and restored facilities for decades to come. So, successful and happy Maribor 2013! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Member Happy Hwauc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! We tried once, but unfortunately it didn't work out, but I think it's right that the organizers and all those who are trying and trying to win this really important sport event in Slovenia don't throw the rifle into the corn and try again. This time I think that, although it was very good in the first attempt, the prospects are much, much better. Of course, this is not a local event, but it is a Slovenian national project. It is true that most of these events will be held in Maribor or in the wider area and in Pohorje, but this is also a great opportunity for the rest of Slovenia to present ourselves to show what we are, what we are going through, what we can offer. From this point of view, I think it is really very important that the Government has also listened to or taken such an approach that it has once again supported this project and I do not think that there will be any concerns in our assembly as well. I think it doesn't even matter at this point where these individual disciplines are going to take place. I think that while we don't have cake, it doesn't make sense to talk about how we're going to split each other's pieces. That was pretty current two years ago. Today I see that most of them have no problems and it is more important that we focus on gathering all the forces to look for all possible levers so that Maribor and Slovenia can succeed this path. The event itself will have several different effects. It is true that some buildings will need to be built, but these facilities will remain in this environment not only for sport purposes, facilities that will also serve the further development of tourism in this area, the further development of sport in this area, and from this point of view I think it is right that the state also helps to modernise or build certain individual facilities. I agree that Maribor was his time there in the mid-80s, really an industrial desert. It's the city that paid the highest price. This very city also paid during the transition, it was very unemployed and I am pleased that these conditions are gradually changing, that the city of Maribor gradually revives, that it has its culture, its theatre, that it will be a cultural capital. And this university will also be a step towards bringing this city together and becoming a truly modern, vibrant European city. Maribor and its surroundings already have many infrastructure facilities, and it is also important that at the time of this event, which I hope will, and also later, have very good transport infrastructure. This infrastructure is actually already being built. In the vicinity of Maribor we have a huge construction site, as far as the motorway and the railway, the Slovnica-Gruškovje motorway, in the programme is an update of the airport. So in this respect, I think that Maribor will also be ready for this candidacy or this event. However, some other infrastructure facilities or transport infrastructure facilities are being renovated, such as the Areh road is scheduled for this year for modernisation or repair, as well as on the other hand, as colleague Jerovšek has already said, the road from Cezlak to Pohorje. All of this, together with all the infrastructure sports facilities, will, I think, be enough to successfully carry out such a great international event. Of course, I will absolutely support this once again, without any doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Franz Pukšič. [[He's not here.]] Member Rudolf Moge has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Mayor of the University of Franc Kangler, our former colleague, Mr. Kugovnik, representative of the Ministry, colleague and colleague, nice greeting! One of the indicators of how quickly climate change can take place in the National Assembly is today. If there was some winter cold going through these rooms at the previous point, I must say, they're just taking a nice spring nappie right now. It rarely happens that it's even a quadramming of the same opinion. It is a representative of the Slovenian University Sports Union, Mr Kugovnik, for the Mayor, for the Minister, and even for the Chairman of the Home Committee, who all blew into the same horn. And it is pleasant with such agreement and with such good, positive energy as the name of a project in Maribor, to join forces and such a project to support. I think some have tried to show Maribor only through some gray and similar things. But I must say that Maribor, at least for me, the inhabitants of that part of Slovenia, is glowing something else. Maribor was the first of all cities in the Republic of Slovenia to make a connection with the university by means of a memorandum and to allocate additional funds, as well as additional programmes to facilitate the work of the University of Maribor. What congregation in history was previously such that it provided an entire building worth billions of dollars in use by the university? What congregation was such that it gave free land, not so long ago, to a medical university? What municipality in Slovenia was such that it gave up all municipal contributions only to place institutions in its territory that could in the future help the country as such to meet its own European summit? But that people in Maribor were also good organizers shows the type of events. If we leave Borstnik's meeting behind, and the Lent Festival, then there's definitely no Slovenian who wouldn't know what the Golden Fox is. This competition has been on a global scale every year and is still one of the most receptive on the organizational side, it is always flattering and it should be said that whenever I meet with you fellow Members at that competition there, we can say that the peaceful souls can say that this competition somehow unites us and that we draw enough of the ideas from there to move a project, which we could never move in the narrow party or national assembly interests. That's why Maribor has a wider backdrop of municipalities, that is, all of Styria, all of the attributes that are necessary to make such a competition, and I also think that we will succeed this time. I'm not sure, but I think we're gonna make it. Because to pool so much energy and bring it together in such a positive form, I think it will be necessary to lobby some more, but it is already outside this hall that this team around our mayor will eventually succeed. If we look at how we are doing other projects, perhaps even harder, then I can say that this project, as you all have already said, will give the northeast part of Slovenia new opportunities in the field of sport, infrastructure, employment and visibility. I think that this project, a project that will also to some extent eliminate these differences in development in the Republic of Slovenia. You, Mr Kugovnik and Mr Mayor, want a happy hand in this project in all respects, perhaps even in a time that is not entirely up to our Members, but I could tell the rest that I am sure that the project will succeed because of that famous saying that you all know. We don't give up on the real Slovenians, but the Styrians don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u131	Thank you very much. But to my word I call on Ambassador Rudolph Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So, we've discussed this a lot before, on our first run. This time, however, the concept of the implementation of this event is somewhat different and less centralistic. By then, some of us had pointed to the possibility and better possibilities of spreading events across the wider Pohorje. I myself have also proposed Rogla and thus Zreško Pohorje, as a candidate for the organization of any of the disciplines, not just one, but the ones that will make sense. Because, unfortunately, Maribor's candidacy was not successful at the time, but the classification of Zreč and Rogle, as one of the organizers, was now received and incorporated directly into the project. I would also like to say that this infrastructure and organisation alone in this area is subject to an extremely strong cattle economy, which I believe is the strongest in this region, more than anywhere else, where events would take place. Finally, the Municipality Council of Zreče has already given its consent, and this project has been supported unanimously by the Universities and Rogli as one of the possible venues of the event. I am also pleased that this is followed by the Government, because without the government's cooperation, without the government's help, this would remain only a paper project and an organiser's wish. The government supports this project for the second time, I think Slovenia can afford such an event. Finally, good economic indicators are also talking about this, and I think it is right that the Government has decided to back this up again. However, I think it is also right that there has been a dispersion, because for such a large event there is probably a small space too small, and I am sure that the entire Pohorje would hardly be quite large. But good. What's supposed to be, I think it's the right thing to do. I would like to point out that the construction of the infrastructure of the new centre, which will be built in one way or another, is envisaged on Rogla. I hope that this centre will be built before the university and that it will also come exactly for the implementation of the event within the framework of the university. In this context, it will only be possible to confirm this centre in Rogla and the correct direction of the economy, which supports the development of tourism and sports in Rogla and in the whole of the region, which is also one of the reasons why I have supported this project since the first proposal was made. Now that this is also official, this part of Pohorje, called Zreško Pohorje, is classified as potential organisers, but of course I remain in this and, of course, with greater ease, I can confirm this proposal when the vote takes place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u133	Thank you very much. There's no one in the hall that's been reported yet. Does he want a representative of the government? No, no, no. Thus, I can say that we are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members or with the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COURT OF SLOVENIA, AFTER A PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I should give the word to the government's representative. He's coming. Let me wait a few minutes. Otherwise, in order not to wait, I invite Mrs. Marjetko Uhan. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as a working mother and therefore I give the floor to the president to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Agriculture, Forestry and Food was held at the 22nd urgent meeting yesterday, as a working mother body, before the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption after a reduced procedure. At its 121st regular meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives of the proposed law, the Law and Law Service, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in Replace and Worldwide, and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. In addition to the draft law, members of the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the comments of the Association of Slovenia and the letter from the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia. The amendments of the coalition and Mr Posedel were tabled. As a motioner, the Minister briefly presented the text of the amendment of the law, which is its purpose and purpose. I hope that when he comes, he will explain it again, so I would not repeat it in this time-consuming way. We have also received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and then additional comments, in particular on those articles and amendments in which they did not take into account the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, namely the acquisition of personal data, the EMSO, the tax number for the purposes of collecting membership, as well as who has the right of recovery to a compendium. Representatives of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber explained why and why both personal data are needed and why the Chamber would have the right to collect the chamber's contribution. Following the discussion were representatives of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, President. However, in the debate on individual articles, where Members and others were invited to participate, there was a debate on Article 3 where the amendment of Mr Posedel was tabled, which envisaged an increase of the mandatory membership threshold to EUR 320, but this amendment did not receive support. The biggest debate was on Article 8 and the amendment tabled by the coalition, namely that the law provides for or applies to this year's elections. The Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 7, 8 and 9 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, and then the amendment to the amendment to Article 8, which states that the elections or invitation to tender, published yesterday in the Official Journal, are hereby repealed. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles together and also adopted them. This is also what I propose to the National Assembly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u136	Nice greetings to all present! On the basis of the amendment of the law, a set of data on natural persons to be obtained by the Chamber for the purpose of keeping and maintaining the records of its members will be expanded, while also establishing a basis for obtaining this data from your register. Data on natural persons, which, in addition to the information already provided for in the collection of the law for this purpose, should be further obtained and related to the tax number, transaction invoice numbers, the address for service and the information on their residence and employment status. I believe that such data collection powers are too large, as they will collect too much data in this way. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber would have the power, in addition to the assessment and collection of the assembly contribution, to introduce and conduct a procedure for recovery of outstanding and outstanding amounts of the assembly contribution only on rights, not on what the Chamber will offer to its members. I would also like to say that the proposed option seems a little better to me than it was the previous one, and the best would be the one that would make it voluntary for the Farmers' Chamber and that members can also expect certain services or services in exchange for their contribution from the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor. Excuse me. Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, chairman. Given that we are adopting an extremely important law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural and Economy Chamber, which also affects the electoral rights of the members of this Chamber, it would be extremely important and necessary for representatives of the Government or the proposer to attend this debate, so I suggest that you try to check whether they can join us at this point before the debate continues with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. But if not, I'd suggest you set a time for you to estimate that we wait for the government to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I feel the same way you do. That's right. They told me he was on his way. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Sušnik, the Minister is on his way and we can proceed. On behalf of the Government, Mr Iztok Jarc, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will give an opinion. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, which was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in December 2007 for adoption by the National Assembly. The aim of amendments to the House Act is to establish an even more representative and effective form of integration and presentation, in particular, of the interests of farmers, agricultural, forestry and fisheries organisations and professional assistance. The proposal for a law is based on the principle of compulsory membership in a chamber of those who own, lease or have the right to use agricultural and forestry land actually engaged in agricultural or forestry activities or who are owners, tenants or have the right to use land and thus have an interest in the services and services of the Chamber. The bill amends and complements the following areas of the current law. First time. It allows the Chamber to access data on legal and natural persons to carry out the tasks set out in this Act. The Regional Units of the Chamber shall include newly formed municipalities. It raises the threshold for compulsory membership of natural persons in the House from thirty-three to one hundred seventy-seven euros. It allows voluntary membership of persons engaged in agricultural, forestry or fishing activities without permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Eliminates the legal void as regards the dosage, collection and recovery of the assembly contribution. The amounts in the applicable law shall be converted from tolars to euro. The transitional provisions lay down the conditions for the holding of elections to the Parliamentary bodies in accordance with this proposal for a law. The law shall enter into force the following day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill complements the right of the Chamber to obtain data from public books and the collection of data that the Chamber urgently needs to carry out the tasks set out in this Act. Certain public books or databases are kept for natural persons on the basis of EMŠO, a land cadaster and others on the basis of tax number, a business register of Slovenia for independent entrepreneurs of individuals. Therefore, data on EMSU and on the tax number are allowed in the Chamber for specific tasks. The bill increases the entry threshold from €83 to €167 of cadastral income for compulsory membership of natural persons in the Chamber, reducing compulsory membership from 172 to 110,000, representing a 35% reduction in membership. This brings the number of natural persons closer to the number of agricultural holdings registered in the agricultural holding register. The average land size per debtor increases from 1.7 to 3.3 hectares. Catastrophe income shall be determined on the basis of a cadastral income law and shall be attributed as such to any agricultural or forestry land in the cadastral region. In order to reduce the number of mandatory members of the Chamber, the number of representatives of natural persons in the Council of the Chamber is consequently reduced from 67 to 43. Consequently, and in accordance with this proposal, the number of representatives of legal persons from 26 to 13 decreases, meaning instead of two representatives per representative from each district unit of the Chamber. This maintains the existing relationship between the number of representatives of natural and legal persons in the world of the Chamber or even increases slightly in favour of the latter. With the implementation of the Tax Procedure Act, Article 26 of the Chamber Act, which provided for the collection, collection and recovery of a chamber contribution, or for their work, of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, was repealed, thereby creating a legal void which the proposal for law removes by conferring jurisdiction on the chamber itself for the assessment, collection and recovery of the chamber’s contribution. The transitional provisions shall lay down the conditions for the holding of elections to the Parliamentary bodies, which shall set a 30-day deadline for the harmonisation of the Statute, four months for the conduct of the elections, an extension of the mandate of the Parliamentary bodies until the term of office elected in accordance with this Act takes place and the electoral tasks carried out shall be abolished. The law should be enforced the following day following the publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to ensure that the elections of the assembly bodies in accordance with this Act are carried out as soon as possible. Finally, allow me to thank the dentist for including the bill in today's session and the members of the home committee for yesterday's constructive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in its eight-year operation, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber justified its purpose and, of course, the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, which was adopted by the Government at the end of December of the previous year, responded to those shortcomings which had been demonstrated in the past eight-year work of the Chamber. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that this response is appropriate and appropriate in response to numerous complaints by small owners of agricultural land and forests in the Republic of Slovenia, which were legally binding members of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, but do not belong to those whose agricultural activity is the main activity. So prepared is, in our view, a suitable basis for the Chamber to be able to operate well and qualitatively in the future, but I think it is important to stress that this law has been fully aligned with all the social partners, civil and social organisations operating in the field of agriculture. In our view, the basic objective of the law is to establish and consolidate a Chamber as a representative and effective form of integration of key players involved in agriculture in the broadest sense of the word. At the same time, the aim of the law is to exempt the mandatory membership of those small owners of agricultural land, leasers, consumers and holders of the right to use agricultural land and forests, whose agricultural activity, as I have already said, is not a priority and which does not reach the cadastral income of EUR 167, which is a new threshold for compulsory membership. After the entry into force of this Act, the mandatory members of the Chamber will remain those who are actually engaged in agriculture or forestry and thus demonstrate interest in the services and services of the Chamber. As I have already said, the threshold for compulsory membership of natural persons increases twice, which is a 35% reduction in the number of mandatory members, from somewhere from 172,000 to around 111,000, almost fully approaching the number of registered agricultural holdings. It is also important to reduce the number of pilgrims. However, the obligation of membership remains for those natural persons who are actually engaged in agriculture and whose agriculture is an important source of subsistence. The law also achieves rationalisation in terms of reducing the number of members in the Council of Chambers. The fact is that the number of representatives of natural persons is falling to 43, and it is also implied that in the Council a chamber from another constituency, that is from a number of legal persons, elects one member per district unit, that is, after the new 13 members of the Council of the Chamber. This is also an important and welcome rationalisation. In the parliamentary group, we also support the proposal to extend the mandate of the Parliamentary bodies and the proposed way to conduct elections to the Council of the Chamber. As you have heard, I have mentioned that the law was passed in the Government in December, but that similar proposals have resulted in the embarrassment we are facing. I would also like to say that we do not support the amendments of the Group of Social Democrats, because we believe that the law fully regulates the set of data which the Chamber can collect for the dosage and accounting of membership. We also believe that the law in the transitional provisions fully resolves the dilemma created by the late examination of the law, which is due to the fact that legal proposals have also been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The amendments and additions to the Agricultural and Economic Chamber Act have a decisive impact on who will be the mandatory member in the future in the Agricultural and Economic Chamber and who will have the right to vote. We can understand from the proposal that this is twice as much cadastral income as it has been so far, which sets a limit for compulsory membership in the Chamber, which means that some mandatory members will be around 111,000 or some 60,000 less than they have been before. We support such solutions in the Group of Social Democrats, but we believe that the change in the law should be of greater interest to farmers, which is why this Chamber even exists, and it was of interest to legislate an optional membership. We believe that during this period we should consider the possibility of setting a deadline of two, perhaps three years when there is compulsory membership, and after that period there will be situations where farmers decide whether they will be members of the Chamber or not. However, this is a debate that is not today, because the content of the law is different. However, we must point out that today the National Assembly is enacting law after the call for elections to the House. It is unacceptable and, in our view, contrary to the legislation, it is necessary to amend or interfere with the electoral procedures already under way. We believe it is unconstitutional to change the rules of the elections or to suspend the proceedings initiated. Therefore, we must point out that the Government, because of the obvious disagreements in the coalition, has introduced the law too late and in a way that it does not want to, but also cannot respect the Slovenian legal order with this content, but is currently following the political will. In addition, we must add that the statute of the Chamber of Agriculture sets out the key to the allocation of mandates to the offices of the Chamber. The Statute provides in Article 16 that one representative of cooperatives and representatives of other legal persons shall be elected from another electoral group from each regional unit to the Council of the Chamber. This ensures that cooperatives are provided by each electoral group of members in the Council of Chambers and that all other legal persons are, in fact, left to the outcome of the elections. This is the key if we already have one that should be written in the law and not in the statute of the chamber. For tomorrow, the statutes may state that the parish offices of each district unit have one representative. They shall ensure that their representative is elected to the Council. And again, that agricultural companies have one representative per district unit. Such an arrangement in the Statute, we believe, is contrary to the Constitution or in our opinion would not have upheld the constitutional judgment. As long as such solutions are in the statute of the Chamber, we cannot speak as stated in Article 1 of the Statute that the Chamber is an autonomous, non-political and professional organisation. Today we can talk about the fact that it depends on the interest of cooperatives, that it depends on current political options and is under-expert, because it does not allow the election of representatives from agricultural enterprises who, by the way, employ the most highly educated personnel in the field of agriculture. Above all, I stress that the interests of farmers are completely neglected in these procedures. In our view, the interest of farmers has been significantly better expressed in recent times through trade unions, not through the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Because of such a situation that this law does not abolish, and especially because the amendment of the law is being adopted in the National Assembly at the time of the electoral process under the law currently in force, we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u146	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. He also greets the minister and his coworkers. What about the farm-house law? You could call it something like yesterday's snow: better late than never. Because of the crop in agriculture. We've heard that some have made strange laws. Without a doubt, we waited for the government and had three years to do something about it, and today we are told stories and shared by the Levites. This law was written in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club with the same content, with the same corrections about two and a half years ago. Just so that policy would not exacerbate the situation for the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, we were cautious about this, and then it really happened that someone else had actually tabled it. But nothing's wrong. It is precisely those goals that we have pursued in this legal amendment that have been achieved. From the chamber come people who are part of the agricultural land, part of the garden, part of the lawn inherited and are not real farmers, and in this interest association they simply have nothing to look for. It is still the goal of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament that, in a transitional period of five or ten years, we receive such a chamber in which voluntary membership will be possible, the chamber itself, which works well, is necessary, but never, and never so well, that it could not be even better, but it is necessary to make minor changes in the 10 years to become such a respectable, such a good institution that, despite the fact that membership will be voluntary, there are always enough members in it. Yesterday, I said that this moment, when the chamber does a great and important work in Slovenian agriculture, with the chamber about as much as with the tickets and with its membership fee, when you get at least five times more with the luck on the fireman's fun for about 2 euros, as much as it costs a membership fee or a ticket. And that's good for farmers and those who do farming. We could share a thought as to whether the number 111,000 is real. In our view, it could also be smaller if a number were to be rounded there between 65, 70, 75,000, as much as the number of those in that country investing in agricultural subsidies, which are an important, necessary part of rural income, which is important for rural survival. And if anyone does, then the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber will certainly help them out of all of this. Maybe we could talk about the election, too. Sometimes I get the feeling that in this case we have elections before the elections. We could also bring the matter together and give agriculture, our environment and space, agriculture and rurals no doubt deserve this for one of the hottest and most outstanding pre-election themes in September. And so we're going through procedures there that are actually starting, because of the delay of the authorities we're canceling them, and of course today, if there's a majority will -- and I think that's right -- we've fixed it and solved it, so we don't object. We are skeptical, however, that from another group of members of the Council we are reducing the number from 26 to 13. In particular, we are concerned about whether the 13 will be elected - whether this will be real, true representatives of Slovenian agriculture or whether they will be representatives of certain ownership or ideological interests. We currently have about 1,280 agricultural organisations and institutions in Slovenia. Of these, there are 705 bishops and similar organizations. The deformation of this system, as we now have, is that many important factors in Slovenian agriculture have emerged from this complex of decision-making and representation. And it will be bad for Slovenian agriculture if, for example, companies such as the Ptuj Agricultural Union, which has over 3,000 hectares of land and has strong interests in this area, unfortunately, due to the electoral system today outside the decision-making area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u148	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear Minister with colleagues, representatives of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, all those accompanying today's meeting! The new law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia raises the mandatory membership threshold by 100%, now to EUR 167 of the cadastral income. This means that mandatory members of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber will be those with cadastral income of more than EUR 167 or 3.3 hectares of agricultural area. Compulsory members shall have the right to vote and be elected to the offices of the Chamber. In particular, the number of Pavšalists, those paying the lowest contribution, will be reduced by 80%, or the number of mandatory members will decrease by 35% and from 172 thousand to 111 thousand. In particular, the current members who have very little land, which does not constitute the main or main activity of agriculture, who do not feel that they belong to the agricultural chamber, who do not have enough with agriculture, will, of course, still be able to volunteer if they so wish. The number of members of the Board of Chambers is changing or decreasing from 93 to 56: 43 members will be represented by natural persons and 13 will be represented by legal persons, the latter from each regional unit one by one. The law will already apply to this year's elections, and it is also appropriate for an amendment that legitimizes it. And if I answer the public debate: Why did we demand elections after the new and not the old law in Novi Slovenija? Because the amendment to the Law refers to elections or to membership in the Chamber and only members have the right to vote and to be loved in the bodies of the Chamber. As the number of voters and the composition of the world as the highest body of the Chamber is changing, the elections, according to New Slovenia, under the old law and the possible adoption of the new law would therefore be constitutionally controversial. "A better sparrow in hand than a pigeon on a roof," we could say for the end in Novi Slovenije, which we had recorded in our programme an optional membership and later gave in the coalition to raise the threshold. This could be achieved in the current coalition and in this mandate. I hope that the law will finally be passed, which at least partially corrects the current situation. We were aware that insisting on our demands would not lead to the adoption of a new law and would remain with the elderly. However, we are also aware, and this should also be done by the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, so that only marriage obligations do not provide satisfaction among the members of the Chamber. It is necessary to build on trust, accessibility, expertise and consistency. In Novi Slovenije we are aware that voluntary membership at this time would constitute a collapse of the Chamber, which would also mean great harm to members because they need a non-governmental organisation representing their interests. In Nova Slovenija we will support the amendment of the law and amendments that provide a solution to the law that is valid immediately after the publication of the Official Journal and ensures the legitimacy of this year's elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u150	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber was certainly set up in 2000 in order to be a representative institution to represent the interests of agriculture or activities related to agriculture, forestry and fisheries. Today these interests are very uneven and agricultural activity is becoming more and more economic activity from day to day, and this is such an economic activity where large fish like to eat very little. Perhaps that is why we need so much more the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, where such and other interests are gathered from the everyday and where the competent authorities are trying to unify them as quickly as possible. To ensure that farmers can be credible partners in the market and under conditions with other industries and ultimately with the country. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber does not in fact bring about major and substantial changes. In particular, changes will not have a major impact on those who are actually engaged in agricultural activities, and this means survival. Membership as proposed remains mandatory. The fact is that if we had more professional farms and farmers in Slovenia, which would depend solely on income from agricultural activities and would be aware of the importance of organisation, we could also introduce voluntary membership at this time. However, since such farms are few, we could quickly find ourselves without a room. As she found yesterday, there was a debate and also discussions with people that farmers need a chamber at this time. In addition to representing the interests of farmers, agricultural, forestry and fisheries organisations and professional assistance, the Chamber also deals with the issue of agriculture, forestry, fisheries, by participating in the preparation of regulations in this area, by drawing attention to the effects of these, the professional training of its members, by promoting and participating in the preparation of Slovenia's positions in the substantive and relevant fields and so on. And this is all the bodies of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, both the advisory service and the agri-veterinary institutions. However, we must admit that farmers over the work of the chamber are often disappointed, and they feel that they do not benefit enough. Counselors are no longer advisers, but are increasingly becoming bureaucrats who are only dealing with the fulfilment of applications for subsidies. Whether it is the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, or the European Community or the Chamber itself, it would not be the case, but it certainly does not solve this issue of the law that we are considering today. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the bill. However, we are aware, as I have already mentioned, that a substantial change actually concerns those who will no longer be mandatory members of the Chamber. It is therefore proposed that the entry threshold for compulsory membership of natural persons in the Chamber be raised by 100% to EUR 167 of the cadastral income. This represents an increase from 1.7 hectares to 3.3 hectares of land on average per debtor. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the members of the Chamber are only those who are actually engaged in agricultural or forestry activities or those who, depending on the average size of the land, show an interest after representing their interests in the Chamber. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, it seems important to us that the proposed amendment of the law also brings us closer to the number of agricultural holdings that are registered in the register of agricultural holdings. In the Group of Members, we believe that the Chamber of Amendments and the Supplementation of the Law will continue to enable the implementation of the basic tasks that are set up and represent the interests of farmers, agricultural and fisheries organisations and professional assistance to them. The amendments also bring administrative burden on the Chamber itself, as the number of members of those not engaged in agricultural activities will be significantly reduced. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will adopt a proposal for amendments and amendments to the law, as adopted yesterday on the Committee, we will not support the amendments of the SD Group, which deletes the second paragraph of Article 1 and the last paragraph of Article 8, because we had a discussion yesterday and we both adopted a second suggestion on the proposal of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Posedel has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We have indeed dedicated a lot of space to agriculture in the Parliamentary Group, and we will also devote a lot of space in the future, because we consider it not only a small economic sector, but a very important activity, both in terms of land regulation and protection, in terms of the large number of citizens and citizens involved and working and living in the countryside. That is why we have been closely following developments in this area since the beginning of what is happening in the area of amendments to the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. We know that there has been a lot of dissatisfaction, a lot of comments, and that it is necessary, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, to say that we are aware of the great importance and great mission that the Chamber of Farmers has done everything since its establishment and that we ourselves have not imagined that it is possible to provide voluntary membership overnight or by amending the law. We know that this area of agriculture is different from that of the economy, and that such an intervention in the amendment of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber would constitute a major step backwards, a great deal of damage for farmers, for agricultural organisations, for cooperatives, and therefore we have closely monitored what the Government is preparing. And here we were, not only disappointed, but I can say gravely charged by the former Minister, Mrs Lukačič, who has responded to some of our inquiries, the law is being prepared, the law is being concluded, the law is just before the introduction into the procedure, which has actually turned out to be a big lie or an untruth to be more beautiful, and that even when the new Minister of Agriculture arrived, his position was certainly correct and also his statement that they would change and submit this law. That is why in the Really timely group last summer, at the end of the summer, we tabled our change, where we only wanted to raise the threshold, not with a number that would be attracted to or shaken by the trees, but a number that is probably more real and closer to what today would be right to write instead of €167, surely the number should be large. We have also proposed this as an amendment, but it has not been accepted. Therefore, it is not true and it is malicious that the representatives of the coalition refer to this proposed law of the parliamentary group as delay, but vice versa. It was tabled in order, with good faith, to adopt this proposed amendment to the Law of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber in due course last year. The complications that have been on the table today and have proved to be that we have even published the elections under the old law in the afternoon, are probably already cancelled, that today we will be adopting a law that will govern the new one, but the complications that are characteristic of that hurry, which appears to be so clear that the coalition is guilty of this delay that the insistence and inability to conclude a consensus on the threshold or voluntary membership, which was also presented by the New Slovenia Group of Members, are the decisive and main reason why we accept so quickly at the extraordinary session following the reduced procedure, such as the amendments to the law on membership in the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy. I am sure that the 62 000 who will no longer be mandatory members, satisfied, but I am sure that all those who have a threshold or cadastral income of 168 euros ahead will still be dissatisfied, will still be under pressure, so it is only praise that for the time being, the threshold has increased, the misleading, the evidence is just how low the threshold has been set and that the figure is probably higher. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In the parliamentary group, we will adopt this law, and it is very wrong that every marriage is praised, if you do, better this law than none, because it is true that it is a little better than the previous one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry! Since 2004, the Slovenian National Party has been working for a voluntary membership in the assembly systems in general, i.e. a good 3 year or a bad 4 year period. The founder of the compulsory membership chamber shall be the State. In Slovenia, there are about 17 to 20 people who won't take my word for it. We also know that the functioning of individual chambers should be in the interest of a large majority of the members. In view of the fact that membership is compulsory, it is essentially in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party for compulsory associations. As evidence: the conditions for compulsory membership in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber are laid down in the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia in such a way that a number of 10 thousand natural persons who do not carry out such activities to a significant extent are covered by the Act on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. That's the information we got. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has introduced the law, which we are talking about today, after a reduced procedure. We also know that we are just before the elections are to be held in these bodies, so we need to adopt the amendment immediately. Regardless of the changes proposed by the Government in the draft law under consideration, we are and will remain in principle in the Slovenian National Party, and we have also been the proponents of this law, but of course it has not been adopted. And it would be very strange that we would now adopt a law that brings news. This is what I'm doing. I'm making a comparison. I'm cariculating. If it's not worth $2 million, let's make it a million. All right, let's give in and let's still have a mandatory membership, but we're going to increase that voluntary membership a little bit and give some people a chance to go as voluntary members. No! No! In the Slovenian National Party, we insist that there must be voluntary membership in all the assembly systems for a simple reason: whoever wants to be a member will join itself, whether it be craftsmanship, economic, agri-economic and other around 15 or 16 other chambers. And another statement I hear, as a Member, as well as as as the mayor, a number of comments went to a large chamber, czech, we were members, we had a mandatory membership. When they were counting the money, they went to you in the sky, but from these chambers, I'm not saying it's a farm-house, but from a few others I can tell you, we didn't have anything. If you want to, be a member of one of the congregations, for the chamber will be glad that you will be voluntarily involved in the membership and will do something about it. And these facts and reasons in the Slovenian National Party, which, I stress once again, has wanted to introduce voluntary membership into the entire assembly system since 2004, we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u156	Your Honors are here! If things weren't so serious, you'd probably make me laugh and cheer me up. Even though I know that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not allow me to discuss my discussions with the predecessors, I can only say that I am ashamed of anyone who today and here advocated the voluntary membership. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter where you come from, 14 days ago the National Assembly met with the proposal of the Lip Group of Ambassadors with voluntary membership as the only element of the institution we are talking about today. Today, speakers in front of me, some as a vision for the next 10 years, some as a basis for accepting the condition, and some as a mere ignorance, speak of voluntary membership as an element for the successful functioning of the Chamber. Shame on you! I'd like to stop in connection with the law that is before us today. The Minister, as a bill-maker, does not, of course, seek voluntary membership. By this, it is our assessment, according to the assessment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa, is still or does not want to understand the essence and content of the existence of the Chambers. If also in the eyes of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were to pursue the objective for which it was established, which means, on the one hand, that it is a service for members, and on the other hand that it is an indicator of representativeness for the government, then it is of course in the interest of everyone in this country that we have voluntary membership. Why? This is because in the existing system, regardless of the threshold which determines the area of land that someone in the lease, owns or is only entitled to use, means the silence of an institution which is today and here called the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. I am sure that, on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, today's Chamber of Agriculture and Economy is a purely administrative and technical apparatus that cares for nothing but how to build a new house, how to get better, new wages, and how, in the framework of this organisation, which counts for a huge number of people, to enforce the lobbyist interests or interests of certain political parties. I am also sure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not introduced us to the real changes or aspirations it is seeking in the context of the novel. I am sure that this is only about how the elections will take place and who will sit in the future bodies of the Chamber. It's nothing else. Therefore, any speech about the fact that the Leipzig Group has stalled with its proposal for a law on the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, namely those who did indeed allow voluntary membership, but who, the vast majority of Members, rejected it, only 9 Members agreed with the voluntary membership of this Assembly. Therefore, I am confident that you are trying to pursue a single objective within the framework of the bodies of the Agricultural and Forestry Chamber, which is an egotistical, political goal reflected in greed for its impact on agriculture and forestry, in the area of agriculture and forestry. In the Lip Group, we will oppose this farce. As we do not agree that in this way, those who are generally at a lower level of the social scale on material income and who try to do so in the form of this compulsory duty will be bound, whether by so-called membership fee or contribution, to make additional use of the fact that you are pursuing your individual interests, in all likelihood political or mere choral interests. In the Lipa Group we oppose any coercion in the form of compulsory membership. We believe in people, we believe that they are able to decide for themselves whether to enter any chamber or not. Let's respect, for God's sake, once again so many of our citizens and give them a voluntary choice! If the chamber works well, then the members will stay on. However, since the Chamber is working poorly, you are, of course, afraid that you will be abandoned in the framework of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber and thus destroy the existence of this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendments tabled. We have two amendments tabled by the SD Group to Articles 1 and 8. I am putting an amendment to Article 1 into the debate. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. In Article 1, we are talking in particular about which data will be collected in the future for any natural person who will be a mandatory member of the Chamber. This right of assembly has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which considers that we must be aware, however, of the personal data involved and that it is not necessary for it to have exactly all the personal data at its disposal if it is to charge a compulsory membership to a person. It is sufficient that he knows the information on cadastral income, which is the key one, which also speaks about whether someone is a mandatory member, whether he has an electoral right, and whether they then send him a ticket to pay the membership fee. And so far, the law has already allowed all this data to be collected. This proposal, of course, makes it possible for the Agriculture and Economy Chamber to obtain, for each natural person, a tax number, transaction invoice numbers, service addresses and data on their residence and employment status. Why so much information when, in fact, there is no justification in the explanation of the law, is that necessary or not? I think that from this selection I have read, it can be understood that it is necessary to have an additional address for service, so that each member will also be informed that it is necessary to pay, for example, a contribution to receive his own paper issued by the Chamber and other notifications, which refer mainly to the professional work carried out by the Chamber for its members. If there is such a great need to collect these data for all members, it seems to me that we should seriously consider that, in the event that someone does not want to pay, for example, membership fees, a chamber for that individual could try to obtain additional information, or from a tax office or other institution that actually has a comprehensive review of the individual’s property situation. I don't actually see any logic that to collect data from someone, you need to find out whether they are employed or unemployed, who is the employer, whether they are retired and so on. I reiterate that it is personal data which must be strictly controlled and accessible only when it is absolutely necessary by law for a particular right or obligation to be exercised. That is why we are also proposing an amendment to this amendment, which deletes the paragraph on the collection of data on natural persons: tax number, data on the resident status of the debtor, address for service, transaction accounts numbers for payment service providers, other data on the natural person, employee, unemployed, employer, pensioner. We estimate that indeed all this information about all the members of the Chamber does not need to be done. I reiterate that it would certainly be sufficient to find that after one year someone is not responding, not to pay this contribution that the Chamber needs for its operation, to try to obtain additional information for that individual, but not generally for all 110, 111 thousand members that would have been in force after this law has been implemented. Otherwise, there will be some 170, 180, 000 of those natural persons who will provide all their information on the property situation at the disposal and use of the staff in the Chamber. I think that this goes beyond the purpose of the Chamber, goes beyond the legal material that we accept today, and this amendment is one of the steps to prevent the wide collection of data to the Chamber as it has literally desired and written with the help of the Government. Although I may understand in the last period that the government wants and has a wide range of data it obtains in one way or another to produce and review phone calls and collects without knowledge and without court decisions all information about the individual. However, I think it is also clear to everyone that this is contrary to the legal order, and that we cannot possibly agree with the House in such a way as to gather all the data on the 180,000 members as they are today or in the future 110 000 if this law is adopted. That is why we believe that this amendment is yet to make sense, and I suggest you support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u160	Thank you very much. In our opinion, the draft law clearly sets out what is necessary, allowing for the collection and recovery of the constituency contribution. We are of the opinion that this dilemma that my predecessor raised is premeditated and does not really exist. That is why we will certainly oppose this amendment. I believe that this amendment is yet another attempt to "correct" under the slogan, and to improve the functioning of the Chamber, which we have witnessed in the future and which are not going in this context or have no real intention of actually doing something good and useful for the Chamber. The fact is that if all of the information that the amendment's proposal seeks to delete is not, then, on the question of collecting a constituency contribution and consequently an essential part of the financing of the chamber's activities, the financing of that part, which is not so much in the public interest, is not subject to the transfer of public tasks, but is in the interest of the members of the chamber. Therefore, it seems to me that this amendment could be classified as a set of amendments that are not in any way part of an attempt to improve the bill. On the contrary, the proposer, with this amendment, I believe, is trying to make the law invalid, to prevent doses and recovery of the chamber's contribution and, consequently, to prevent the smooth functioning of the chamber. On the side of this amendment, we could, after all, make a legal proposal that we have considered before this law. As a result, it brings us into the time crisis and the problems we have with it. Once again, I would like to stress what the Minister has specifically pointed out in the opening explanation of the law, namely that the Government has passed the law on 20 December and that the result of the legislative proposals tabled on the subject of a chamber which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, was completely inadequate and inappropriate. We also face the time pressure that we have fallen into the polls of the Agricultural Chamber and that this is why there are problems. This amendment is only another contribution to the creation of such and similar problems and complications in the future functioning of the Chamber, and cannot be supported under any circumstances. We must strive to adopt a law that will be operational. I believe both the applicants and the representatives of the legal services of the Chamber that without such information, without access to such data, it is impossible to obtain a comprehensive and full contribution from the chamber. We therefore consider that this provision should remain in Article 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Saivitz, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We've heard of the tardiness culprits. I have to say so little for a joke, little really, that the biggest culprit for this delay is Mr Minister, for a simple reason, because he was not at this place where he is today, two years ago, three years ago. If he were in this place at the beginning of his term, we'd probably be talking differently than we are now. As far as the first amendment is concerned, I have a problem here that data collection is just not on my mind and it's not going to work. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is not part of the big brother or the police control system. Who knows how the chamber works because the chamber doesn't pay anyone anything. It pays subsidies and everything that belongs to farmers exclusively to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agency. That's why I understand that all the information listed here is that the agency has it. If they want to pay you, then they need to be given a tax number, give them a transaction account, check if you are a resident, the employment status is already questionable and so on. Of course, with all this information from the beginning until there is nothing wrong, there is a room, but I just don’t think it’s necessary. And if I refer to the debate of my predecessor, including the mayor of the municipality, we pay a lot of people a lot of aid, rent subsidies, kindergartens, social assistance, and something else, and of course we don't have the idea that for those who will become non-payers, they will collect data on tax numbers, on transaction accounts and similar nonsense. It is well known in this country that if someone is a payer, then, within legal and legal options, you have the right to obtain numbers and data that enable you to recover. That is why I think that an amendment has been tabled, which in no way delays the adoption of today's law, which I will support, in place at least as a reflection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u163	Mr. Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I took the floor in this amendment when my colleague, Mr Sušnik, explained how the law was being adopted in this process. Everything he said was not true. Not one, not the other. I'll try to simplify the matter, but in the personal view of this amendment. Colleague Weber is probably right or a parliamentary group when it wants to achieve that they do not simultaneously use EMHOs and the tax number for obtaining the data required by the Chamber. The shame is in the next one, and we heard that yesterday. A colleague who explained the matter to us is sitting up there. For natural persons, the Chamber shall obtain data on the basis of a single home number and for legal persons on the basis of a tax number. And it may be awkwardly recorded in the law for both information together, that the chamber collects data on the basis of a single parental and tax number, which may mean that it collects data for natural persons on the basis of one and the other and for legal persons on the basis of one and the other. Perhaps, in my humble knowledge of the rules, if it were separately stated that a single national and legal person is collected for physical purposes on the basis of tax, then even colleagues from SD would not have the basis to submit this amendment and the matter would probably be better and more solidly resolved. I personally don't have a problem hiding any data, and it doesn't bother me either. From a legal point of view, however, colleagues are probably right. This will probably not be accepted because this is the way it is in this vote and it will be as it will be. But it's not really what you say it is, I don't know what it is, stalling.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Chiefly, my colleague Juban has already explained to me what this is all about. Certainly the chamber doesn't collect data just like that and just like that. And it really isn't enough that it's just KD or that information. In addition to natural persons, legal persons are present in the Chamber. Natural persons have cadastral income and on this basis you also need EMŠO or receive such information from the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. However, legal persons are taxed on the basis of profits. However, they are legal persons who also have property and also create from the subject of activities or profits. They may, however, tax or collect a contribution only on the basis of one or the other. If it's not a double, they have to have both. Therefore, it seems to us that the law governs this area properly and in Novi Slovenija we will not support the SD Group's amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have already said in my presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group about what colleague Uhanov said and I think that this was on the Committee yesterday, by both the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and the Ministry, that we have natural persons and that if we want to get to the list of members and their cadastral income, we need to have an EMŠO. And like colleague Uhanova said, the second part is we have z.o.o.-je, d.o.o.-je and d.d.-je, which are also mandatory members. In doing so, we find that their contribution is based on profits as well as cadastral income. However, for the cadastral income, it is necessary to have a tax number for the re-EMŠO or the registered home number and profit. Last but not least, we also have the last paragraph in this article, the ninth paragraph is that the Chamber must act in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure with data which is tax confidentiality. I think that this is also one confirmation that this is not, as some have said, what data is used on average, but if the chamber wants to do that function, it has to have that data. That is why we will not support this amendment to Article 1 in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Well, look, colleagues, I've been trying to make it very clear that this is actually a warning from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which has written very correctly that already after the current law the Chamber has the opportunity to collect all the data it needs in order to form membership or obtain information on cadastral income. What she's gonna be able to pick up right now, look. It will receive information on all exemptions, facilitations, recognitions in accordance with the rules governing income and on parcels and cadastral income of agricultural land and forests actually used by natural persons from the data of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. So an identical database, such as the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, will be established for 180,000 natural persons also in the Chamber. In the case of legal persons engaged in agricultural, forestry or fishing activities, the mother number, the tax number, the seat, the pay and depreciation data, and natural persons, the tax number, the home number, the personal name and the address. We leave these two paragraphs in force, do not interfere with this text, delete the third paragraph in this Article, which deals with this, about natural persons, again, the tax number, the data on the resident status of the debtor, the address for the service of the number, the transaction accounts, payment service providers, employees, the unemployed and so on. We believe that if the agricultural chamber already needs this data, then this data is only necessary for those who do not pay the fee, or we come from the starting point together with the proposaler, that obviously none of the mandatory members want to pay the contribution. If this is the starting point, then we must immediately ask ourselves why we are adopting such a law and let us change this organisation of the chamber to actually prescribe, as we have proposed, after two, three years we will move from mandatory to voluntary membership. Clearly, though, it is the basis of the proposal that no one wants to pay for this congregational contribution. But I think it's still unfair, because I'm sure a lot of people want to work in the study and want to pay for this contribution. The one who doesn't want to do it, I don't mind if we also make it legal for the chamber to get this information. But I'm against collecting data, just anyone that the House wants, about all the members. This is in fact not explained, nor is it justified in this bill, nor in the text of articles, nor in the explanation. But it's just a desire for a line of least resistance to get to all the data. I really don't know why we should have data right now, all about each individual, and why not just when it turns out that someone doesn't want to pay after one year or after two years, like membership fees. We believe that, if nothing else, at least these natural persons need to accept this reduction in data collection and thus somehow encourage further thinking to further select data collection due to membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u171	I'm opening the application circuit. We are talking about the amendment to Article 1. Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to explain once again that the dilemma here is premeditated. It is sufficient that the Agricultural Chamber of Slovenia has the right to access those data that enable it to perform its functions. The basic function is to find out who is the one who is obliged to pay the membership fee. Of course, those who are above censorship are the limits of cadastral income. However, since some services have not yet unified the identification system and since GURS and another institution, I do not know now, I have forgotten, used EMHO, it is also necessary to have this information so that the Chamber can obtain information on mandatory members and then also issue relevant memberships. As a result, if someone does not pay the membership fee, it may also recover the debt from the data obtained. But do not talk about combing and inspecting all farmers in Slovenia and farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u173	Thank you very much. And Mr. Joseph Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Like your friend Staba says, I think it's some sort of assumption, some sort of insinuation. Last but not least, if we want the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber to be able to carry out its activities, we must also give it this option. I think that yesterday, on the Committee on Agriculture, we were told that the tax administration does not dosage, collect or execute unrealised membership fees. And if the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber wants to do this, we have to give it to her. And I am sure that they will use all the data necessary to obtain the eventual execution of unpaid membership fees and will then use this data, and probably not, for the rest, except for the cadastral income when they make up the membership directory. That's why I don't understand the insistence on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 1 and make an amendment to Article 8. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u176	Thank you very much. We will not support this amendment. We have a clear position in New Slovenia. If we support the law, it will also enter into force. This means that this year's elections are already under way. This amendment, proposed by the Group of Social Democrats, would indeed make a great deal of a mess, especially if we today adopt this amendment of the law. We will therefore support such an amendment proposed yesterday and an amendment to the amendment that says that the elections already announced will be annulled and that the Chamber will be prepared in accordance with this law, which, if adopted today, will also prepare new elections after this law. Also because the novel applies specifically to voters and who can be elected, not to the constituency and I don't know what, but only to elections, to voters, who has the right to be loved. As we say, we will not support this amendment in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u177	Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u178	Thank you. Look. Once again, I would like to point out that we are adopting this law at a time when the elections to the offices of the Chamber have already been called. I would like to point out that it is unacceptable to interfere with the electoral process when it is already under way. Whether it should be carried out from the beginning to the end and then concluded in this way and a new law should be followed by a new procedure. If today's law is adopted with such content as it is written down, then there will certainly be legal disputes, especially those that will be deprived of the different way of elections as are currently in force under the current law and are declared. And each dispute means that the authorities elected under this Act will not be able to carry out their tasks, which means that the Chamber will in fact be unable to carry out its tasks. As a result, we will indeed arrive at the moment when we realize that the chamber is not even its own purpose, and even less so to agriculture, because it will have no organs that can function normally. And to prevent the situation as it may be, because the law has been tabled and we will adopt it at a time when the electoral procedures are already under way, we propose that this paragraph be deleted. And we also propose not to support the law, for a simple reason that these elections should be conducted legitimately to the end. When these elections are held, we begin with a new law, with new electoral procedures. At that time, I also propose, if such a wish is made by the coalition, that you also provide money in the state budget for the re-trial procedure so that this does not burden the Chamber. I warn, however, that there will probably be very difficult legal complications if we run elections under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Saivitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't expect any major legal complications. I think we also agreed yesterday that it would be a good marriage, so I personally do not support this amendment. I think that such a solution, the wolf sitt and goat whole, was reached yesterday after the interruptions and debates on the committee. That is why I think it is right to adopt this law regardless of history, to look forward and prepare for the spring seed that is at the door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, nice to meet you! I will not support the amendment of our colleagues from social democracy to Article 8. If I translate it into a free language, it means, in fact, that the elections to the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber should be conducted according to the old law. I ask who is the highest legislative authority in this country. My answer is the National Assembly. And also the management of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber knew, because it also participated in the preparation of the government bill that we are going to adopt today, and the rush was really out of place. I'm happy, I can say, with a complementary bill. I think yesterday, too, there was a high-quality debate on the working body, and it brought some quality supplements. Last but not least, this year's elections will be held in the bodies of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, when we are quite truly already in the European Union and have some experience, quite good already, and I think it is important to stress this also because it is our own Slovenian agricultural policy within the framework of the European Union's common agricultural policy. I can say that this ministry and this coalition have a special service for agriculture. Last but not least, if I start with money, the budget for this segment in 2008 and 2009 spends about 78% more money than, for example, in the year when we had our last elections or when we joined the European Union, it is said in 2004. I welcome the text of the law, which I will also be pleased to support today. And one more thing. In my office, over the past three years, there have been a lot of farmers who have come to complain - as you know, I come from Prekmurje, where agricultural production is extremely dispersed. It is said to be extremely small farmers and the regional unit of the Murska Sobota Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber still has about 25,000 members today. As far as membership is concerned, it is the strongest and I am pleased to answer to my fellow citizens who have come to my office 'to accept' why they have to pay for a choral contribution, but they have no use for it. Today’s law will reduce the number of these members if, of course, they do not decide to pay for the assembly contribution by about 10,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u183	Mr. Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Social Democrats will effectively and practically destroy, if adopted, the whole purpose of the law, which in the transitional decisions practically resolves the dilemma associated with the late adoption of this law or the period in which we are in the time of adoption of the law. This is the period already mentioned, the period of the elections to the world and to the bodies of the Chamber. The rationalisation brought by the law, which is the reduction of representatives of natural persons in the world to 43 and, ultimately, the reduction of representatives of legal persons from 26 to 13, would be eliminated by the adoption of this amendment. This rationalisation would be eliminated and the proportionality of elected representatives in the world would be undermined. I believe that, after a discussion in which both representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Forestry Chamber participated yesterday, we adopted a solution at a meeting of the Committee, which represents a satisfactory way of conducting elections after the adoption of the new law or after the adoption of the amendment of the law. If the procedures were to take place, as stated in the law, if the statutes were to be harmonised in the thirties, which is enshrined in the law and which is the obligation of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, then the elections would be after the new law in June, which does not constitute a significant delay. However, it must also be said that the deletion of the last paragraph also raises questions as to the last paragraph, in which we stated that until the date of the term of office of the assembly bodies elected in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the mandate of the current assembly bodies should be extended. This also leads to some inequity if we do not allow for election under the new law. We are convinced that the solution recorded in the writing we are receiving today and adopted yesterday is a good compromise that has been adopted and that it will be possible to carry out the elections in accordance with the new law and the smooth functioning of the Chamber in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of reports. Mr. Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Chairman. First, Mr President, to you, I understand that you cannot follow the content of the individual articles we are talking about. But we have now heard three-quarters of the debate, which has nothing to do with the article, not with the amendment to this article. I see the problem of these transitional provisions in the following. One option is to keep the text the way it is before us, with one risk, which the amendment proposal points out. Only the last paragraph, my fellow Members, is the last paragraph, the sixth paragraph of the transitional provisions, which states that the call for elections shall be annulled by law. Personally, I'd say "risk" and "risk" because it doesn't matter if there's not a conflict that my colleagues are warning about. The second option is that, if an accident occurs, this amendment has been adopted for the elections to be annulled in some other way, as referred to by the electoral commission. The State Election Commission's suggestion that it is possible for the contested elections to be annulled automatically by the adoption of this law. The third option that the applicant is talking about, which I am not impressed with, is that the procedure that has begun must be followed by the call for elections and the old law and after the adoption of this law of the new election. This matter is a little difficult for me, and I am not impressed with this option, even though it may be legally the most correct one. I hope that it is possible to withdraw, or under this option, which is in the transitional provisions, by "risking" that someone can complain, or under this second option proposed by the amendment's proposer and by some other law, the procedures which are signed down are abolished. After one version of the day too early, none of us understood why it happened. Now we're seeing some disagreements over the coalition, but I don't think it was a good idea that you couldn't agree that some day later you'd call an election or something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u187	Mr. Joseph Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the material prepared by the mother working body, we have Article 8, paragraph 6, which states: "The mandate of the Chamber shall be extended to the term of office of the assembly bodies elected in accordance with the provisions of this Act." I will remind my colleagues when these amendments were tabled, in 1994, when the National Assembly extended the mandates to the Presidents of the Executive Councils and Assemblyes for almost half a year. Second. Yesterday, both the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and representatives of the Ministry sat down and together sought a solution to the complication mentioned by counterpart Geza Juban that the Chamber called for elections and were published in yesterday's Official Journal. Given that the time limit for the elections is only 29 May, and given that we have also adopted an amendment to Article 9, that the law does not enter into force until the 15th day following the publication of the Official Journal, but the next day, I do not think we are cancelling anything retroactive, such as the explanation in the Group. This is not some legal act, the call for elections, the legislative body of this country for the time being the National Assembly, nor the Administrative and Supervisory Committee of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, and I do not think that this will violate the principle of retroactivity or the validity of the cases in return. Because of this in our parliamentary group, we will not support this amendment alone, given that this seventh paragraph of this Article was also in line with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly yesterday at a meeting of the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Chase, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The proposal to change the composition of the membership of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is good and we support it. The law is right and it is possible to extend the mandate in the existing structure until the new elections. And it won't be the first time. And the shorter term is acceptable. The time limit for determining at which time the Statutes are to be adopted as soon as possible in order to fulfil the other tasks shall be acceptable. Gentlemen, it is not acceptable for us to call off the elections that have already been called off. And the logic that you're defending, it seems right for us to warn you that it's not the right one. The membership of the Chamber was determined on request mainly, I would say, by the current coalition or by the parties who make up the current coalition. We have always had doubts that membership is too large, too large, too low, so we support change. But to say that in the coalition you couldn't agree that the changes would have been made in time, so that the electoral deadlines could be over by May 27th, when the mandate ended with the old authorities, hunting, that's not true, so don't blame anyone other than yourself and the disagreement, the incompetence, the incompetence, I don't know anything, just myself, the ruling coalition, don't blame this opposition. You weren't able to do this in time. And now the last one. Look, I agree with you that the National Assembly is a legislator. Just let us think whether your logic that the legislator can do what he wants is still acceptable. And in this logic, we meet many times with your understanding of the legislator. If we conclude, we are not subject to the Constitution, nor is the President of the Government subject to the Constitution, nor are we subject to the rules of procedure. The decision of the authorities empowered to call for elections is not a legal act. Yeah, what is it? Of course it's a legal act. In the framework of the tasks they have. And that logic is bad. And we wanted to warn you of this logic with our amendment. The amendment must be adopted in an orderly manner. But if you think so, the National Assembly can do everything to correct the mistakes you have made before, you can. It's just not going to be the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u191	Thank you very much. One more time, Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Sir, if you understand me saying that the call for elections is not a legal act, I apologize. No, it's a legal act. But I think a higher legal act can annul it. As with other things, or a newer law, a higher court can annul an old, lower, and so on. I'm here assessing that this is the competence of the National Assembly to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u194	Look, that's all I'm telling you. Perhaps your logic is that the National Assembly can do anything. I was told, "We'll do it." You can do it. We can cancel, you can cancel. A new regulation is more valuable or applicable to the old one. It's all true. You can change the decision of the relevant body of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture which has called for an election. You can do anything. However, you do not have to respect Article 155 of the Constitution. It's okay. But let's be aware that this is not the country of law that you run in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! With regard to Article 1, I would like to allow for a more detailed explanation, which was also given on the home committee yesterday. In the introduction, I would like to say that we cannot agree with the amendment because the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber needs both. This is a single national home number, EMSO, as well as a tax number, due to the pooling of the various official records and the introduction of the recovery process. If I can explain a little bit more. The Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture shall, on the basis of the official information on the cadastral income of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which shall keep its records on the basis of a uniform national home number. At the same time, the pledges for a constituency contribution, or B contribution, are independent entrepreneurs individuals, who are subject to data from the Business Register of Slovenia. However, the latter is kept on the basis of a tax number. Since, in accordance with the law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, there is a need for members of the KGZS to meet the conditions for membership, both on the basis of a collective contribution and on the basis of the contribution B, it is therefore necessary to pool both those records of official data. This is only possible with the availability of both numbers, this is with the EMHO and also with the tax number. I would also like to add an explanation directly related to Article 1 to Article 7, which regulates the dosage, collection and recovery of the assembly contribution and which is substantively a direct link. In Article 26 of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber Act, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia was responsible for the assessment, collection and recovery of the compulsory assembly contribution, with the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Relations establishing a mutual relationship with the contract concluded. Article 7 of the Tax Service Act 2005 provided for the jurisdiction of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to collect contributions from the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture. The Tax Procedure Act laid down in Article 6, paragraph 2, explicitly that the provisions for tax collection shall apply mutatis mutandis to the collection of membership contributions to the Chambers, provided that such provision is made under the Act establishing them. It later happened with the amendment of the Tax Service Act that Article 7 was deleted and thus the jurisdiction of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to collect the contribution of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture. Article 26 of the Act on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia was also repealed by the adoption of the Tax Procedure Act, which no longer contains a provision expressly stipulating that its provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis to the collection of a constituency contribution. All of this resulted in a legal void, both as regards the dosage and collection of the Congregational Contribution and the recovery of the Congregational Contribution. Thus, at present, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber shall give and collect a chamber contribution on the basis of the transitional and final provisions of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber Act, whereas the collection of the chamber contribution shall not have the appropriate basis and shall now be governed by Article 7. Pursuant to Article 5 of the Tax Service Act, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for collecting taxes and other compulsory duties, which are the revenue of the State budget, the Community budget and the budgets of the self-government local communities, while the Chamber's contribution is the income of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia. As a result of this fact, the recovery of the unpaid fee does not, in our opinion, come under Article 289. of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which provides for the jurisdiction of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for administrative enforcement of monetary obligations. As a result of all these facts, including clarifications under paragraphs 1 and 7, we consider that the only correct solution is to establish, through the amendment of the Law on the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, the competence of the chamber of assessment, collection and collection, as well as the recovery of the assembly contribution, and to give them every opportunity to do so. With regard to the amendment to Article 8, I would like to say that it has not been clear in the past period on what basis the Chamber will be able to start electoral work. It was therefore necessary to add the amendments to Article 8 yesterday to harmonise the electoral process by aligning the chamber within 30 days with the statute law, by holding the elections no later than 4 months and by extending the mandate to the authorities of the Chamber. An amendment has also been added to repeal the electoral procedures so far. I would like to say that this article has been unanimously adopted and has been professionally aligned with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We believe that changes to the law require elections to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the amended law and that these changes will not make the situation of legal and natural persons worse. Only the number of mandatory members, of natural persons, will change, and they can eventually become voluntary members of the Chamber if they so wish. We also believe that, should this amendment be deleted, the amendments relating to the statutes of the Chamber should also be deleted from the elections to the Council of the Chamber within 4 months at the latest, as well as from the indents relating to the extension of the mandate of the Chamber. In view of what has been said, the applicant does not support the amendments to Articles 1 and 8. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I'm opening another circle. Mr. Miran Potch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Just a question, Minister. Mr. Minister, why didn't you prepare a law in the government in time to resolve these issues? Why did you allow the law to be proposed in another context and reject it, but not amendment? The law proposed could be amended and found new content. You caused this condition yourself. And I think it's right to warn you that you're doing wrong and illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Sušnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u200	I would like to point out once again the dilemma regarding the time when the law was given into procedure. Once again, I would like to remind you that the law has been passed 20. I think that in December, that we are today in March and that this is due to attempts to stall, which are the result of the investments of some strange quasi-legal proposals that have no intention of correcting anything but, above all, to complicate and delay. These are simple facts. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] through which you simply cannot and cannot ignore them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u202	I have to answer the obvious that we didn't make a deal in time in the coalition. In the coalition, we agreed on it in time, and we also agreed on it. And not only with the government and with each other, but also with the union, with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Everything was coordinated and also filed in a timely manner. In half an hour, it is not just the case that we were overrun by the opposition Member or Government in half an hour. And according to the procedure, the law that was previously introduced must first be dealt with. There is no authority here for the chairman of the committee as it is distributed, as one journalist writes today, to decide when I will put a law on the agenda. This shall be decided by the College of the National Assembly. In the coalition we then saw the solution to deal with this law at an extraordinary session and took this opportunity. We collected signatures last week. Therefore, I must criticise that it was incomprehensible for me that, at the same time, the Management Board of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber decided to call the elections on Tuesday. We could wait a while, at least at the conclusion of the College or today, even if the election was called 17 days later four years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u203	Thank you. I'm opening another sign-up circle. Mr. Janko Weber. No, you don't have time. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Just a word about the quasi-laws. Only laws are dealt with in this House. I am sorry if the government has failed to follow the trends and needs expressed by farmers on time and has just come before the government. If the government were to file a law on KGZS in the procedure three years ago, believe me, no law could beat him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Saivitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The transfer of some coalition Members is simply too far away. If you'd like to know, you weren't even in line yesterday morning. And not at the board meeting itself. And so now there's something to say that the opposition is guilty of. Say names and surnames, and then look at the magnetogram. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr. Pukšič would like a word. [[...]] Please, if you'll just hang up, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u207	Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u208	If we look at the committee meeting where the Zares Group introduced the law, then we have asked you that the law is in principle right to just table amendments and a number instead of 350 or 325 euros, put on what you proposed today, and four or five months ago we would have everything resolved. But since you were more papal than the pope, you achieved coordination and we did you for the good of farmers, not because of politics, we also support, we all achieved together only yesterday on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Peca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. Although I have clearly misjudged that the Member and the two Members from the group of unrelated Members will no longer advertise in relation to this point from the basic point of view. We estimate that the whole story, hand to heart, is a little funny. But just a little while ago, one of the ruling Members, after my assessment, completely unjustifiably stressed the criticism of the opposition, as the first-signed Member of Parliament to me, in relation to the previous law. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and certain other legal provisions allow a Member, a parliamentary group, to participate actively in the legislative process. This means, of course, that they have the right to make individual changes to the law, to supplement the law or to make new laws at all. From this point of view, I regret that the ruling Members do not know this right of Members and that the assessment of their work follows only the proposals put forward in the parliamentary procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here. I took this opportunity and gave my vision of the work of the assembly system also in the area of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Personally, I am sure that people within our country are wise enough to be able to decide for themselves whether or not they will be members of any of the Chambers in the Republic of Slovenia. The decision must be solely theirs. The decision must not be linked to individual party interests in relation to the pursuit of the interests of the lobbies that are behind them or to certain party material interests. Of course, from this title we find it unacceptable to accept any criticism of me as the author of the "quasi" law, because we allow people to make a decision. According to the logic of a fellow Sušnik who claims that voluntary membership is a "quasi" system, of course, it means that any decision we give to individuals in our country is a "quasi" right. This, of course, also leads to the belief of my colleague Sušnik that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is also a "quazi" document. This is something that we do not agree and oppose in the context of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We believe in citizens and citizens. Those whom, because of your conviction, you have identified as mandatory members within an administrative technical institution named in today's case the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. And it is sad, ladies and gentlemen, because in the framework of the ruling parties and not least because of the bad connection with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you are criticising your pace of developments in the legislative process or parliamentary practice. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not arrive at the right time to plan with the amendment of the law. To say whether it was half an hour or thirty minutes before the law was passed is, of course, completely irrelevant. Just as it is completely irrelevant that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or an individual ruling Member attempt to read out the application of the right given by law to a Member of the National Assembly. And that's where we run into another moment. At a point where, of course, the individual activity of an individual Member is assessed. When the right is defined as "quasi" a Member's activity in terms of investing and writing individual laws. But if we do this further, because I believe you are very interested in the current audience during today's meeting of the National Assembly, we will, of course, come to the question very soon and probably also to the answer about the "quasi" Members. But I'll leave this part to you, of course. However, I would like to point out that I think it makes sense for you to realize that, despite today's debate, where you are still coming from the fact that alpha and omega progress within our country is a mandatory membership, that the National Assembly will most likely be, I apologize, not this national assembly, but that the National Assembly has met very quickly with amendments to the Agricultural Forestry Chamber Act. Even if we look at the events of the year before in this house, the same story took place in connection with the Law on the Chamber of Commerce, where you also opposed the previous proposal for voluntary membership in that Chamber. Unfortunately, you have, or I apologize, at the outset, objected to the fact that the voluntary membership system would destroy the existence and content of the Chamber of Commerce. Then, six months or a year later, it turned out that the Chamber of Commerce had a new impetus, a new elite in the form of voluntary membership. And if anyone wants progress within the framework of the National Assembly in the framework of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, it is undoubtedly us who are seeking voluntary membership, because in fact voluntary membership, for which I personally assess that there is no quasi membership, would allow the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber to start acting marketably. This means that it would satisfy the interests of its members, whom it does not now pursue, to provide for them those services and tasks that are written on the skin and, above all, at the request of their members. On the other hand, this same chamber, which, according to your assessment of the quasi-voluntary membership system, would also be that element within our country towards the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and would represent the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and thus have a clear position. As far as my words were now unclear, I inform you that I still have 7 minutes and 40 seconds around the quasi-law proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I note that we have concluded the debate on the amendments to Articles 1 and 8. As long as this debate has indeed been about these amendments, it is up to you to decide in the end. I followed that. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. It's a day's work. Excuse me? Yes, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the proposers, I propose that the discussion on item 3 of the agenda be postponed to one of the following meetings. The reasons for the postponement of the debate arose after the application for inclusion in the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. This is because it is a very different view of the applicants, including legal professions, trade unions, after all, policies to the content considered, which is the subject of this authentic interpretation. We therefore believe that it would make sense not to hold a debate at this meeting. The postponement of the debate would provide additional time to seek a more appropriate solution to the deep-rooted problem already in the mandates of the previous governments. In the coalition, we have assessed that postponement is the most appropriate solution, and we also hope that the proposal will receive sufficient support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The proposal is in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure and therefore the representatives of the groups of Members may also give their views on this proposal, which they shall have at their disposal for a period of 3 minutes, in accordance with Rule 64, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure, as well as the proposer. Would anyone like a word on behalf of the MPs? I'm opening an application procedure in the first and only round. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group. Please have three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I don't need them. The Group of Members will support this procedural proposal. I myself was present on the Committee yesterday, and I also note that there were in fact so many different views on this and so many problems that could possibly also be demonstrated by this decision, so that the Group will support the proposal to consider the item at one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u216	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Given that we have already thought in the Group of Members about obstructing this item of the agenda, it is clear, then, that the proposal put forward by Mr Jože Tanko will be supported. This is because of the fact that, of course, the laws must not be circumvented. In fact, it has become quite the custom that if something goes wrong, if money is running out, if there is a lack of joy or will, the law changes, or if another correction is made to avoid doing what needs to be done. I hope, of course, that there will be another solution, like an authentic explanation. If it's courage and knowing what this is all about, then the law has to be changed, but not back. However, I think that with some good mediation, an agreement between the affected, this matter can be resolved much more elegantly and democratically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We support Mr Tank's proposal in the Group of Social Democrats. But we don't think it's the right explanation. In fact, it would be correct to explain that the proposal is not put on the agenda, but rather to postpone it to one of the following meetings because it is both substantive and legally incorrect. And that was the second case today in which we will decide things that cannot be decided. It is not possible to change the content of the article of the law by means of a compulsory interpretation, whether it is as good or bad and this has been clearly established in this procedure. That's why it's a good proposal. It has to be supported. I hope that the result will also be that there will be a real reason for change and that there will be a solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Lucky Friend on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our proposal on the working body was that this is not at all a suitable content for further discussion, because for the first time it is constitutionally disputed in at least five statements and we have proposed that the applicant withdraw such an interpretation - mandatory interpretation of Article 5a, because this has also been found by the Supreme Court and, of course, because it is unacceptable that new injustices are being caused to employees who expect them to get something out of what belongs to them. The epilogues are known and the courts are unlikely to be able to object or to court decisions and the state will have to pay, according to the minister, €42 million. Therefore, we consider that the way in which the authentic interpretation of Article 5a is adopted is not correct, is not admissible and is, in fact, constitutionally controversial and, of course, also in some way, a great shame to the Government that it has even proposed that way. This would also add to the mandatory interpretations of the existing law dictatorship and would result in legal practice. In this way, in essence, courts would also be allowed to judge in marital disharmony, which would probably later become the subject of a constitutional judgment. And in the Constitutional Court, this case would have dropped slightly and probably the Ministry should have paid off all those compensation claims filed in court more than two thousand. So we think it's definitely something, it's nothing. It is not what we wanted from other parliamentary groups, however, that this was required simply to withdraw, because it is unacceptable, illegal and, in fact, incompatible with the Constitution. I would like to ask if it is the power to look ourselves in the eye and actually say what was really said, Mr Grims, on the home work body, to tell you what the proposals for and against were and that you also say that the position did not defend this position at all because it had no arguments to defend it. In short, that's where you kept your mouth shut. All he spoke was a minister and a legal adviser to the Ministry, who spoke more or less nonsense. And I would ask if you could reconsider the proposal and withdraw this mandatory explanation from the procedure of admission to the National Assembly and thus avoid the shame that will be experienced as soon as possible, as this will end at the Constitutional Court. I would also like the proposal to be wise enough to complement this decision or this proposal with what I have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš, on behalf of the group of unrelated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u222	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will say, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - The government has confirmed an authentic explanation at its meeting - is a political disgrace. And what's going on today with the government coalition Minister, I believe you're being drawn to laughter, given that you witnessed yesterday the whole event on your mother's working body, but this proposal that came in today by the leader of the SDS delegation to just postpone the authentic explanation to one of the later meetings is a disaster. [[...]] The authentic interpretation does not, on a substantive basis, comply with the business arrangements to be included in an extraordinary meeting at all. You're moving to one of the later sessions. Tell me, what will your lawyers do, what will they do with an authentic explanation? Don't make fun of me, respectable colleague and colleague! Yesterday, on the working body of the mother, specifically on my part, an appeal was made to the Minister to withdraw the authentic explanation, because it is legally controversial because it changes the law, it is a matter of exceeding the business category of the authentic interpretation. With an authentic explanation, we change the content of the law backwards. We're interfering with the law, it's doing it with the amendment of the law, it's been made clear and said out loud. But the lawyer of the Ministry of Education made fun of the committee yesterday, even mocked the legal service, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Today comes Comrade Tanko with the proposal to move the authentic explanation to one of the later meetings. And my colleague Tanko even said that, after the extraordinary meeting, there were reasons, because, I don't know, who made further clarifications that it would make sense to bring this matter up a little further after the extraordinary meeting. But yesterday we had a meeting of our mother's working body, and you didn't know these reasons, Comrade Tanka, even though an extraordinary meeting was convened on February 29th. It's a disgraceful scheme, a shameful beginning of a government coalition. We will support the proposal because we say that the authentic explanation is unacceptable. And with an authentic explanation, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the government coalition, stands even above the judicial branch of power, because the authentic interpretation is directly contrary to the Supreme Court's decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u224	We will, of course, support this process proposal in the SDS Group. The reason for this is very different from what colleagues and colleagues have been saying. Indeed, the debate exposed the fact that one bad law had been corrected in the past by an intervention with someone else, obviously not a well-thought-out law and opened up room for different interpretations, but simply the basis that the actual problem of the Slovenian judicial branch of power is the trial. For in 2002 one court in this particular case, under exactly the same legislation, ruled that the disputed article, which is also addressed by this proposal, is indisputably valid, is a quote. Recently, however, under all the same conditions, the same court ruled that this article could not apply in any way and therefore could not constitute a basis for payment of wages. This, of course, raises a number of questions, truly many that go far beyond the opportunities that the National Assembly has before it today. Personally, I cannot help but recall the prophetic words of the legendary President of the German Constitutional Court and the great authority in international constitutional law, Mr Herzog, who said a few years ago what judicial policy is. At that time, they were just changing, and Kohla replaced Schröder as a longtime chancellor. And then this experienced president of the German Constitutional Court said what he understood from his practice as a judicial policy. He said, "Until yesterday, in some border cases, the courts have ruled in one direction, and from tomorrow, the same courts will be judged in the same laws in the opposite direction." Of course, he understood that the courts would follow human will. It is obvious to us that the courts are deciding not only on the basis of arguments but also on the basis of the judicial policy they set in relation to certain other situations in the country. I think that this debate would take us far too far, and for this reason, I myself have made a very personal commitment to postpone this debate today, so that all of this will be highlighted, to be examined in detail, and then eventually to make an appropriate decision, which would be legally totally indisputable. However, the fact that this judgment remains in court, this duality of criteria in the same case, is something that should be examined very, very carefully, even if a different solution is found at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please. On behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko, it will be an honor to support your proposal today without any doubt. Not Mr Grimes' proposal and explanation, but your proposal, which I understand, is in line with the goodwill and the smart decision of the Minister. For the lack of coalition MPs and Members on yesterday's home committee was eloquent. Talkative. Today, sobriety has occurred, and even the word, the wise word, and the realization that with such an auxiliary tool as violence against authentic interpretation, it is not possible to go beyond the law, the Constitution, and the courts. The solution is logical. I think it would be even wiser if we gave some more lessons for the future. This is said not only to withdraw from today’s session, but to withdraw the point in general or to seek in the meantime other solutions. They're being ordered. I think they're already at work, too, that this mystery, which is not small and which we all face, is not simple, saves itself in the future in a more constructive way, but certainly not in the wrong way that you thought it would work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u228	Thank you, Mr Vice President, for the opportunity. I'll be very brief. I would like to predict that the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal. As has already been announced by the proposaler, Mr Tank, we have agreed in the coalition. This problem, which has lasted for more than a decade, we want to solve in an exact way, without any shadow of doubt. We do not want to make a new mistake, and I think it is wise to take the time and take advantage of all the options that can help us to find this solution. Of course, I am pleased that, in fact, throughout the National Assembly, there is some willingness to actually solve this problem of teachers' wages once and for all and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to postpone item 3 of the agenda to one of the next assembly meetings. This is the subject of our decision or vote. Please check your voting devices. We're voting. I note that 67 Members and Members voted, all in favour, none in favour. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we shall continue to vote in favour, I propose that we be able to shorten from half an hour or so? [[...]] Half an hour. In half an hour. That's 17 hours, 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u230	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We continue the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue to break the 4th item of the agenda - the proposal for a decision on the recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The Republic of Slovenia recognises Kosovo as an independent and sovereign state. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the members of the groups, the application shall be pending. Mr Horvath, please, on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues, respected visitors! New Slovenia will support the decision on recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty. We estimate that the moment when the National Assembly adopts an act on Kosovo's sovereignty and independence is an optimal moment. Today, however, it may not be just a reason to celebrate in Pristina, with this act that we are adopting today, we also want to demonstrate the responsibility of the sovereign and independent state of Kosovo to act as a country in Europe must act, and that Kosovo and also Serbia should understand and practice their European perspective as soon as possible. Our eyes today are not only directed towards Pristina, but also to Serbia, with which we have developed strong economic relations, and we understand that Slovenia has invested a great deal in Serbia, as the true recognition of Slovenia to the country of Serbia. I am convinced that today an act on the recognition of Kosovo's independence and sovereignty in the National Assembly will be adopted. In this way, we have shown that we want the region we live in to actually stabilise as soon as possible, because the stable Western Balkans also means a stable European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today's vote will in fact show, colleagues and colleagues, that you don't care about the right, for the truth, for the legal standards, for international law, for the international agreements on which the democratic world is based, but that the only thing that matters to you is what the United States of America, Mr Bush, says in recent sighs, and, of course, also the European Union, which is largely subordinate to the United States of America or its own interests. You forget about historical ties, you forget about economic ties, you ignore everything, and I hope that you will get paid for it. It's not about the payment. It's a relationship to some reality. This is a relationship with a nation that has greatly helped the Slovenian people in those times when it was the worst. During World War II. You're forgetting that. Perhaps it is also under the "command" of some gentlemen from Argentina, because the national liberation fight must be somehow eliminated and some other quasi ideals must be raised. In the Slovenian National Party, we insist on these foundations of justice, despite the fact that you will also support this act in the Slovenian Parliament that those who have power, weapons and money have the right to break all international standards. We do not agree with this, we will not recognise this act and for us in the Slovenian National Party of Kosovo remains part of Serbia, or better said Kosovo and Metohija remain part of Serbia. You don't even know history. You do not even know what happened and when a large part of Serbia was connected to Kosovo later, where the unrest is now - in Kosovo Mitrovica, only after the conflict between Tito and Enver Hodja, when Tito opened the border with Albania, that a huge number of Albanians have collapsed the demographic order and have therefore had to join certain parts of Serbia in Kosovo by cancelling. You'll back it up. I wonder what will happen if there will be any marginal parts of Slovenia, I don't know if, say, the Italian minority in Trieste or in Cyprus will demand that the "free Republic of Litorale" be declared and that this will then join Italy. I don't know how you're gonna vote, because they're gonna have a legitimate right. You will confirm this possibility for Kosovo and you will bear the consequences. One more time. The Slovenian national party will vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u234	Thank you. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u235	Respectable present. I will not speak on the basis of a selective memory of how hospitable a nation or country was after World War II to Slovenia, forgetting the events of our country's independence, who was the aggressor. But I would like to introduce you, if you don't know, and that is why I will also read in explanation of my voice: "Moscow, March 5th. On Tuesday, Parliament in the South Ossetia region in Georgia, seeking secession, adopted a resolution calling on the European Union, Russia and the United Nations to recognise the independence of South Ossetia." And now the main one: "The precedent of Kosovo is a convincing argument." They were written in a resolution. So it is not only the decision of the National Assembly in relation to the relations of Slovenia - Serbia - Kosovo. It is, of course, that this act also has many other broader dimensions around the world. I will not support the proposed government proposal on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u237	Thank you. Look, the recognition of Kosovo as a single, internationally recognised community is nothing more than a recognition of the long-standing reality of Kosovo. The non-recognition of the actual state of affairs always holds the potential of conflict. Procrastination of this recognition would be a false signal that blackmail, violence is paid verbally or even actually in international relations. For this reason, not only the two parties covered there, but because of the signal to the entire international community, it is today that we are voting in favour of this proposed decision, for Kosovo's independence in the interest of peace in this area, in the interest of world peace. And let me remind you that in connection with this potential conflict, which can open up there, there have been very difficult words from Russia, which has even announced at some point in the attack on the European Union and the NATO Union. This is certainly a key argument for Slovenia to follow its own interests and interests of anyone else. We live on the edge of this space, our interest is to achieve stability, to recognise the actual state and thus to make Kosovo a independent state, and then to build good relations with all our neighbours, those who lie directly from us and with everyone else in this part of the space. This leads not only to responsibility for our own people, but also to the time when we are chairing the entire European Union and also to responsibility for the international community, in particular to the European Union as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u238	Thank you. I can still see the hands, so I am reopening my application to explain my voice on my own behalf. Please, everyone who wants to do this, please report that we're not going to report one at a time. Here you go, Mr. Jelinczych, apparently the last one.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Extortion in the international community pays off. This is what we see in the case of Croatia. And in the same interest of peace, the Slovenian Government seems to be giving in to Croats. I am certainly not saying that it is any blackmail on the part of Serbia, but it is by Kosovo, by the United States and by the European Union. The actual situation should then also be acknowledged in the case of Northern Cyprus, and we do not recognise it. We don't recognize the actual situation. And if we want good relations with all our neighbors, does that mean we have to kneel before every Croatian aggressive move? That's what's going on. And with this recognition of Kosovo, Slovenia will show once again that it is only capable of carrying out the masters' commands, that it does not have its own intelligence, except for some, that it does not have its own spirit, its own pride, but that it is simply an attachment to an institution called the European Union, and on behalf of which Slovenia must do everything, even against its own interests. No one remembers that the end of Spain and Greece, which have been a member of the European Union and perhaps a stronger member, does not come to their senses in order to recognise Kosovo. But that doesn't matter. We Slovenians have to be the kind of slave we run like we do "once with a carrot and once with a stick" by some big master. Cankar said we have a back, which is a whip used and desired. As long as you're used to the whip, once you get up and hit back. It's bad when you want it; it's pathology, and I see it with many of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u240	Thank you. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 4. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I congratulate the state of Kosovo and wish it a successful way to build a democratic, peaceful and economically successful sovereign and independent state! I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of agenda item 1 by addressing the preliminary agreement on the submission of an application for organisation 26. Winter University of Maribor 2013 and consent for co-financing from state funds. We are moving on to a decision on the preliminary agreement that you received as an integral part of the report from the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport on 5 March 2008. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, within the framework of the shorter procedure. We will vote on the two amendments, i.e. the yarn is lodged with Articles 1 and 2 to 8, both by the SD. We are moving on to a decision, first of all on the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 1, on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u241	Thank you. As regards the explanation of the amendment in the ordinary debate, we have pointed out that the Chamber already has sufficient legal basis in the law in force so that it can collect all the necessary information on the payers of the chamber contribution. See, even in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, which has been in force since 20 March 2004, it is stated that, irrespective of Article 37 of the Tax Procedure Act, data which are considered to be tax confidentiality under the Tax Procedure Act may also be transmitted to the Chambers for the purposes of the doses of the Chamber’s contribution. We claim that the amendment has been put in place. It is appropriate to reduce this competence of the Chamber, so that everything on average collects data on the payers of the Chamber’s contribution, and for those who, for example, will not pay, have a basis in the law already in force so that such data can be transmitted to them if they are requested. I do not think there is any such or physical obstacle, nor do I know any intellectual effort to apply for information for the person who has not paid the contribution and who wants to recover it for this purpose on the basis of the information they receive under the tax procedure law. So our amendment is justified and I think it is right to protect as much personal data processing as possible or to use personal data from any individual of unnecessary use by the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u242	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the amendment to Article 1 shall take place. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 8. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to the amended proposal for a second reading were not adopted, we are moving on to a third reading, to a decision on a proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. On behalf of the SD Group, Mr Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u243	Thank you, President, once again for your word. We have tried with two amendments, which could be tabled in relation to the open articles in the second reading, to slightly improve the text of the amendments and to supplement the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Once again, let me say that we support a solution that reduces the number of members to actually remain mandatory members indeed those who have larger land complexes and, of course, a larger cadastral income. This somehow improves the representative representation of farmers in the Chamber and, of course, also the possibility of electing individual chambers. Unfortunately, this law still does not allow for election to the bodies of the Chamber of Agricultural Enterprises. Unfortunately, this law opens new dilemmas as to whether the newly elected authorities will be elected in general legitimate terms, as we are adopting law at a time when electoral procedures are under way under the law currently in force. This is also the basic reason why we do not want to support such legal solutions that open up new dilemmas and which, after all, may cause even inaction, or at least for a certain period of time, the failure of the Chamber of Agriculture. I think that we should not allow this in Slovenia and that it is necessary to seek legal solutions that are free of dilemma and that allow elections in particular in a clear way and, of course, in a way that cannot then be challenged by various complaints. To avoid complaints that are expected from all those who will no longer be able to participate in these elections under the new law. Also in some other solutions, which we will certainly be able to track when amending the statutes of the Chamber, a number of questions are raised. Whether it makes sense to support this law and whether it is not better for the Agricultural Forestry Chamber to act in peace on the basis of the law now in force and to enforce these elections and then to approach, if such interest is, the adoption of a new law and, of course, to carry out new elections. Unfortunately, this has not been heard so far, so in the parliamentary group, of course, we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u244	Thank you. Since I can see the hands, I'm opening an application to explain my voice on my own behalf. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Chairman. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber is also an important institution in the Slovenian agricultural area. That is why I will be happy to support this marriage today. The story wasn't perfect. There have been problems from which we can learn something further. We are happy, however, that, as liberals, we have also reached this solution, that at least 60,000 people are allowed to voluntarily choose membership in this organization, yes or no. However, we have great responsibility for the following years to make sure that the next time we decide on this law, we can say that membership is voluntary and that the members want it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u246	Thank you. Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u247	Thank you. I can't support the law because at home our farmers demand that membership be voluntary. I'll support them in that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u248	Thank you. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. They were voted 51 to 10. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 5. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION FINANCING LEGISLATION, TO THE DECISION ON AMENDMENTS IN THE FIELD OF THE OTHER RESOURCES. At its 32nd meeting, the National Assembly held a debate on the amendments tabled, so we are continuing with a second reading of the bill's proposal by deciding on the amendments tabled on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23. Ten. 2007 In this regard, I inform you that, in accordance with the forecast of the second reading of the draft law, which was adopted on 24 October 2007, this item of the agenda is obstructed by the following groups: LDS, Zares and SNS. I'm asking you to calm down a little bit. Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 4. Procedural proposal. Excuse me? Oh, I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister. I am sorry to see you only when there is a vote on the proposals, but not to negotiate. I repeat our position, which we have stated at any time by the ruling coalition, that there has been partial pressure to vote on laws in the area of provincial law, so that we will not take part in this vote even this time. You do not believe that there is any other possibility of an agreement, at the same time you claim that you are in favour of an agreement, but no direct, clear, substantive readiness is available, but we do not want to make partial decisions and assume responsibilities for poorly prepared solutions. Let's say it again. I don't know how many times there will be a need, if there is any wish, to submit complete answers and suggestions to all the open questions so far, because only all the open questions and answers can be the basis for an interview. It is not the basis for each marriage to be interviewed individually - once on number, once on jurisdiction, once on funding - because it does not solve the complete concept and relations that are to be provided by the new provincial legislation. If you come up with something like this and give us a chance to evaluate it, we're ready to talk. Today, you show, I mean, today, in every concrete decision where you ask for a vote, you show that you do not need us and that you want to force solutions that are good for you. We just don't want any part of this. Once again, we advise that you do not decide to postpone your decision if you feel that any conversation is possible on your part. If it is not, then force yourself to continue making decisions; only coordinated solutions along this path cannot occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u251	The same content, only in a different time dimension. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we are forecasting obstruction for this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-05-SDZ4-Izredna-34.ana.u252	Thank you. We are moving on to decisions on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present; he voted in favour of 1 to 43. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 5 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 2. [[41 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 6. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 43 for them, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 14 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There were 48 Members and Members present, none of whom voted against 43. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 15 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 44 of whom voted against none. [[44 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, thus concluding a second reading of the bill. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 34th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Members and Members, I would like to ask you to remove all materials from the Chamber for the preparation of the Chamber for activities related to the Presidency of the European Union. Thank you for understanding and good night!
