ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 39th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mag. Janez Drobnic until 1300 hours, Dr. Marko Pavliha from 4 p.m. on and Matjaž Švagan. We are moving on to the continuation of the 19th item of the agenda - Proposal for a decree to call for an advisory referendum on the regions of Slovenia. The draft decree was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! The vast majority of parliamentary parties support the establishment of the provinces. Also, the vast majority of parliamentary parties have made it possible to adopt a constitutional change that provides a basis for the provinces, and on this basis the Government has prepared a whole package of provincial legislation, for the first time in history. In previous mandates, which led the game in the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats, there was no such proposal. Although there have been many debates, infertile debates, but there was no specificisation in the area of the provinces, despite the fact that we had a specific ministry. Although there was a decision by the former government that identified itself and supported the proposal to establish 14 provinces, nothing was done on this basis. When the law establishing the provinces was rejected in January, the question arose as to how to proceed. The regionalisation process is necessary if we are to use all the tools to halt the growing regional disparities. We have estimated that the consultative referendum is a possible step or the best possible step to move things forward, so that voters and voters can tell undecided politicians whether or not they agree with the proposal of the provinces, as prepared by the Government. The opposition had already spoken about the consultation referendum before, but it was all about words. We didn't get a written proposal on the table, and we couldn't make a decision on it either. We are preparing a proposal for 13 referendum areas, making Ljubljana a special referendum area. We have a proposal with the names of the provinces, the composition, so to speak, of the content, with the municipalities that make up these provinces. And where there was interest in local environments, landscape environments, there were also alternatives to issues. The referendum would take place on 22 June throughout the country at the same time as the electorate and the electorate would decide their own province, each province individually and in order to enable the results to be determined in the province and each congregation individually. The outcome of the referendum will be a guide for the Government's further work, for the further work of the National Assembly and will also be a commitment to Members for all further decisions. I estimate that it is a shame that there was not enough support for the amendment that we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party and Slovenian People's Party's Party's Group to listen to the interests of local political environments in the central Slovenian province and the civic initiative in Primorska. However, I appeal to you to support the decree, allowing us to ask voters and voters about the planned membership of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was considered by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as the parent working body. I give the floor to President Franz Jazbec to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Respectable. At its 19th urgent meeting on 20.5.2008 and the 19th urgent meeting on 21 and 22.5.2008, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the proposal for a resolution on the call for a consultative referendum on the areas of the provinces in Slovenia submitted by the Group of Members, signed by Jožet Horvat, Jakob Presecnik and Mag. Vasjo Klavora, who withdrew his signature on 6.5.2008. The members of the Committee were informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 22. 4. 2008, by additional opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 21.5.2008, opinion of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia on Local Self-Government and Regional Development of 8.5.2008. The representative further explained the proposal and the representative of the Government, Minister Ivan Žagar, reiterated the development function of establishing the provinces and the need for a faster solution to the differences in the level of development of individual areas in Slovenia. The preparation of the province's legislation was based on the prior coordination of the views of parliamentary parliamentary groups on the fundamental systemic solutions of the parliamentary groups and on the broad public debate, and should therefore facilitate the implementation of the regionalisation and legislative implementation project with a view to ensuring more coherent development of Slovenia as a whole. MEPs and Members argued in the debate on their views. On the basis of Article 171(1) below, the Committee voted on the amendments and additions tabled and on the amendments to the draft decree, subject to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly governing the second reading of the draft law. The Committee adopted the following amendments and amendments or amendments: Proposal to amend the proposal for an invitation to tender for a consultative referendum on the areas of the provinces in Slovenia by means of a motion for a resolution on the invitation to tender for a consultative referendum submitted by the Group of Members Jože Tanko, Jožef Horvat, Jakob Preseknik on 25.4.2008. The Committee did not adopt the following amendments and amendments: amendment to the proposal for a resolution on the invitation to consult the referendum tabled by the group of Members with the first-signed Mirano Potrč, Josef Školč and Dr. Mate Lahovnik of 20. 5. 2008; amendment to the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on the Regions in Slovenia by a motion for a resolution on the invitation to consult on the referendum tabled by the group of Members with the first-signed Miran Potrč, Jožef Školč, Dr. Matei Lahovnik of 19.5.2008; proposal to amend and supplement the referendum question to the Proposal for the Call for an Consultative Referendum in the Region of Slovenia with a proposal for a resolution of the consultative referendum table tabled by the group of Members with the first-signed Marino Potrč, Jožef Školč and Dr. Matei Lahovnik of 24.4.2008. At the meeting of the Committee, Miran Potč withdrew his signature. At the meeting of the Committee, the proposers, Ambassador Jože Tanko, Jakob Preseknik, withdrew the proposal to amend the proposal for an invitation to tender for an advisory referendum on the regions of Slovenia with a proposal for a decision to call for an advisory referendum of 20.5.2008. The Committee adopted the following amendments. For the first section: in the first section of the Decree on the call for an advisory referendum in the regions of the provinces of Slovenia, number 22 is replaced by number 23. To the second section of the amendment to the amendment in the Proposal to amend the proposal for an invitation to tender for a consultative referendum on the regions of Slovenia with a motion for a resolution on the invitation to a consultative referendum submitted by the Group of Members Jože Tanko, Jožef Horvat and Jakob Presečnik, the second item on page 3 setting out the referendum question under number 8 is added the second and third paragraphs, which read: "The voter shall vote by surrounding the word "for" or the word "again". The referendum outcome shall be determined for the entire referendum area." On the basis of Article 171(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all parts of the draft decree together, subject to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure governing the second examination of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion. Dr. Ivan Žagar, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Today, I will largely repeat what I have already said when I have discussed this issue, when I consider the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on the Areas and Names of the Regions in Slovenia and on the Regional Status of the Municipality of Ljubljana, and express my unequivocal support for this proposal. In fact, I would like to reiterate that the proposal to call for a consultative referendum and the proposal for a resolution on the referendum stem from the conviction and the facts of life that Slovenia urgently needs the provinces. This is certainly what many indicators of the development of Slovenia by statistical regions are talking about, and it is probably not a coincidence that these are the most unfavourable in areas where the biggest development problems are. Otherwise, the proposer of the consultative referendum, after an extensive discussion held in the past period, anticipated areas in the belief that the inhabitants of a given area connect the local community, in this case the provincial community, their awareness of the belongings of the environment and the community. The questions were designed to provide answers to this area of the proposed province and to provide appropriate answers for each congregation. And the people's answers will be a real indicator of what they want. From the very nature of the consultation referendum, however, the answer arises for the legislator to respect as much as possible the wishes of the population in the final decision. The proposed proposal stems from the belief that we need the provinces to bring added value to all residents and residents of Slovenia. The proposal makes it possible to bring the landscape project to a close and thus allow for faster and more equitable development of Slovenia, and also puts citizens and citizens of Slovenia in a comparable position, regardless of where they live, whether they live in Koroška or live in Goriška, Posoča, or live in central Slovenia. It is therefore important to stress that when we are working towards the establishment of the provinces, we are determined to accelerate the development of Slovenia, for more coherent regional and polycentric development. Preparations for the establishment of landscapes, i.e. drafting legislation, have been going on for quite some time, since the change of constitution. And then in the National Assembly, a consensus was reached that we needed the provinces. And a consensus was reached on important issues. At that time, a request was also made for legislation to be drawn up first to establish organisational, functional and financial decentralisation, followed by a proposal for reorganisation. And this legislation is fully prepared. Questions or answers to questions are well known, with a few minor dilemmas that can be concluded in further discussions. These laws do not impose new financial obligations or bring new administrations. A broad debate was also held on the law on which the proposal for a consultation referendum, i.e. the law establishing the provinces, was based, in this and previous mandates. The solutions proposed are therefore based on the documents prepared from the studies. And the profession has prepared options for regionalisation of Slovenia. It is the right and responsibility of the legislator to adopt regionalisation, with the participation of the municipalities, which will include the fundamental elements of the regional community with the right to local self-government. These elements are dual: the common interests and needs of the people in a given area and the ability to realize these interests and needs. Throughout the debate on the establishment of the landscapes, solutions have been drawn up that are now before you and are being reached with a broad consensus on them. In some parts, there are still dilemmas, and it is also reasonable to ask people at the consultation referendum on these dilemmas. It is also probably right for the people of the capital to ask for an opinion as to whether the Municipality of Ljubljana should also acquire the status of the province. The issue contains a political commitment that Ljubljana, as the country's capital, is regulated by law in a comprehensive status comparable to those of the capitals of European countries. For the proposed law, this status is not yet specifically regulated, which means that, at the time of the establishment of the provinces, the provincial status of Ljubljana will have to be regulated by law, the tasks to be performed by the municipal municipality or its authorities within the framework of the provincial status, the position of the municipal authorities, the elections, the deadline for taking over the tasks of the provincial status, the financing of the tasks of the Ljubljana Municipality, the transition of state officials to city law and other matters. Your Honor! I suggest you support the motion for a decision for a consultative referendum. I am sure that the answers to the referendum will be a good way to reach a final decision in the National Assembly, establishing the provinces, and we need you in Slovenia to develop them as soon as possible. They are most likely to be needed by areas with the greatest development needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u8	Good morning, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Good morning, distinguished ministers and representatives of the Ministry! Good morning, Slovenia! At least those of you who have stayed early enough already know that the ruling coalition is yours, and I must point out that, even with the generous and unequivocal support of DeSUS, who has argued through all of this that the referendum will not confirm, this evening has prepared everything necessary for the consultative referendum on the provinces, which will be held on 22 June. With this, respected citizens and citizens will try to tell you that you will decide something. In addition, I will tell you that we are monitoring Big Brother, creating a virtual reality in politics that will convince you that you are important and that you are involved in something important. However, in the opinion of our Group of Members, this is unfortunately not true. It's a farce, it's a virtual reality. For the fact is that citizens and citizens will not make decisions about anything other than whether or not you want to live in your own place and whether you want to live in your own country, which they have set up and drawn for you. The fact is that if we, Members and Members of the National Assembly were to do their job well, if we knew what our duties were and why we were paid, then we should find and seek solutions here - here, in politics and in Parliament - and, above all, it was the duty of the coalition to at least partially harmonise and find appropriate support in these 60 votes in order to form appropriate solutions. And the fact is that the coalition of people does not dare to ask everything and does not hope to ask directly whether they support the provinces and whether they support and support the number of provinces they support. No! No! This is what we will not ask them, but we will ask them in much more detail about what I have already said if they want to live in their own country. Questions are raised in such a way that they are incomprehensible; by allowing for free assessment and interpretation of the results. In this regard, let me also mention what the Legislative and Legal Service is already reminding us today when it says in its additional opinion that, in the fact that the law required by the majority for the adoption of a particular referendum issue does not regulate, the assessment of the referendum results and outcomes will be left to the interpretation of the National Assembly. It is clear, therefore, and today in the Group of Members, that the interpretation of the results and, of course, the legitimacy of the results will lead to additional conflicts, additional conflicts, and each will have its own perspective on what the results mean. And I assure you, also citizens and citizens, that we will be arguing about the results in this room and also in a wide Slovenia that will be heavily divided for a very long time. The conflict is already in place in this case, for certainly the consultative referendum is not a suitable way to ask people what we ask them and ask them at this referendum. The referendum comes from an expertly unconceived solution and, as I say, is totally inappropriate for a consultative referendum, because it is not possible to put questions correctly and unequivocally in a form where people can only answer with a "pro" or "against" which has also been identified and recognised by the proponents. And the fact is that, on the basis of these solutions, which serve more pre-election propaganda, the government or the state is pre-eminently paying for the campaign, that these solutions will not and will not be the basis for the preparation of imaginary provincial legislation and also of the landscape maps that will once have to be designed and for which it will undoubtedly need to gather 60 votes of support in this assembly - will bring this referendum to Slovenia and, in particular, more problems in politics, even more new questions that will open up, while the answers that you do not want will not. And if I say a little cynically, then the referendum is kind of set up to get the answer you want, and somewhere there will be such answers that 130% of the people who come to the referendum support some concrete province. It is sad that, according to our assessment of the coalition, Members and Members of Parliament will be re-reputed, once again the National Assembly will receive many, I will say, poor assessments, and it is obvious that the coalition wants to route and force a solution that we should then use in the future with a full deal and problems. And it does so in many areas. In addition, we will adopt, for example, at the last meeting also a health resolution, a strategy that is expected to pave the way for the next six years at Parliament's last meeting. This, I think, is totally unacceptable behavior, and we can - even though these are strong words, I am aware of this - say quite calmly on behalf of our parliamentary group: this is manipulation, this is blackmailing solutions at all costs, and, last but not least, this solves a project that has been completely misguided for quite some time. In doing so, it must also be said that, in its decisions in this regard, politics was taking place in the worst sense of the word. So many changes in opinions, so many dirty backstage political games, so many, I'll say, various lobbying, shopping and trading that we've seen in these last days and that's what we've been talking about in our parliamentary corridors, so many things that haven't been happening for a long time. And if a project, which the landscapes are, is based on such morally broken foundations as this one, then we have not given him any good and some positive travels to go on. Surely the project of establishing Slovenian provinces, unfortunately, has become a sad farce in the final act of our call this time, and I am convinced that it bears the responsibilities of the coalition in its entirety. However, I must say that what is of particular concern to our parliamentary group is the attitude and solutions you have drawn up regarding the central Slovenian province. On the one hand, the Municipality of Ljubljana, which is excluded, and then completely inappropriate large and interestingly uncoordinated or non-lifely Central Slovenian region, which ranges from Kamnik to Kostel on the one hand, bringing together a large number of citizens and citizens who will not be able to exercise their interests here. This seems to me to be the last point on the i that the existing coalition poses as some extremely poor traveler to the most vital part of Slovenia. And of course, even in this way it may be achieved, if I cynically say, what you are always stressing - this is a more even development of Slovenia; but this is in such a way that we will stop and disable those who are doing well at this point in time, so that others can catch up. This is not the way of development and what you promise. And, of course, because the minister earlier spoke about ensuring that there will be no additional employment or that there will be no higher costs. I think that this is simply not the truth, that there will be a new bureaucracy in these provinces, a whole species that goes into several hundred new officials, and that this is simply an organisational foreshadowation that Slovenia certainly does not need right now. As big as he is, he doesn't need as many as you plan. However, manipulation can, of course, produce the result that people want, and I hope that this story may turn on you as well. So many negative foundations, such as those embedded in this solution, cannot produce very good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u10	Thank you very much and very much. Sometimes when we take a new book into our hands, it's enough to polish it, look at the synopsis, and put it off disappointed. Perhaps it would be best for our parliamentary group today if we did not say anything, so some wish to hide themselves, to bow their heads away from shame, and to forget everything quickly. However, in the Group of Members, the view prevailed that we should only think by our own conscience, that each of our own views should defend itself, explain, and I only think that in a short period of time I should present what genetics was like and what were the circumstances in which the Group of Members adopted the position to act on its own conscience. First, let me say again what the coalition agreement on the provinces says. And I stress that there is no coalition commitment there to establish the provinces; it simply says that there is a possibility of being established. It says that if they were established, these provinces would be a huge burden for public finances. And it also says that that's why he's in no hurry with the provinces. Another circumstance that needs to be mentioned is the situation with regard to our positions, the DeSUS's position on the provinces. We've always estimated that the landscapes are necessary. We have always felt that it is necessary to reach a very broad consensus for these provinces or, if they do not agree, to oppose them. With such conviction, we have also voted in favour of amendments to the Constitution which allow for the establishment of the provinces. In the meantime, only here and there has there been some kind of regression about this position, but not within the Desus Group, as an individual has at times changed his mind. The next situation, which is important for our decision, is DeSUS's position on the referendum initiatives. When the opposition proposed a referendum in January, DeSUS was against the referendum. The entire coalition did the same. And we were very strongly supported by the President of the Government. There's been this kind of depression again in the middle, but that's what's going on. Some feel that we need to be flexible enough to adapt to new circumstances. But since circumstances are changing so quickly, we are not all sufficiently flexible; some are just staying in some more firm positions. In order to be clear, we are also against the proposal for a referendum proposed by part of the coalition parties in the DeSUS Group. And we're the only ones left with this posture, and the other one, they just changed the posture. In order to make it easier to understand why such a attitude should I say that we are talking about half a dozen laws and one withdrawn, that we are talking about a series of referendum proposals that change at the speed of light almost, day after night on a new day, and that in fact what is proposed is proposed without the support of the profession and even with the opposition of the profession. Now all that matters is power, political will and perhaps one vote of the majority. One voice will also be good enough for the majority of those who did not have these half a dozen laws in their hands, who do not know the titles of laws that they have not read, to understand them. There was only one night call enough for some, and the matter was clear. But some people don't think so fast and we need to get deeper, think more, think more, coordinate more, and we have problems because we can't follow those who are very fast. The situation at the time of the decision is, in the opinion of the parliamentary group, a "mixsum composition", according to Slovenia, a disorder. In this mess, we do not all find ourselves as well again, some will be able to swim in the waters, some others slightly worse, especially because the reasons for the decisions were not professional, but were different in nature. Even for our decision to vote on our own conscience, the reasons were not autonomous. The reasons came through the contents of the landscapes, the reasons came from the outside, the reasons came as infections, and this infection is called ultimatum. Every single one of them will have to know how to walk with these, and maybe he'll run somebody over. For us the following situation, which is important for our decisions, is important for us, for the media and for someone else, it is important to stress that there are no proposals from government parties - only the proposals of one part of government parties are on the table. It is important for us to say that there are no coalition proposals - only parts of the coalition agree with what we have on the table. And, of course, there are no proposals from coalition parliamentary groups. And in the DeSUS Group, we don't understand who, when they spend the night at the extinguishing and shivering candle, draws the lines across the Slovenian map without asking anyone anything and then putting it on the table "take it, or leave it". This is how we do not know how to act in the Group of Members, at least not a significant part of this group. When the candles bounce away when nothing else is seen, when all is sufficiently blurry, we will go to the referendum and there will be again, I guess, people who have not had one half a dozen laws in their hands who do not know the referendum proposals, even the last one left behind as the first one, do not know. And it will be necessary to explain again what the axis from north to south is and what stupidity can happen when you travel from north to south of Slovenia. For us and for the media, it must be said that the Minister is wrong when he thinks that the referendum decisions will bind us morally. Those who know the referendum is manipulation, no. And let us not let ourselves be blackmailed and set as hostages as a wall; if you continue to think with your head, you are immoral. And the minister is wrong when he's talking about how to get directions at the referendum. I don't know, maybe someone did! The referendum, however, is of a consultative nature, it will take place in the circumstances that we have called manipulation and in circumstances that are clearly more burdensome with the political moment of elections than with the substantive issues of the future fate of Slovenia's development. At least for some, it will be very interesting to monitor referendum discussions and to see where ambition can reach people. Either way, everyone will have to swim out of this mess on their own. Yesterday's or today's morning's vote clearly showed the extreme fragmentation of Slovenia, Parliament, Committees, Coalitions, even within individual coalition parties. And it turned out by this vote that God is really alone. There's only one god left to follow. And since we do not all believe in the parliamentary group in the same way, we have decided to vote each on our own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, ministers, representatives of the government! I am very pleased to say that today I can prove before you and in front of the whole public that the Slovenian National Party has a 100% right. Why? When considering constitutional changes concerning regionalisation, the Slovenian national party requested that the number of provinces become a constitutional category. This esteemed assembly has mocked this request, and the result of this rejection has been taking place for the last six months. And last night's meeting of the homework committee and yesterday's meeting and today's meeting, and everything that's going on, is due to the rejection of our proposal. Referendum decision-making in 13 constituencies, in areas of the future, yet unspecified regions in the Republic of Slovenia, will be very interesting. And since I know that there are still people in Slovenia who are interested in what we are doing in the National Assembly, I will start again with one proof of how unclear and incomplete the questions are. I'm going to make the next question concrete - don't let the Primors blame me or I chose Primorska. Are you in favour of the establishment of Goriška - in brackets - in accordance with Article 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia - [[North Sea Region]] which will cover the following areas: Ajdovščina, Bovec, Brdo, Cerkno, Idrija, Kanal, Kobarid, Miren, Kostanjevica, Nova Gorica, Renče, Vogrsko, Šempeter, Vrtojba, Tolmin, Vipava? First question. Second question. Are you in favour of the province that will include the following municipalities - Ajdovščina, Bovec, Brdo, Cerkno, Idrija, Canal, Kobarid and the same mentioned - called Goriška krajina? And the third question. Are you in favour of all these congregations called the North Sea Region? I'd say yes, I'm up for it, first, second and third. Now I don't understand, it explains that someone will be for everything, that it will be for Goriška, that it's called Goriška and that it's called Northern Primorska. Another time. 13 are similar questions. What will happen if in one of these constituencies - that is, one of the future imaginary provinces - the outcome of this consultation referendum is negative? What's gonna happen? Slovenian national party and probably also colleagues from SD, LDS and really we will say, "Look, you see, people disagree with this form of 13 landscapes, the referendum is unsuccessful!" Colleagues from the position will come for this stage and say, "You've seen, the vast majority support this system, the referendum is successful!" However, the legal and legal service says that there is no arbitration and has made it clear that any outcome will be, we will comment and take it and decide whether it is positive or negative, us Members and we will argue again. Who can tell me today who can tell us what will happen if one or the other constituency, the "versus" of the future province, against the investigative, consultative referendum? I don't know. And so on: the consultative referendum is non-binding. We will comment on the results in our own way. Finally, as the voters will decide at some point in this consultation referendum, we can be confident in the Slovenian National Party that this will not be the case, because the final law on the formation of the provinces will not be adopted again. Otherwise, the truth is somewhere else. From that point on, the Slovenian national party opposes regionalisation, you know that, and we publicly say that when you rejected our demand for the number of provinces that are supposed to be a constitutional category. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that Slovenia, with almost two million inhabitants, is one beautiful, beautiful region with 12 statistical regions and that it works beautifully. And that for several years a system of division into an administrative unit and a local community is an ideal system and that runs smoothly. The essence of all of this is hidden in the background, colleagues and colleagues, visitors and those who listen to us and are interested in you. At this point in time, at almost 30, if not many congregations are already fighting, I personally witnessed where the county seat will be. They're already fighting, and we don't have any provinces or legislation. A lot of people are clutching their hands under the hood, and they're already dreaming about how the sheriffs are going to be in this country. Many are already losing their hands on how to get to a very well-paid job in the administration, bureaucratizing new administrative units, where they will do bureaucratic work and enjoy the fine work ahead. Many already dream of destroying existing hospitals somewhere, shutting down and closing them down, and putting new ones, themselves, where they will make their own landscape and their own kindergarten. Many dream of closing up one higher or higher school where it is, and will build it with them because it will be more important. That's the truth. And all of this shows us - what about colleagues and colleagues? What's going on in the congregations. From 56 we came to 210 with the goal of atomisation or decentralisation, and the goal was to develop communities evenly. I would like to hear the one who will hope to declare to me here publicly and to all Slovenes that municipalities in Slovenia are developing evenly. Of course, one is very evenly upward and the other very evenly equal to poverty. The difference, you have to admit, whether you like it or not, is growing among the congregations. And that's what's gonna happen to the provinces. And what else will happen to the provinces? See, even if everyone at this referendum expresses their agreement, it means they will confirm their desire and desire to have 13 regions in Slovenia. But this guarantee that 13 regions will remain without anyone. This is not a constitutional category, but you know, if this is legal - if it is - all laws change; and they usually change by changing power. I don't care whether they're red or green or yellow. And the law will change. So people will express their will to have 13 regions, after changing power in 7 years or in 9 years, because it doesn't matter, we're going to come up with 3 new ones, or we're going to put 4 together. The proof of this is the fact of the work of the mother, when at the same time the day before yesterday we were given a table of decrees and a change of decree. Because of that change of decree, at the same time, we moved the meeting to yesterday. And what happened? Yesterday, however, the change that caused all this turmoil was withdrawn by those motioners. I mean, that's very, very funny, come on! And very unserious. But the saddest part is, as my party champion has already said, that Koroška will have no roads and connections with Slovenia, so no province will have a new factory, but they will have new sheriffs and new employees. You know, in the Slovenian National Party there are such, I have to say this, we will have a wonderful comedy of confusion, a Slovenian version. [[...]] All right and all right, but this one's gonna be a little expensive - 3 million. We prefer to visit Ljubljana City Theatre in the Slovenian National Party. And because we will not and we will not and we do not want to participate, the Slovenian National Party is obstructing this agenda point with this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u14	Your Honors are here! Words, words are in politics or words of politicians sometimes give the very expression of how little words are worth saying and that they actually count only actions. Obstruction sometimes depends, but sometimes it depends on who it's predicted against. For with obstruction, if made alone, the quorum of the present is, of course, reduced and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is looking for its power. However, let me point out the story or the view of the Lip Group of Ambassadors to the question which is now ahead of us and which has been ahead of us for almost 10 years and is very active before us for the last 6 months. According to our firm conviction, of course, the story is wrong. Sorry, misplaced. The fact is that the whole Slovenian policy did not find the right solution and divided Slovenia into a small number of provinces. The emphasis is "on some small, rounded number, geographical landscape". The proposer, on behalf of his colleague Tanko, said that the decision for us would be binding on the next National Assembly. At the same time, we know that we are talking today about the consultation referendum. Thus, the binding and consultative referendum are simply two completely opposite concepts. Each of us in the '90s knows what "consultative" means to him. Advisoryly - unfortunately, in Slovenian politics means nothing but reshaping or interpreting the referendum outcome differently. We have witnessed this many times, in my opinion, in all cases of the referendums so far. One policy option was to attribute or interpret the result of the consultation referendum on a purely individual basis, despite what this referendum resulted in. 13 provinces, the number, as followed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the ruling party, in my opinion or in the firm belief of the Lipa Group, represents an exclusive fragmentation. The fragmentation of our country, not only and only in a geographical sense, but above all what may be more important or at least equally important - fragmentation in the area of competence. What was the main argument, why do we want the provinces within our country? Due to the fact that the provinces are expected to receive new tasks, those tasks that have not been performed so far by the local community or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A larger number of landscapes will - a smaller number of tasks will be. Another time. What is also meant by the fragmentation of Slovenia into 13 provinces? Financial resources. Fewer provinces would have Slovenia, more financial resources would have fewer provinces. Thus, if there are 13 provinces, the whole small or treasury will be divided into 13 parts, meaning small financial resources and thus dependence on each government or current government. And the third time. What is the meaning of 13 provinces or the fragmentation of Slovenia? It means the collapse of responsibility. Once again, we will have 13 institutions where no one will be responsible for anything. People will still, including politicians, not all know when to turn to the local community office, the municipal quarter, the municipal council, the city council, the mayor's cabinet, the provincial council, the head of the provincial unit, the state administration, the municipal administration, parliament, the government, the state council. I have already said several times that Slovenia with cca on previous proposals, which were slobbering in the National Assembly. Two million people already have so many saints or representatives of the people in some organizational form that almost every family of its own has a representative at some level. And where has this led to so far? If we look at the story of local communities, since 1994, when the first elections were to the local community, we had several ten municipalities in Slovenia. The fragmentation of Slovenia or I apologize, the uneven development of Slovenia was present in 1994 and is still present today. Then, in 1995, 1996, 1997 and every year, we were told that we would have more fragmented municipalities, a smaller division of Slovenia on the basis of uneven development. If we look at statistics today, we see that our country's uneven development should still be present on the basis of the number of employees in each local community, on the basis of GDP, however. We see that the fragmentation of Slovenian territory in 210 municipalities did not in any way lead to the desired goal or to the one with which you are sneezing, and today you are proud of the advocates of the fragmentation of our country, that is, the establishment of thirteen provinces. What actually led to or what led 210 municipalities in the country - to the breakup of the political administration, that the political microwaves, who are today the largest advocates of a large number of provinces, have acquired mayoral functions, have settled within the various municipalities, which do not reach a thousand people - some, of course. And what would be the argument why Slovenia should have provinces? According to the Lip Group, there should be only one argument in the mindset of all of us, this is an added value; an added value felt by citizens and, of course, by citizens. However, if we look at the added value through financial resources, probably all of us, or at least some of us, who understand at least a little about the matter of local self-government at the first and second levels, of course, obtaining financial resources from the EU framework. Can we, if we have thirteen provinces in Slovenia, meet the conditions for obtaining EU funding from the provinces? The answer is no. We can't win! Slovenia could obtain such funds if our dearly beloved country were divided into two or three, which is the maximum number of provinces. Then we could talk about some new added value, something that's a success story. With 13 provinces, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the people, those who speak of added value in the area of financial resources, of course, are bluffing. He realizes that it will go from the same money as now, instead of going to one address, to another address. Instead, when it is decided by someone, a number of people, this money will be decided on a number of levels, with more administrations and even more political motivations. So, the added value in the case of 13 landscapes in terms of financial resources, ladies and gentlemen, hand to heart, is not! The arguments that I have listened to almost every month in the last six months, perhaps through a variety of encounters, probably in the context of the debates of the National Assembly, if anything comes at the moment, the provinces are attracted to the hair. I sincerely hope that in our country there is no longer enough naive people to buy such a story. How will the health system, once the provinces are here, improve how infrastructure, whether rail or road infrastructure, will suddenly improve?Oh, my God! It's not like that. The funding for the highway cross, we all know, is guaranteed, we are accredited, we will have to pay for how many years of that 3 billion euro. So to say that the moment we have an X landscape, there will be a "wau" growth of that landscape -- that's not the case. Someone in front of me said that the number of landscapes depends on every single government. Here. The authorities, especially those who are arrogant, force their decisions. He rapes and enforces his own right at all times. Personally, I don't know why the current government is trying to crush Slovenia, maybe because of the answer that it is trying to enforce its political right at this secondary level of local government. This kind of pursuit of goals is, of course, wrong. We've all found together, probably, each one of us quietly, that there will be no new roads, no new rail tracks with the provinces. That before the provinces come to life, we should, insofar as we are guided by the motive of wisdom, address - and this little better than that - the issue of clear financing, not only the transfer of funds, but new resources; we should address the issue of the content of tasks and in particular the question of what will be new to people, making their daily lives easier and the tasks they face. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as I said before, portrays this as a success story for 13 provinces. 13 referenda, each with its own referendum question. In almost half of these areas, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia offers an additional question to potential voters, those who will decide to visit this referendum, including the question of name, i.e. the question of form, not content. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia follows the form before the content. Is it a feature of wisdom that we ignore the content, that we ignore the fact that we still have this defined as a deficit? On the other hand, at least in the context of the referendum question for the area number 4 people will ask about the region of Goriška or the North Sea, and in so doing, within 30 days, as far as the electoral work takes place, will redirect the debate that would still be necessary, i.e. the issue of content, to the sole question of the name. The same will happen in the context of the referendum question for the Pomurska or Prekmursko-Prleška area, where the government will also give people an exclusive name in the dilemma or decision-making of people. The same Coastal-Kraška, versus, or otherwise, the South Seas. And Eastern Styria or Ptujsko-Ormoška and 12th referendum area for the question of Central Styria - Mariborska. Nothing else will be left to decide despite the fact that the referendum is supposed to represent the most democratic form of decision-making, namely: Are you in favour of having 13 provinces, or are you not in favour? But since the referendum question has been posed very skillfully for the stranger, the answer will always be the same to the same question. The man who lives in Postojna, Ormož, Maribor, anywhere, will get only the question on the referendum card: Are you in favour of living in the province? There is nothing else that an individual will be able to decide. And if we encounter nonsense, nonsense, then I can certainly point out that, despite our clear will, we still have the disobedient Government coming out - and I will start at the seaside end - who wants to share Primorska in two parts, despite the fact that groups, crowds or congregations have clearly defined that they want to have a single coastal province. It's the same on the end of Styrian, where I come from. We're going to have a Middle Stairly, we're going to have an Eastern and we're going to have a Prekmursk region, very close to Celje and it's almost even closer to Koroška. What will be achieved by this microdivision? Ladies and gentlemen, nothing but a new administration. And when we expected an answer this morning to what will happen on the said working body, that is, the working body that prepared the matter for today's decision, then we can say with the same certainty that nothing has happened, that it has continued to announce a government proposal that some of the present Members of the ruling majority will most likely make for the carriers of individual provinces. But in other words, it must not be the aim of the National Assembly to map a particular province without funding, without tasks, according to the size of a Member, so that he can be a provincial head. And this is happening within the SDS, especially in Styria. If that's the point of the provinces, gentlemen and ladies, then let's all put our hands together and, let's say, let's stop our mandate today, leave the city to wiser, less egotistic people and break up. What do you do? According to the Lipa Group, history is, therefore, between us, not to be neglected, to learn something from it. Anyone who doesn't recognize it means that this man doesn't even live in the knowledge of today. If we found out what the story was with the local communities, namely the municipalities that grew from something 10 to 210 under the same pretext, nothing has changed, except that there are some mayors of Members who now want to be provincial chiefs, then the same story will happen to the provinces. The moment the ruling option sees that a territory of Slovenia no longer controls it, it will propose that the directory will be its province and we will have the mayor, the MP and the head of the province in that area. In other words, I firmly believe that the National Assembly had a unique opportunity to break this kind of political malversion if political wisdom were to take place. Unfortunately, she didn't perform, and unfortunately she's not performing today. That is to say, the law or the definition of the number of provinces in our country's highest legal act is the constitution. The fact is that the National Assembly has already met with this proposal and that only five members of the National Assembly have advocated the issue of the number of provinces being registered in the constitution. And the fact is that only one parliamentary group has fully welcomed this kind of content, this is the Lipa Group of Members. And I was the first to sign myself. Why in the constitution? Because the Constitution is governed by different rules than the laws. The Constitution is subject to the so-called constitutional procedure, a much harder procedure to change than to amend the ordinary law. And that would be the guarantee that in our country the number of landscapes per year would not change. You said no. Okay. In the Lipa Group we tried and offered you a law on the establishment of landscapes, in which we identified a smaller number of landscapes, mapped the map on the basis of people's wishes. But here you said, "No, we don't want a smaller number." And then let someone have so much courage and say, "We offered you cooperation." As the Government of the Republic of Slovenia now says. But, you know, the cooperation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the offer of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia means, "accept mine, we do not accept yours", and this is unilateral cooperation that does not lead to progress, but shows a mental process or a mental deficit by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Lipa Group of Members, as I have already announced, we will oppose this kind of mockery, referendum mockery not only from the opposition, which we are accustomed to and practice in the National Assembly, but mainly from citizens and citizens. If we met today at least the question that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would carry on so much credibility and people would ask if they wanted 2, 3, 6, 9 or 13 provinces, then they would get an answer through the referendum. But the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not hope to come up with such a question, but it comes with the question of whether Janez Novak wants to live in the province. And Janez Novak is in this case, or Janez Novak's is 2 million. We will oppose this proposal in the Lipa Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u16	Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members, President, Minister with a team, also you up on the balcony! A man doesn't really know where to start, but he does know where to start. One wonders whether even in view of the foolishness that we have already heard here today, anyone may have been on his own, even under the influence of drugs. There has already been a speech on the impact of drugs in our Parliament. Ambassador Jelinčič spoke about this a little while ago and will need to be drawn by the language to talk about it to the end. But let's leave it for another time. Today we are dealing with more serious work, today the National Assembly will decide to call a consultative referendum on 22 June. This consultative referendum will, of course, be called for because, in the vote on the establishment of the provinces on 1 February 2008, 60% of the Members present were not voted in Parliament; 50 were voted in favour, 27 and 7 were abstained. If we didn't vote against those who often know how to talk about better life, about caring for people, about caring for workers, and don't know what else, then we wouldn't have this consultation referendum. Or, in other words, if the law on the establishment of the provinces were to be supported and believed by the State Council, the Association of Slovenian Communities, the Community of Slovenian Communities, more than 85% of the expressed will of the mayors and municipal councils, even though some of them are here today, they have been democratically elected and have done much to develop individual environments, those in which they live. True, differences are great among the congregations, of course they are. In 1998, a law on the financing of municipalities was passed, which has increased these differences; some of you have forgotten. 5% of income per capita was higher in large urban settlements, 5,000 Slovenian tolars, because we spoke in this currency at the time. For some others, this meant 500 tolars. Differences increased with factor 10. Here, for this pay phone, I spoke for three hours at the time. Look at the ones you've forgotten. However, these were also survivors of the Slovenian municipalities. However, they have proved and demonstrated that, since their establishment, in the vast majority, a truly large majority, 90, 95% or even more, have built schools, built gyms, health homes, libraries, cultural homes. And not only did this build up, but in the vast majority, such health care, dental care, has drawn people closer to where they live. It's the end of the times when we were commanded that all of us from the village should go to the gentlemen's town. Today these gentlemen came upon you, among men. Of course, the congregations made conditions. And I am proud to be one of those Slovenian Members in the National Assembly, which is also the fourth mayor. Being four mayors probably doesn't mean much to speak, but they mean acts, jobs. There people judge after work, not by which political party you belong to. Of course, some in this House are here because they have come in under the auspices of certain political parties. That's right. True, though, some did not get tired of it, thought that they could take a larger step forward and, like children, at times gained their independence too quickly and then come back under the parental wing. But the decision of the parents is what it will be. They usually do. In politics, I believe it's a little different. So they were and will probably never be Members again, because they will not fall under the umbrella of the policy they have brought to the Slovenian Parliament. Why do we really need the provinces? Colleagues and colleagues, that we needed the provinces, was not the decision of the SDS, was not the decision of New Slovenia, was not the decision of the Slovenian People's Party, was not the decision of DeSUS. The decision that the Government, the Minister of Law, was our parliamentary decision. This is where we changed the constitution. With the change of constitution, we have built a foundation, a condition on which we can build the landscapes. If you ask me, it would be far better if in 1994, I had not been to the Slovenian Parliament at the time that you were establishing the municipalities, at the same time, to prepare the provincial legislation. I'm sure it would be for the best. The basic basic conditions of quality of life in the municipalities, about everything I said earlier, not to talk about water lines, roads, constructions already started on the periphery, sewerage, and, of course, in some municipalities where they have such leadership as they deserve, including the construction of a telecommunications network, optics, etc., increased the differences between the provinces. Why? Because the congregation has no legal capacity to influence the creation of economic conditions. We don't run the county. We don't decide on construction permits. So all of this, actually, in 1994, with the legislation and twelve years of the power of the Liberal Democracy, and then you didn't afford the United List, you didn't give it to us. This consensus, as I have understood in this mandate, by the opposition, would not be. It was the only agreement to establish the provinces. And as Minister Žagar walked from the parliamentary group to the parliamentary group last night, he said that he thought it was then an agreement that these meetings were of a cohesive nature. Last night he realized that it was just polite visits because you took him away because you stabbed him in the back, which is unfair and unfair. Or in other words, it's hypocritical. Not to the minister, to the Slovenian people, to the electorate and the electorate. However, believe me, the nation "remembrances" and it will also be filled. So why the referendum this time? In order for those who have recalculated some political games to tell you that the task of this House's mandate was to establish the provinces. If, honourable Members and Members, we have passed so much time for the contents of the six laws that the Minister has brought to Parliament; of course, the main laws are the Law on the Financing of the Provinces and the Law on the Transfer from the Ministries to the Provinces, as we have passed in the last time we have dealt with the procedure, how to establish the provinces, however, where we need 60% of the votes present, and what I have already mentioned is not enough for you to be told by those who have elected you in your districts, in your areas. During the substantive adoption of the legislation, you left the working bodies, left the meeting of the National Assembly, and obstructed. There were no transmissions. It wasn't that attractive. Now, in fact, if anything, then insult the Slovenian people when you talk about how they "safurled" local self-government. Please! To this day, after 12 years, none of the congregations have proposed to the National Assembly a merger with another congregation. However, I believe that this will happen, but first it is necessary to create fundamental conditions. You know, Slovenian peasant logic is still better than some great minds that used to be. Every farmer has his own cow in his barn and knows how and what. And believe me, better masters with her than 10 neighbors with his cow. So believe me, trust me. Please trust those around whom you will walk in two months and ask for votes. However, trust them that they will be able to manage with a billion and a half euros. Below Podravje or East Stajerska - as we will decide at the referendum, we promise you that we will know without Pječet, without Friday to rule in our field. We'll know how to build those roads and don't be afraid for us. Mr Friday and Mr Pece, you have shown yours, and the electorates and voters will respond to your work. You are already in Maribor at the local elections, and you, Mr. Peče, who are so afraid for the Destrinnik, will too. The question is, if you were elected to the block for the janitor at all, you'd have to go to the polls. You know, you don't get the mayor by flying out of Jelinčič's wing, but voters and voters have to trust you here.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u17	Mr. Puksich, there's something I'd like to ask you. You give names, and everyone you mention has no chance to defend themselves. Therefore, I ask you to focus on the topic on which you actually represent the position of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry I got a little carried away. It really got me a little carried away from the framework that I represent - I represent the position of the Group of Members. However, so much was involved in the apology, because I was also appointed during the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. Again, I'm sorry, and I'm gonna stick to this. I believe even that the opposition will be forced to admit to the referendum that by mined the province's legislation, it was trying to steal people's better future. And what the creation of landscapes means to citizens and citizens in general. Firstly, the guarantee for truly better and more coherent regional development of Slovenia. Secondly, creating more and better jobs; also outside central Slovenia, people will decide where they live, not in Ljubljana's bureaucrat offices. Thirdly, significantly more funding from the European Structural Funds. And finally, but not least, a better future for our children and grandchildren. And if the opposition, even after a successful referendum, does not vote in favour of establishing the provinces, for which it will have the opportunity in the month of July, i.e. at the so-called last meeting of this term, it will take grave advantage of the confidence of its constituents and thereby give the red card not only to itself but also to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, however, we will be able to talk about the occurrence of collateral damage to the opposition's irresponsible conduct. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the resolution on the call for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Early this morning, the ruling coalition, with one vote of a majority of 8:7, voted in favour of a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum on the area of the provinces, which we are discussing and will decide today. Before deciding on the proposal at the meeting of the National Assembly, it is right to state some important facts and circumstances about the procedure and the content of the decision on this referendum, so that the ruling coalition could not be excused for not being informed about them on our part. The decision was made and adopted by all the ruling coalition: SDS, Slovenian People's Party, Nova Slovenije and DeSUS. It is right to stress this because many parties in the public like to show people their views and actions, but in fact they vote differently in the National Assembly. However, when, through their most responsible members, even the President of the Party and Members of Parliament once announce that they oppose the provinces and the referendum, the second time they ensure, by their votes, that they first decide to go to the referendum and then the adoption of the decision, then it is only right to say so. Not because each party should not decide its own policy on its own, but it can, but it is right that it is so principled and so sincere that this policy says that it does what it promises and that it does not change its views every day. Second. We can expect that in the event of a decision taken and of a referendum from the main speakers and also from the well-known voters of coalition parties, as well as from Minister Zhagar, we will listen to how the opposition against the provinces and how the coalition provides development with the provinces, gives them powers and resources, allows them to decentralise how it will build roads, hospitals, secondary and higher schools and so on how the current coalition is the only one that has made it possible and how the opposition has broken its promises and policies and how it works against the interests and demands of people. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is quite the opposite. The opposition, by amending the Constitution, made it possible to draw up provincial legislation. However, it demanded that all issues be addressed simultaneously, requiring coordinated decision-making specifically on areas, competences and financing of the provinces. For some time, the coalition created an illusion of willingness to make arrangements. However, when it began blackmailing content and decision-making procedures, the opposition had to use the only weapon it had, that is a two-thirds decision in establishing the areas of the provinces. And so now consciously and falsely creates the feeling that everything is about just a number of landscapes. That's not true. And that's what we wanted to show today. In fact, it is not just about the number of provinces, it is actually about provincial legislation, it is about the desire to create landscapes that will be developmentable, which will be European comparable, but not only for the interests of certain party Februaryes. At least as far as Social Democrats are concerned, we have a very clear position to say almost a year ago. We said that the Social Democrats think they are better none than the disabled. This is what we said last summer, and since then we have proposed and asked the coalition to at the same time address all important laws, to go in the direction of an agreement, not in the direction of blackmail. But it happened the other way around. The coalition's attempts were to make forced decisions, with unsolicited solutions, with promises, because we will accept some of your amendments, but no one knew which, because you said nothing, and we are used to your actions. Once you have one proposal, secondly, once you've made a deal with one of the parties, next time you make a deal. Who else can believe you? This was all happening and therefore we had to make our decision when determining areas where the two-thirds majority is only needed. And since we said our decision, you started blackmailing in the coalition, you started threats and today you also made a concrete proposal to decide on this at the referendum. Of course, it is true that it does not matter what the landscapes will be, but that the landscapes should also be decided in accordance with the expert opinions, in accordance with European practice and in particular in accordance with the development objectives to be achieved with the provinces. Third. The referendum on the provinces that the coalition has forced is not motivated by the provinces, but motivated by the political objective of the coalition, which wants to ask people, at the expense of taxpayers, whether they want their province. Not if they want Slovenia to split into provinces. Not how many of these landscapes there are. No, what their powers should be. Not how they'll fund themselves. Not whether the seat of the province and the world should be in the same place or in different places. No, no, no. They just want to ask them if they want their country. This is pure manipulation, asking the Primors whether they want the Primorska krajina, Styjerce, Prekmurce and Dolenjce and so on, but they do not want to decide what the provinces in Slovenia should look like. This is a question that the coalition has invented and wants to go to a referendum with. And to answer this question together, after the decision of the majority in the National Assembly, we will spend more than €3 million in taxpayer money, and this, ladies and gentlemen, at the same meeting, when, at least so far, the government majority and the Government opposes amending the law on how to harmonise social benefits to households and individuals. There she thinks a few million euros too much to help solve social problems and give some money to those who actually live hard. Here, for its election propaganda, EUR 3 million is the right measure. In accordance with the legislation, the referendum on the provinces can only be consulted, we have no choice here, and we all know that. His results are not binding on anyone but political. But that's not the problem. The problem is that questions and possible answers are written in such a way that the Legal and Legislative Service has acknowledged that the answers will not be uniform and each of us will be able to invent and interpret the answers ourselves. I am not only myself, but I also hear many of the coalition's demagogues talking about what the only possible explanation is, and they will be making up fat stories about it because the results of the referendum will show something else. It may even be that the results will be objectively so contradictory that in some province there will be a "yes" vote in another "against". In one congregation within this province, vote in favour, in the other. How will you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, talk about the correctness of these results? By adapting them to your political interests. And that must be said in advance. The last time we decided whether the referendum was to be signed or not, I said, the answer would only be correct for us if there were adequate electoral participation, if uniform answers were to be given, but not if the answer would lead in a completely different direction. And that is also why we have proposed different alternative issues in the opposition. Why did we say that the electorate and the electorate might want 6, 8 or 13 or 14 provinces? If the coalition has already requested a referendum, we have proposed meaningful questions to tell citizens and citizens whether they want the provinces, whether they should be developmental and European comparable, or whether it should be only a fragmentation of Slovenia and the provinces which will not be able to achieve these results, which will therefore be created mainly because of the interest of certain party Februaryes. Fifth. We also suggested that the referendum should not be 22 June, but a week later - 29 June. This proposal is also without one word of explanation, which we are accustomed to because the arguments for the coalition apply relatively little if it has a majority. And yesterday, with the help of DeSUS, she had it on her mother's working body. Why did we propose for a week? In order for the decision to be better prepared, because there is still something that has been pointed out that the draft decision does not fully comply with the Referendum Act. To give ourselves time to make a deal. You in a coalition that talks so much about how you're for joint solutions, it's been three, four days that you might just sit down and find some common solution. In order for the coalition not to have to be blackmailed, first of all by the night meetings of the committee, then immediately in the morning the meeting of the National Assembly, all in order to catch the date to hunt for 30 days, to issue the Official Journal or even possibly to force the Official Gazette to be issued exactly when the decision in the National Assembly is taken in order to hold a referendum on 22 June. No argument, I believe you can't really give it, that a week means such a fateful deadline that it could not be a 29th instead of a 22nd June referendum. And one more thing might be important. On 29 June, the opposition also proposed the possibility of a referendum, as well as a consultation, on the issue or citizens and citizens of Slovenia really want the anti-corruption commission to be abolished. And I understand you're afraid of that question. I understand that you do not hope to allow such an important issue, which means much more than your empty demands for a one-day debate on who has more or less helped in the past to create tycoons, so that the decision on whether we will continue to have an anti-corruption commission is more important for citizens and citizens. And because you know that it is easier to reject this for a formal reason, because there is no way of respecting the deadlines to be simultaneously, and because you know that the opposition will not go and call a referendum a week or 14 days later and spend money on its own, you have decided to simply reject our proposal without saying anything. And finally. We need to know that the forced referendum will have no value. Not only will its results make sense, but it is unclear that we will be arguing about what they really mean, even if miraculously we have a large electoral participation and a result that can be interpreted equally, it is for the electorate and the electorate to say that this referendum for the establishment of the provinces will not have any value. The provinces can be established at the earliest in a good year, so now the legislation adopted, if the ruling coalition thinks to force it, will be reinstated by procedures that are unworthy of such important decisions will once again constitute a vote by one or two votes of the majority, but not by the necessary agreement that Slovenian policy, as well as by citizens and citizens, would need to make a smart decision. And these are the reasons why, in Social Democracy, we oppose the proposed decision on the call for a referendum. So let me conclude, it's not about the provinces, it's not about decentralisation, it's not about development, it's about trying to force a coalition to force an unnecessary referendum, it's about trying to run a coalition with state money for a month, and it's a false and unobjective pre-election campaign. I believe that the electorate and the electorate will recognize this fraud and it will not succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, you don’t know what else to say to a powerful, new, innovative, convincing, capable speaker who has been experiencing this saga for a long time has failed to repeat what has been said in many speeches. What to say after yesterday's sixteenth hours, which some Members spent in the National Assembly, of course, while we were here two days earlier and some of us spent the night or slept more than we slept over. But our obligation is to tell the Slovenian public what we think about this matter. And I'll tell you what we think in LDS. I believe that viewers, listeners, readers, and thus voters have already formed their views on what we are doing in the National Assembly, regardless of what we are saying today. I'm sure of it. However, I believe that the viewers have also come to the view that the National Assembly is a house of wisdom, sober thinking and prominence. Thus he also took these attributes from one of the journalists in the Slovenian media. This house, in the context of the decision on the referendum and the previous legislation on the provinces which is the basis of this referendum, has not indisputably achieved these attributes, or these attributes have not been realised by the coalition Members, who have assessed these values, which are supposed to embellish the National Assembly. Why am I saying this? There are arguments for that, and there is evidence for that, and I'm going to describe it. We all remember that this coalition initially opposed the referendum as a form of expression of the will of the voters of Slovenia at the beginning of the year. Therefore, first of all, it expresses its opposition, because of the needs which are different in three, four months from now, this same coalition will then decide to propose a consultative referendum and submit a proposal with the signatures of four coalition parties. In the meantime, a number of proposals put forward are being complemented. This proposal is also experienced by this same coalition of changes, various issues, different territories of future provinces, different names. Some of the signatories are withdrawing. Here I am referring to Mr Klavora, who has withdrawn from the proposal to sign the referendum. The culmination of all this happened yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which lasted from half ten nights to one at a time - when the same Member, who withdraws the signature of the Decision and the invitation to tender, participates in the meeting of the Committee, even though we have not seen him at one of the meetings so far. And in the seat of a member of the committee from the same party, DeSUS, Mr Rezman, there is someone else sitting at this meeting who has so far not participated in these discussions. What does that look like? That in this party, which has been and has also expressed some sort of self - criticism today, practices that are not worthy of it, or that show that the party is not worthy of respect. These actions have led to the fact that a Member who has always ensured to the public that he would not support the proposal for a referendum, namely Mr Rezman, has avoided such a meeting, replaced by a Member withdrawing the signature from the referendum proposal. And yesterday, without discussion, without justification, without any kind of performance, he voted on or confirmed what we are dealing with today. When we asked ourselves what was the reason for such a conversion in DeSUS, which so sworn to principle, yesterday this principle did not appear, this consistency did not appear, it circulated through the National Assembly information that this was done because it was necessary to defend the ministerial position of Mr Jerjavac, that he was appointed an ultimatum, whether Mr Erjavec would no longer be Minister, or, if you would not do so and support it, Mr Erjavec would not be Minister, so backed by provincial legislation. And that's what happened. And here is the story of DeSUS, so today we're talking about this. In all of these developments yesterday, in the background, everything that has happened before is preliminary, that we have been discussing the province's legislation for as long as the yoke of the snake, and that in these debates and in these proposals there is also a participation of Minister Žagar, who at least at times I have given him a supplement, a respected minister, today I do not add to it. For me, there's only Minister Jagar who's fulfilling the task he's been given. He lost credibility with me, which he may have enjoyed at first. And this Minister, Jagar, explains to the public how he communicated with Members, how he tried to find solutions, how he was available to everyone, how he took his views into account, how he took the proposals into account. The fact is, as far as LDS is concerned, it wasn't all there. We told him at the outset, and we insisted all the time that until we have complete legislation on the table, so the laws of the five laws that make a package of all legislation are pointless to speak and make decisions. The coalition with Minister Zhagar was quick to do this, did its job as a roller coaster, adopted one marriage after another, until it was broken by that key law that demanded a majority, which it was not. Nevertheless, they continued to adopt other legislation, although this key law was not adopted, so today we have a situation at the border and at the edge of the farce. We've heard it all, we know it all, it's no use repeating it. The fact is that the objective set by the coalition has been achieved. The inhabitants of Slovenia will go to the referendum. What will become of this referendum has already been said. It's about spending taxpayers' money, it's about a non-binding referendum, it's about manipulating a coalition that obviously manages to get people in a position, a dilemma when they don't know what a referendum decision is. The questions are such as to ask the inhabitants of Slovenia whether they are for it or for the inhabitants of the individual provinces to be given more money. Anyone would say yes. Whether this money would come into the real country, come into the right area, is another story. So it is manipulation and this manipulation will lead to the interpretation of the results of this referendum by the National Assembly. Instead of preparing a referendum question and a clear decision, we will leave an interpretation of the outcome to the National Assembly. What will come of this will show time. We know what this is all about. In this story, when some of us had the opportunity to monitor this evaluation of the proposals that were made on the coalition's grasshopper, we joined with Member Trofenic and tabled an amendment yesterday because we had a basis for this, because there were many proposals on our tables for different forms of land integration and many proposals on different names of the landscapes. And for this reason, Mr Trofenic and I would like to say this to the Styria public, if you want to, and to the Slovenian public, we have proposed that, with what the coalition is proposing, the question be asked whether the people now want to be in this working material, the so-called Ormo-Ptujska region or the Lower Region and the inhabitants, in the proposed construction of the Maribor Region or the Central Region, only to decide that these two proposed provinces should unite in the Single Styrian Region. So we estimate that this is the interest of most of the people in this environment. And we wanted to give the inhabitants of this environment, from Ormož or, if you want, the Centres near Drava via Ptuj, Bistrica, Lenart, Maribor to Šentilj, an opportunity to choose the option if they want to live, create and develop in such a single Styria region. By the way, let me say that the Maribor City Council has concluded and sent a proposal to Minister Žagar that any province in which Maribor will be named Styria, not Central Styria, as written. If you are talking about meeting the conclusions of the city councils, the City Council of Maribor has only adopted this decision and this decision has not yet been implemented by policy. And this amendment, which was similar to that of the coalition's amendments, has not been supported, of course, only because it has been made out of opposition logos, and also because some of you who are so scrupulously striving for such a large number of small landscapes are afraid that you will lose your influence in strong provinces, your job opportunities, your opportunities to spend money in narrow local environments. Here I am referring to the SDS, which shows this ruthlessly, which even in its statements says this and does not hope to look the truth in the face. All that is said in these words is sincere. So I think the referendum is nonsense. We think in the Liberal Democracy it's a delusion, it's a manipulation, it's not a serious purpose. That it's a pre-election activity paid by taxpayers. And because of this in the LDS, of course, we will not support the referendum or referendum decision in such a way, with such questions, with such justifications.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor, on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a good day to all present! I must say that some of us heard good morning before 9:00 a.m., a few minutes after midnight, when the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development was still sitting and deciding how to proceed with the referendum. On Monday, most Members and Members of the New Slovenia Group supported the proposal for a referendum. Why did we support him? We supported him because the law on the introduction of the provinces after the first reading remained at a dead end. And at least some Members of the New Slovenia Group believe that it is only right to ask people about the provinces. To ask people in the proposed areas whether they're for the provinces or not. Many of us have or have had serious concerns in the past about the very introduction of the provinces. Somehow, however, we are only united that decentralisation in Slovenia needs to be carried out. And doubts as to whether it is the right question for people in a particular area to decide whether they are the provinces or not, we do not think that the opposition is appropriate. There's no argument. We're actually on two shores. Some of us explain whether we should ask people about the number of provinces, about the specific numbers, but we are not talking about the provinces, and on the other hand, the people are seriously warning, but I think that there will be no arguments that there will be no added value, given that we will ask every citizen and citizen in that area whether it is for the country or not. Perhaps some of you forget that the former government has adopted the Harmonised Regional Development Act, that in that law, which we have also completed in this mandate, a lot of regionalisation has been defined. In fact, from a financial point of view, between 2002 and 2004, the then government did not implement this law. The law clearly defined the amount of gross social product to be allocated to address development differences. The former government didn't do this. The law was not implemented. But it was already determined that 12 so-called developmental statistical regions should be in Slovenia. These are, unfortunately, facts today. The framework was built at the time. And if that were not the case, we in the New Slovenia Group today would not have so many concerns about the number of provinces. It would also be much easier for us from this point of view that we have always advocated a smaller number of provinces. And today I wonder whether it's a point to hold a referendum or not. I am firmly convinced that what I have said so far is the basis. Let's ask these people if they're for the provinces or not. However, even though we are talking about the referendum today, I would like to say something else about the rest of the legislation that has experienced a lot of criticism in the National Assembly that it is poorly prepared not to be good. But when we seriously asked those who criticized her to make better proposals, that was not the case. These laws will not be decided by men, and these laws will have to be decided in the National Assembly. I must stress once again that in New Slovenia we were disappointed about the opposition's accession to these laws. We have been involved in the process of implementing local self-government for many years, and we strongly oppose these claims. Only by such an approach, I have in mind, above all, the Law on the Financing of the Regions and the Law on the Transfer of Tasks, could reduce development differences in the future. Dear colleagues, there is no other option. There is no other option, both in the Law on the Financing of Municipalities and in the Law on the Financing of Landscapes, that solidarity must be an important component in this regard. And such a model was also prepared by the Ministry of Local Self-Government. We will only be able to talk about the second part when these development differences are at least partially eliminated. They probably won't in the future. And what's interesting is that the opposition, the ones you've criticized the most, you haven't even prepared another model. In a very easy way, you can prepare or say change individual factors, individual indices into a certain prepared formula for calculating so-called, if I may say, appropriate consumption. Everyone knows that. It was surprising, however, to those who live in undeveloped areas today, what the goal is to those who have pushed these factors up a little bit, to further impoverish the underdeveloped areas of Slovenia. This was the purpose of those who have constantly criticized that it is not good and that something must be done about it. I'm sure there's no other way than to change the model, a model of funding. As I mentioned earlier, this is not acceptable to Slovenia at this time. It is unacceptable that a multiple of the differences between north-eastern Slovenia, southern Slovenia and central Slovenian works could be eliminated. As I said before, it's not up to voters to decide, but it's right for voters to know where the problems were, why it's all left at the dead point, to know who's responsible. And you know, you're not going to say that there's already a worn-out record when we say you're not for decentralisation. This should be repeated all the time. When the basic law did not go through the first hearing, it meant that some were not for the decentralisation of Slovenia. And as I said last time, we would be discussing today's second reading of the law on the establishment of landscapes and not talking about a referendum that would really cost some taxpayer money. If we were then able to think clearly and to support the first reading, we might be able to supplement a number of things during the second stage of consideration. I am firmly convinced that a compromise could be found. The Minister was always prepared to introduce everything that would be good for the establishment of the provinces during the second stage of the hearing. Let me finish. Members and Members, most of them, Members of the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a referendum or decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u26	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Good-bye. Before us is the last step towards the call for an advisory referendum on the regions of the provinces in Slovenia. We will decide on a decision on the call for a consultative referendum to allow voters and voters to decide on the establishment of the provinces. The establishment of the provinces is a key project of this coalition and, as we supported the proposal for an advisory referendum, we will also support the proposal for a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum. I will repeat once again what I have already said several times in presenting the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We firmly believe that when we talk about the provinces, we are talking about the development of Slovenia as a whole. This is the optimal economic, social, cultural and democratic development of each province and of all as a whole, which will of course affect the coherent regional development of the country. Despite the smallness of Slovenia, statistical indicators tell us that differences in statistical regions are large or increasing. We believe that too many regional differences are criminal to citizens and citizens living in less developed regions. This needs to be overcome and we believe that by establishing the landscapes we will achieve just that. Without wider provincial communities, more polycentric development will not be possible. So in the Slovenian People's Party, let us draw from the positive experience that the establishment of local self-government in the form of municipalities was one of the most important decisions that contributed to the more equitable development of Slovenia. That was just the first step, and these days we are ahead of the next step. We supported the proposal to call for an advisory referendum, and we are still ahead of the resolution on the call for an advisory referendum. The motion for a decree for a type of referendum, which shall be signed as a referendum, referenda and texts of the questions decided at the referendum in a particular referendum area, shall be set at the date of the referendum and the day of the vote at the referendum. Since the establishment of the provinces is a matter of greater importance and concern for all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, and especially for the inhabitants of the individual areas of the future provinces, the Slovenian People's Party's Group agrees that the proposed resolution on the call for an advisory referendum provides for consultations in the whole country's territory divided into referendum areas. The predominant division of the state administration and the territorial division of Slovenia into areas where the common interests and needs of regional importance have been created in more than 30 years of the implementation of regional development policy measures must be taken into account. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the latter is a fundamental starting point for the creation of an area of the wider self-government local community. The decree contains questions which are determined by deciding on the area of the proposed province. It is true that where there is no uniform position on behalf of the province, this is also decided in the framework of the referendum. In the Slovenian People's Party, we almost cannot believe the aggressiveness of trying to prevent the normal development of regionalism. Especially because it seemed that the change in the Constitution had only reached a consensus on the introduction of a second level of local self-government. It seems that opposition party analysts have found that before the elections they will be helped by the demagogic emphasis that the introduction of regionalism will increase administration, reduce efficiency and undermine the functioning of the country. I believe that this could happen, but on the other hand, I have so much confidence in this government or anyone who will come for this government, that it will operationally implement the introduction of the provinces and implement them as provided for by individual laws. And that the introduction of the provinces will not increase the administration, undermine the country's operations, but will distort development activities, bring decision-making closer and even increase the rational consumption of tax money. I believe that it is realistic that this coalition will also adopt all the necessary laws and the provinces will be introduced or constituted at least in the next local elections in 2010. If this does not happen, it will be the next opportunity to introduce the provinces only in 2014 or not at all. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that this would be a disaster for Slovenia's equal development. We believe that the referendum questions are concrete enough, clear enough that people will know what they are deciding, so this resolution on the call for an advisory referendum, as I have already mentioned, will be supported by the SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. Mr. Juban, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u28	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u29	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I had the same procedural proposal at the meeting on this item of the agenda at about the same stage for the last time, which I will now talk about. The first part of my procedural proposal is that we stop this debate, which leads nowhere and does not talk about what we are going to decide about, this is about the referendum, but it speaks of the provinces and the senseless deception of the citizens of Slovenia, that we will today decide on the establishment of the provinces or give them the opportunity to establish the provinces, which is not true. Today we are talking about the invitation to a referendum: yes or no. And that's what everyone's arguing about. And when they have presented their views to the parliamentary groups, I think that this deception is sufficient and that the National Assembly should decide to vote on the referendum. Every further debate is complete nonsense. Why? Based on what I said last time, and this document that we have before us, people are not going to decide anything. I thought I was wrong last time, but today I still thought I was wrong not to understand the document. But now that my colleague Pukšič, whom I still respect, cannot explain to me what people will vote when he says, and many others that the Commission will decide and then the National Assembly will decide what they will decide, it means that we are making an ugly joke from the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We probably only need material as to how someone voted that in the following numbers of the Slovenian week, paid by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the needs of one political party, it will be published how someone voted and who is in favour of the province and who is against it. On the basis of this document, which we have before us, people will not decide anything. And the promise behind this pay phone was that the working body would clean it up so we could get one variant on the table. Three variants are for one intended province and will jointly decide that they are "yes" or "against" and each congregation individually. What are you talking about? Who do you think you are? On the basis of this document, people will decide nothing and someone will manipulate the result by their own free will, expecting that it will be the majority of the electoral commission or the new national assembly, because there will be nothing in this mandate. That's why my procedural proposal is to stop a hundred stupid discussions, decide on this referendum, probably the majority is assured, I don't mind if it's half an hour of pause, or an hour, or two hours of pause to consider, and to check the power, and to stop with this one of the greatest farcees that has ever happened in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u32	A replica or an explanation because I was named.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u33	Mr. Puksic, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u34	I was appointed during a procedural proposal, so I would like to state it [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u35	There's no replica. I can't give you my word. [[...]] [[A consultation.]] [[....]] On the basis of Mr Juban's proposal, I would like to say the following. We can vote on this procedural proposal to end the debate. But we need to know if anyone else is going to table any amendments. That's the first one. And a second time. The amendment tabled must be discussed. Please, Dr. Gantar, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u36	That's what I wanted to point out procedurally. I propose, however, that the esteemed proposal of an esteemed colleague should not be put to the vote. We are discussing the decree and the amendment which has been tabled to this decision. Such a debate would in fact not be possible under this amendment, so we need to hold a debate. There is no way to prevent a debate, although some would like to, but I understand the rationality of this proposal. I do not think there are any business reasons and possibilities for this decision to be put into consideration and decided, because it is completely distorted by the very idea of a parliamentary debate and a debate on a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Based on that, I'd say so. I wouldn't put that in a decision whether or not to discuss it. I would also like to say that, by the end of the general debate, amendments can be tabled. Therefore, I ask those who have proposed this to be dismissed. The debate follows, as Members were reported. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! For Koroška this referendum is really unnecessary, it does not need it, because the Koroškas are plebiscitely determined to use the landscape to have the landscape. Finally, remember that the Korean Members were the first to submit a proposal for a law on the province of Korea in the parliamentary procedure. I think it was about a decade ago. And more than a referendum, the Koros would need some political wisdom, the responsibility of the MPs of the National Assembly, to finally decide about the provinces and to gain their province. Thus we have different debates in this last year or even more when looking for some with a balinian manner, so to speak, with little-brained ideas of the province in Slovenia without Koroška. Koroška is one of the main and historical landscapes in Slovenia in general. I agree with those who say that the landscape itself will not save all developmental setbacks. That's right. However, the establishment of landscapes can reduce the backlog, reduce the difference between the developed and the underdeveloped. In 2006, Koroška had about €10,000 of gross domestic product per capita. At this time, the central Slovenian region had EUR 21,000 of gross domestic product per capita. And of course, the difference is obvious. For example, if the Koros had made their own decisions for the past 10, 15 years on state roads, then of course they would not have been driving in such ruins, almost macadamian roads. We still have state roads, which are white, which are macadamian. This government, this National Assembly of Koroška for the first time earmarked slightly more money for state roads, in 2006 €6.5 million, in 2007 €10 million. If it were a country, I'm sure that money would be substantial. If we had a province, we would decide for ourselves about a general hospital, a regional hospital in Slovenj Gradc. Only after 10, 15 years did this hospital receive money from the state budget for reconstruction, which is about 15 million euros. Ten years ago, 15 years ago, nothing. And if we had a province, the Koros could make their own decisions and deal with essential ecological problems, such as the rehabilitation of the upper Mežiški valley. So we waited for this rehabilitation for decades, and only this government, this national assembly, has devoted considerable resources to the rehabilitation of the Upper Mezhica Valley, which is burdened with lead, which is €15 million by 2022. Unfortunately, I am not sure that this referendum, which the Koreans will certainly vote on, will also mean that the National Assembly will act wisely, and in this Parliament will also decide on the provinces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. To begin with, I would like to say that the amendment that we tabled with the LDS and, indeed, I will support because it seeks at least to increase credibility in the proposal for this referendum, which, like it, certainly does not convince anyone. And if you'll allow me, because colleague Friday talked about it, in connection with this amendment or not, some of my thoughts, and I'll be brief about the referendum itself. Look, at the University of Primorska, students have their own radio. This radio is called Radio Kazin. I'm saying this because some woman immediately became appalled at what they named herself, that name means a brothel. We reassured her that this is not the case, because according to domestic 'casine' means disorder, rustling, meaning confusion, tie, or, as we say in Istria, confusion. Certainly, if our coastal students were to deal with us, I think they would draw from this story, with this referendum and our landscapes so much material and so much footage that we could play for quite some time, maybe a week. The referendum you're imposing on us, Mr. Secretary, is not an honor. It is not an honor of the effort that you and your colleagues have put into the landscape project and, above all, it undermines my faith personally, which I have had, that it was your intention to finally take a step forward towards regionalisation, honest. That's not true. I listened to you on TV when you convinced the public that after the elections, when we put it off for a few months, in the new legislative mandate, we would start all over again from the beginning. That's not true. You know it's not like that. A good deal has been reached in many ways, within the framework of the package you presented to us. And we could reach autumn 2010 when, together with the municipal councils, the mayors and the mayors elected for the first time new provincial councils. Of course, if we called again for help and listened to the profession. But those reference professions. In particular, we have listened to their warnings about what might happen to us if we move on and move on with regard to the financial autonomy of the provinces, the area of the provinces or borders and the number of provinces. Yesterday we heard, certainly two of the largest eminents in the field of local self-government - Dr. Vlad and Dr. Pluto. If you don't listen to them, of course you're going the wrong way. With regard to the commitment to the outcome of such a referendum as you impose upon us, let me tell you immediately that he will not personally bind me. And not because of that, if I said by student, "I'm getting out of this casino," simply because I know that people would get the same outcome if they asked otherwise, if they were just between Koper, Isolo and Pirano. That would be the result of "Yes." Are they for the province between the Piranh and the Bogotá? That would be the result of "Yes." Do they want Postojna or no Postojna? In any case, the outcome would be yes. And the opposite would be the outcome and equally binding if we asked one question for all citizens and citizens and asked them: Do you agree that we have 13 provinces? If we understand what the occasional detection of public opinion tells us, we know that the outcome would be no. We don't understand that. We're moving. We should ask people like that, not as you suggest. Before that, I have heard a colleague from the Slovenian Democratic Party who is accusing the opposition and opponents of such a "forsing" on your part of accusing us of "knife in the back" to you, Mr Minister. If anyone is really after you, it is those who convinced you to come with such a proposal to the National Assembly. No offense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. I will briefly tell you why we supported and support the consultative referendum on the provinces in Novi Slovenija. Let me start with a positive conclusion that this is the National Assembly, and this is really positive, well started the process of decentralisation of Slovenia and the establishment of landscapes in Slovenia, the establishment of a second level of local self-government. So it's local self-government. We have reached quite a consensus in changing the Slovenian Constitution, which opens the door to the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia. Although some still in the National Assembly today, especially on my right, they think and are convinced that even when we have only statistical regions in Slovenia to ensure coherent regional development. Sorry we're not doing it. Not in this mandate, not in previous mandates. In many ways, the laws that are supposed to make this possible, but we can't. And I'm wandering around the statistical region of Pomurje, and I don't know who to ask, who is responsible for the 34-year backlog of Pomurje towards the central Slovenian province. I don't know who to ask that question to. At the second level, however, I want to have a local self-government institution called the province, and I want the authorities, the provincial world and so on and so forth in this institution. And to them, you, Mr Žnidaršič, will say how much, because you know everything when you have a word, but now please respect one Member's ethics, and then I will ask those authorities of the province whether we are still and why we may be behind so much and so much for the most developed central Slovenian region. So it's about establishing responsibility. The province, including Pomurska, will have to take fate into its own hands. There's no other way. It's about responsibility. There are times when we've all managed everything. But we know where these times have led us. The referendum will give a picture of what the map should look like and what individual parts of Slovenia should be called. So it's hardware. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's not that important a hardware. With this referendum, of course, we will encourage people to think even more intensively about the second level of local self-government. It is important that we have software, that we need legal solutions, how we manage the provinces, how we will finance them, what responsibilities they will have. That important software is only for intermezzo to those who are gagging at it, but you certainly do not know, the foreign press agency has published for some Slovenian software house, that it may be a new or European Google, is also called 'new European Google'. And he mentions the Slovenian software house, where there are some young people, and I will commit a sin, Mr Vice President, Zemanta is called this company. A group of young people who are said to be European Google. We don't read about it at home because it's too positive. The foreign press agency also reports on this and the software for how the country should function, these solutions are written in the provincial legislation prepared by the Government, prepared by Minister Ivan Žagar, who has put a lot of effort into these solutions, into this software. However, when it happened in 2008, and with this also irrationality or the curse of the election year, it happened also in January on the black Friday, when the opposition clearly said "no" to the provinces. "No" in principle. They said they disagreed with the number but did not have a concrete proposal. They said they didn't agree with the funding, but they didn't have any alternative formulas. They said they did not agree with the powers and tasks of the province, but did not have concrete proposals. It is therefore necessary to animate and engage people so that at least people help us with the contours of the landscapes in Slovenia at the consultation referendum. I will support this decision myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jazbec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Vice President, the Minister for Cooperation! We have before us a further proposal for a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum on the regions of the provinces in Slovenia. This Government and this coalition have put an end to this work at the outset so that it can be terminated in some normal circumstances in this mandate. With the amendment of the Constitution in 2006, the conditions were laid down for the Government of Regional Development and Local Self-Government to prepare a so-called package of provincial legislation, and last year we started to examine this provincial legislation. At the very beginning, it was surmised that this legislation could receive sufficient support in the National Assembly. However, some opposition parties, after all, have changed their minds with a single pretext that legislation is not good. I think that it was all together, and it must be stressed that in the opposition at that time, you have made it very clear that the adoption of this legislation is not in a hurry, that there is still enough time and that we should not rush or force any of this legislation for God's sake. Today, just a few months after that, you claim exactly the opposite that you want to do all the work that the Government and the Local Self-Government Service have put in place in the preparation of the provincial legislation to harmonise the provincial legislation, because this statutory law covering 49 and 50 regional laws had to be aligned with all ministries. And believe that state bureaucrats who don't care that powers are transferred from the country by this legislation to a lower degree, that's to the provinces, they weren't excited about it, and they were very resilient at every withdrawal of power. The Minister managed to harmonise this legislation with his services until this stage, so that even in the second reading the majority was adopted in the National Assembly. What is stuck, however, is the so-called two-thirds law, the Law establishing the provinces to which we or you, unfortunately, on this black Friday, as some have called it yesterday, on the home labour body, which I have already heard about today in the debate, rejected this law. In fact, the government coalition and the Government and the Minister for Local Self-Government have nothing left but this last possibility that how much support has been announced by the local communities now to the province's legislation, the landscape map, is actually being asked for by the people at the referendum. Today, we are at this stage in order to decide after this debate also on this proposal for a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum. I have somehow found out among some debaters today, and this kind of saddens me that policy at the national level and also at the local level has already continued to indicate that the outcome of the referendum will not be respected and that it is not binding on it. It seems to me that this actual muscle straining is about the fact that this official is not willing to follow the will of the people. These eternal instigations, as this legislation did not take account of the profession, even some names are mentioned. I'd say so. The profession mentioned was a four - year - old minister in a similar position or function, such as Dr. Žagar. And why would Dr. Zhagar's profession be less valuable than someone who did this function years ago? The legislation that is ahead of us and can be adopted this year, or in this mandate, and the referendum result, for which we expect, at least in the coalition, that in most of the foreseeable future provinces will succeed or be successfully implemented, and will also receive appropriate support, will give us the opportunity to adopt this umbrella law in this mandate, even at the last meeting of the National Assembly. I appeal to reason and, in the wake of the opposition's great efforts to prevent this referendum from actually being carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support the amendment, because at least it allows this referendum to raise an even more meaningful question, if voted, than the one before which citizens will be confronted with the decree and amendment we are discussing. The decree we have on the table puts citizens ahead of the impossible choice and the demand to express themselves literally on the craziness of the ruling policy, to try the black Friday, which has happened by rejecting the proposal to establish the provinces, to replace it with a happy Thursday in which people will discuss and decide something, the result of which is not known at all. It does not need to be pointed out that their expression in any way will not affect the design of the landscapes, as it will not be possible to clearly establish the referendum outcomes, but at the same time it has been announced that the referendum will be taken into account if possible. The map you put into discussion by this decree is against all the laws of the province. The landscape is simply too much and wrong, radically wrong are territorially shaped. In particular, the sixth referendum area, if you tell me what the Blocks have together with Zagorje ob Savi, Osilnica, with Dol pri Ljubljana, we will be able to discuss this. This area does not even have a single centre of gravity that is excluded into a particular province or into a city with the status of the province. The country will not be established in Ljubljana, but the city will only receive the status of the province. It's a re-degradation of the place. So I don't talk too much and waste my colleagues' time. I must say, I was also disappointed by the political process itself. I wouldn't mind my colleagues from DeSUS if we took the view that they were going with the government to the project and defending their consistent position. One way or another. But what has happened is that their President Karl Erjavec has always been vehement, so to speak with crocial aberration, that against all referendums, at the same time against provinces that do not have consensus, is suddenly changing. Apparently, this stormy front coming from the north and thundering from the north, the northern front, would say, a cold atmosphere and quite a cold rainfall, this northern front forced this unfortunate president of Erjavac to find himself under the roof of a ruling coalition, to defend his other positions and other problems in this country. Bad. I would simply say to my colleagues from New Slovenia, whose views I appreciated and also very close to the proposal, to their first proposal, which they made, which was a good basis for discussion. Look where you are in public opinion polls! John Janša and his client cleaned up everything in the coalition. There's no you, and there's no one else. And, of course, why not? It's clear, because even where you have a rational reason and a good basis for saying, we think so, you were forced to change your mind. And why would people actually decide in this situation? Ask a little questions about the political sequences of your conduct and also about the sequences it has in place to regulate the country. That's why I would just say, well, today is a really happy Thursday, a happy Thursday for all those who think that politics is "show" that politics is a rhompom and that people can be drawn to their hair indefinitely and to their beliefs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakob President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, visitors on the balcony, nice greeting to you too! I must say that personally, and I think that even in the Slovenian People's Party, I believe that the referendum is not a tool that we would use everywhere and everywhere and at any cost. The results of the referendum have also been used many times so far and, as it is said, we are not great supporters of continuing to go to the referendums. It is the duty and responsibility of the National Assembly in particular to carry out its work and to decide on matters for which voters and voters have also appointed us or sent us to this Chamber of Democracy. However, in cases where there is also a need to get an opinion from the base and when we do not reach a suitable decision in this house, I also support this way of obtaining an opinion from citizens and citizens. I also agree that it is, and I have repeatedly pointed out this and unfortunately failed, because the law on referendum and people's initiative is roughly what it is called, so written that it is not possible for the referendum questions that we have for each referendum area of this referendum to be recorded on one ballot and for the voters and voters to decide which proposal they support. That is why I agree that these results will be hard to read when all these questions are written in individual referendum areas on individual lists, on which we will decide "for" or "against" on the referendum. I agree with you that a little bit of these results will blur that way. This is now one initiative for the legislator to try this flaw in the future, in my opinion it is a flaw in the law, to eliminate, in such cases, that a referendum can be carried out in such a way that the results can be readable, or that the wishes of individual voters can be clearly seen, what they wish to say to the legislator through the referendum. But that's the way it is, it's the law, and of course we have to stick to it. I am also, of course, sorry that we have not taken advantage of the extraordinary efforts made by Minister Žagar and his team in the preparation of all the laws necessary to establish this second level of local self-government. I think that the preparation and coordination of these laws have taken place well, for a long time, at the professional level, that they have also been exploited, although it is obvious that not all of them have been used, but experts who are well-trained and well-known in this area have also been exploited. In the end, however, this main law, which requires a two-thirds majority of the Members and Members present, has unfortunately fallen precisely because of the obvious that these laws are suddenly poorly prepared. Although it was possible for all these laws to be kept open in the procedure, I myself felt that some of the solutions that were mostly criticised or on which individual comments were made should be left open in the second reading and corrected in the third reading. Unfortunately, however, we have not taken advantage of this joy or opportunity. And he fell, what you call it, but I don't see that it would be a black Friday, anyhow, but one day, I don't even know if it was Friday, but I guess it was already, this Law establishing the provinces didn't have an adoption in the National Assembly. And that is why I support asking voters and voters whether or not they want the country in particular areas. And to those where we may not be able to unite in this house, what the name of the province should be, to give their opinion on this too. I myself come from the future, if there is, of course, the Savinijsko-Shale region, where I think it is important and for many years I have supported the fact that many institutions, and in fact there are more and more, are operating in the area of the entire upper-seat, chalice area. I always stress on all public matters that this is some kind of preparation for the establishment of a future province. I see the future landscape only as an official upgrade to all of these events that have already occurred. True, of course, when we walk among people, not everyone feels the same way. Some support such a way, such landscapes, others are also different opinions that they are for a greater, I don't know, Celje region, so it seems important to ask people at the referendum whether they want or don't want this Savinja-Salak region. This seems to me because today I do not think that the debate on the provinces, the law on the provinces, is the law on the call for a referendum. I think that this contribution, whatever it is, has gone in the right direction to discuss the call for a referendum. Since I have nothing more to add to this, I can only say that I support this referendum, which, if we vote, will be in one month and there will be results as they will be. I am sure that people will always make the right decision everywhere and we will also have to interpret these results correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Nice greeting also to visitors, actually visitors on the balcony from the Slovenian Konjice Management Unit! I personally support this law because I also want to establish the Celje region, which should also be part of the municipalities of Slovenian Konjice, Zreče and Vitanje. Much has been said today, of course, even in the past period. But it's something interesting. There has been a lot of repetition that we are imposing something on you in the coalition and that we are doing damage to Slovenia. But see if it's an old story, or if you didn't say the same at the beginning of the mandate, when this government decided to improve the state of pensioners in order to improve the calculation of pensions, it will fix the pensioners a little bit more. The SD Member, Mr Cvikl, has even announced the disaster of Slovenian finances and some foreign institutions have been sending misleading data through the National Bank's Analysis Centre to spread Slovenian finances. But that wasn't true. See, you have had the same concerns or similar concerns about the highway program that we are going to talk about today. There are always some concerns. The same was true of the student diet, you had a million questions about why it would not be good, why it would not be good, why so quickly, why so quickly - you would wait a little longer for some generations of students to be free of lunch or be free of lunch and so on. The story repeats itself. However, everything you have criticised and said that it is not right results in the highest economic growth in the euro area. Slovenia is the highest with economic growth and you have been against everything. Everything went against you, you didn't find the right compass, what's good for Slovenia and what's not. A question that was raised a little earlier, what have Kamnik and Osilnica had in common? I think that something more than Ljubljana and Belgrade, where we used to live together, you never asked yourself what they have in common Ljubljana and Belgrade. Even that was the problem, whether we win or not. Even in history, you need to let yourself down a little and remember some things because the same patterns keep repeating. The same patterns are repeated. Decentralisation is needed. This needs to be said more than once. It is true, however, that the law itself, the law itself and the referendum itself will not move the matter, but will be moved by the consequences of that positive one, the effects that will result from Slovenia decentralising itself into several units. And I am sure that the area from which I come, which will be covered in the celery region, will also have a few more options when it can have the money that will be available. Now it's just in one hand, in one center. That's got its own good side, too. But just as it turned out to be good that we have established smaller congregations, and some minor problems that are invisible in the great congregation have become even more crucial in the smaller congregation. And the development went on. What's basic and what I really don't understand is that you're so afraid of the referendum, that you're so afraid to ask people whether they want decentralisation or whether they want to live in some country. Are you really so afraid that Slovenia would progress even more quickly to reduce these differences between different locations, between individual regions? I just don't get it. And that's my riddle, because we know if people make decisions, then there's definitely a result. As I mentioned earlier, there are smaller congregations and they are successful. It may be that in which congregation development did not go as quickly as they imagined. But in most congregations, development has gone faster because it is easier to see small problems that are hardly visible in a large congregation. But this is obvious in the small one, and these problems are also being solved. Of course, I will support the basic proposal of this law. Any delay or any amendment that would complicate this matter, I will not support it. Of course, I would support any amendment that would solve problems as people imagined, when we also received letters of support for the province and letters, how some things could be better solved, and where some congregations could be classified. But I won't support stalling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I've heard a lot of things now in the debate. The findings that those who are now against the provinces were also for Belgrade and not for Ljubljana that they were against independence. All of this can be packed nicely, but it's one of the terrible stupidities spoken in the National Assembly. It's like that to get people in the package, probably not. I will support the amendment, which is proposed, why we are moving the referendum to June 29th. This, of course, allows us to ask some more people at the same time. If we have a consultation referendum, it is good to make useful use of it. Let's also ask them about the anti-corruption commission. Of course, this referendum is strongly opposed by the coalition. They would only ask people what they want to hear. What they don't want to hear is, of course, superfluous. And this manoeuvre, which has taken place this night and will continue today, is leading in this direction to prevent a referendum on June 29th and to prevent procedurally coming to this additional referendum. So it is in line with the predictions that there will be no other referendum, and this one will be reliable. I also had doubts about the referendum in January when the referendum was proposed by the opposition, then by the Zares Group, because I felt that the question was one that would not give some real answers, some value to the lawmaker and, of course, to the legislator later on in the adoption of the laws. Later this changed a little bit and we actually wanted to ask people a little bit more about the number of landscapes and those issues that were written down at the time. In the introduction, as I have said, I have already opposed the referendum and I oppose it in contrast to the members of the government today. The referendum, I think, is completely out of line. We ask people if they want to live in their own country. The answers may or may not be expected. We'll see how people decide, who come to the referendum at all. Let me put it this way. I don't have much trouble with 14 provinces. It is known to all that I was signed twice under the proposal for the Savinja-Salech Region. It is also well known to all that, in my first reading, I supported the government proposal that the proposal for a law establishing the provinces be a suitable basis for further consideration. Of course, I wanted some changes that might even happen through the procedure, but most of them were not, and this law actually rumbled back on the government bench or into the hands of a minister who would have to prepare a new one. I don't have these problems with 14 provinces, and it would be very strange if I were to discuss against the province that I proposed and that I think I could do my job well. I don't have these problems and I don't need to be forced, I don't need to be blackmailed by the referendum, which is, of course, the purpose of this referendum. Reliablely, it is not the goal to obtain clear answers or to gain people’s will. Because it is illogical to expect very clear, uniform answers in this referendum. And when Mr Presecnik spoke of the Savinja-Salak region, let me also use this case. We will, of course, ask people within the Savinja-Salak region whether they are for the Savinja-Salak region. And now let me give you an example. Velenje decides that a number of other small municipalities are important for this province, while a number of smaller municipalities are important for this region and a number of smaller municipalities for this region, but the population is smaller than Velenje. And we have the answer because we are going to add them up in each congregation individually. In particular, we will count them within the referendum area. Then what are we going to do with these results? What will we do if, for example, people choose not to do so? It's just that if we take people's will into account, it's not. Then what are we going to have, the Savini province? Do we have an answer to this question, is this a real province? We're not going to ask the rest of the province of Savina if it's the country they want to live in. So we will certainly not get the answers to these questions in such a way that we can fully identify people's will. And, of course, here comes a different interpretation of the results. But for that we are skilled in this National Assembly. This has proved to be true several times. And people's will will will be overtaken again. Well, we're going to have a consultative referendum, as it all turns out, and we're going to have a consultation. We will consult with those who have the right to vote. So, with the electorate and the electorate. And we will consult one day, of course, at their expense. We'll ask them what they think. Of course, they will have to pay for this from the taxpayer’s money. And when this account is settled, we will tell them that their will is desirable, but we cannot exactly translate it into legislation, as it did in the establishment of the congregations. It's gonna happen again. We're going to get out of our hands, and we're going to do it all on every side and without a real goal. Well, it's very difficult for us to succeed in this referendum. And like I said. I was against the referendum in January, and I'm also against the referendum in May or June when it's supposed to be done. But with this difference, if we did it in February, so when the proposal was made, we would get some answers that might even be translated into legislation by the September elections. Now, a month before the last session of Parliament, of course, this is of no particular value, given that it will be very difficult to determine the results with which we will be able to figure out what people actually want. Well, the reasons for not having a referendum are more than enough. There will probably be more to be done in adopting provincial legislation and establishing landscapes than in the past. But not the way you do it. As you do, you will slowly convince me that I did not do the right thing in January. Instead of getting someone else to support the province's legislation. And when we talk about development differences, that is all I want to say, of course, with all the praise that we are giving to the current political authorities, let us forget that this political authority is also responsible for this. We're saying everything's fine. At the same time, we find that developmental differences continue to grow. Even in recent years, these differences have been growing, which should be addressed. And we've changed the Law on Better Regional Development. There we wanted to add two development regions to it, and the coalition did not say so. There are 12 statistics left, and we haven't changed them to 14. And another interesting thing. It is certainly justified to speak of congregations as agents of development. The municipalities justified their existence. Perhaps not to the extent or number that we have established. Perhaps a smaller number is more real, and perhaps it will eventually happen when we assess that the development potential within individual local communities has been exploited and that there is a need to pool power in the future. But that's what I'm trying to tell you. This is the essence of talking about the developmental differences and the role of the municipality in this development, I would like to point out that the biggest developmental differences or the biggest developmental setbacks are where Slovenia is most fragmented into municipalities. If you look at the Slovenian map of municipalities and look at where the fragmentation is the largest, and if you compare it with the development of these regions - you can also call them statistical ones, you will find that the development backlog is the largest where the largest municipalities are. So, arguments don't stand for one serious judgment. As I said in the introduction, I will support the amendment to move from 22 to 29 in the hope that another agreement can be reached. It's true that hope dies last. But hope also dies. Maybe not today. But I think that, given the experience I have with this government coalition, this will certainly happen in one way or another. In fact, I wanted to say above all that I am opposed to the referendum and this is nothing new.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I will say a few words about the referendum and the amendment to this question, in terms of assessing that it is the best thing we can do under this agenda item, to support the amendment. That's what I'm saying for myself. I say this in particular and explicitly because some continue to mix individuals with the parliamentary group and with the parties. But today, too, I said before that Members of the DeSUS Group speak and decide on their own conscience and those who continue to say that at night the coalition voted eight, seven say false statements. The party DeSUS was not in Parliament at night and did not vote. The DeSUS delegation was not in Parliament and did not vote. One Member who had the right to vote on his own initiative voted. If I were to sit in this Chamber at that time, I would have voted differently than this Member sitting there. And if Mr Žnidaršič had sat there, he would have voted differently than that Member, who had the right to vote on his conscience. Therefore, we ask that, at least for me and Mr Žnidaršič, we should not try to drown in this coalition referendum disaster. We want to be out of this. The second comment I would like to mention is a comment in relation to or not a comment, but it was the agreement between the party DeSUS and the delegation by the representative of the LDS. I don't know why he needed it. I don't know why he had to. I mean, he's really holding on to us so that we can think about each other on our own. That is also the way to vote. That's not why we're falling apart. Some other party, just the one who was scheming, was falling apart with a big roar, and in the end it even disintegrated. It almost smelled like it when she broke up. By asking them to leave those who do not touch them needlessly alone. My third comment on the discussion that was going on here is that some have really led things to absurdity. By talking - I am talking now a little more plastic - about the province of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. They've mixed things up so far. How will people who vote in the referendum believe such people? How will they believe them? How come they won't miss them cheating? I think that Slovenia and Slovenians are enough to think clearly, and that those who mix concepts like, say, the Republic of Germany and Baden Würtenberg will be the ones who mix concepts like, say, Baden Würtenberg and Bavarian province. And it all gets mixed up in one mess. Like Ljubljana, Belgrade, Montenegro and more, people will just overlook that these things interfere with them because they cannot think rationally. Those who cannot think rationally, I do not think that Slovenian voters and voters will believe.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Indeed, the opposition to the proposed referendum has already been presented, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, by a colleague of Cvet and a colleague of Paula. I would add my own vision in the light of what we have been experiencing and also observed by Slovenian mayors. At the beginning of this term, Slovenian mayors were invited to Ljubljana. Mr Janez Janša, Prime Minister of the Government, said in his initial address that we could be proud because we are mayors in the mandate in which regionalisation will take place in Slovenia. This is supposed to be a great honor, and that was also his decision and obviously what Prime Minister Janez Janša says he does. One way or another. All true soldiers know the way forward. Never step back. And this was also felt at the meeting of all the mayors when, before the vote in the National Assembly, we were invited again by all Slovenian mayors to Ljubljana, and so by the Ministry and by the President of the Government, we were told how important it is that the mayors are pressed from among us to press for regional legislation. And that it is in this barbecue to show how much and important work has been done in the drafting of the provincial legislation, Mr President said that there have been four circles, that ministries have shifted powers from state to regional level. Even four circles and yet his word, he eventually transferred some powers to the president and the minister himself. And this probably shows that it is not surprising that there are so many comments on the expertise of this proposal and that there are so many indications that good proposals and, above all, advice are not to be rushed by this legislation and introduction. Because I'm sure it won't be a step further. And at that time, we have experienced so much division, so much labelling and so much labelling as we have voted against development, against balanced development, against decentralisation, virtually as national publishers for our citizens and citizens. However, it must be made clear that all of us who have had the opportunity to vote in this National Assembly and all of us who are still here today are in favour of the provinces. Yet there are many of us who are not for the provinces as proposed and at the moment. And this difference is that citizens and citizens want to create this division, so that those who are in favour of development will confirm the regions. But whoever isn't will be against it. Therefore, there have been so many different comparisons during this period. And I'm sure it's very appropriate that this provincial legislation and this procedure are similar to that story about Caesar's new clothes. And I am sure that this research referendum, where so much money will be wasted needlessly, will show that many will only shout out loud and say that at this point the emperor is naked. And that such legislation is not good. And I am equally convinced that asking people whether they want to live in their own country is inappropriate. It is even offensive to our inhabitants and residents. As it is, I am sure that the question that the Minister has asked today can be marked as a perverse question, that it is right to ask Ljubljana whether it wants to be the capital or whether it wants to be European comparable. When this government took so much money in Ljubljana at the beginning of its mandate that it could become a real European capital even faster. That is why I will also vote against the referendum. But I will support the transfer amendment from June 21st to June 29th.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! I myself support all procedures leading to the establishment of the provinces. Why? Because the provinces need to be established. As the developmental differences between parts of Slovenia are increasing and increasing. Because such landscapes as are now envisioned, it is a substantive project. This means that the delegation of powers, resources and also personnel, of those powers coming from the country to the provincial level, and of course this is the content for me. I saw this project for myself as a content project. Much less political, even though it is established by politics. That's right. But that's why I support him. Because I know this project is substantive. Why don't we ask people about it? I'm not afraid of people. And if she's positive, I'll try to respect her if she's negative, and I'll try to respect her. If we draw some parallels between the establishment of a congregation and a province. Does it not seem to those who oppose such a referendum question unwise to ask, say, for the establishment of a congregation somewhere at the Styrian Center in Ljubljana and ask if they are for one congregation in Styria? That doesn't make sense. It is necessary to ask those who belong to that congregation. The parallel to the landscape is exactly the same. I come from Posavje. Why not ask the Posavius whether they are for the establishment of Posavia? And let them decide whether they're in or out. If they are in favor, then it is also our moral duty in this National Assembly or our next call for this will to be realized. And I really don't see any issue at this point if we ask people and ask them about their will. Of course, if we support this, that it is not a policy, but that it is a substantive project, it has an even greater weight. And I think people are going to make the right decision, and let them decide one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u60	A beautiful holiday greeting to all present in the hall! For today is a great festival commanded by the church. For those of you who may not know. On the other hand, I regret that we have failed to reach an agreement and an appropriate solution for the provinces here in the National Assembly. I think that it is not good and it is not right to place this decision on citizens and citizens. This is due mainly to the poor experience we have experienced when the National Assembly so easily overturned the referendum decision on Sunday’s trade. Only New Slovenia then respected the will of voters. For Slovenia, more coherent regional development is important. The Koroška region, including the Savinja-Shale region, with or without the provinces. But I also wanted to tell Mr Gantar, who is not here, not to worry about New Slovenia. Tosev and Daminović's polls always predicted a very poor result, which was in fact a different one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! In general, my position on the referendums is quite clear: I am not in favour of them and I am against them. Simply because we had elections in 2004 and we got 90 members of the National Assembly to decide for them about the things they were sent to this National Assembly. That's what I said in January. That's what I'm saying right now, and I'm going to keep going, and I think it's my personal position completely in place. However, this referendum was conditioned by the opposition in January. She demanded a referendum to ask citizens about this and that. She demanded fewer provinces. She demanded the capital. All of this is what the coalition in some way wants to bring the opposition closer to it, but this important project will come to an end. And when we get to that point, we go back and we say, no, but now not the referendum, it's not good, because that's not necessary, because we're wasting the taxpayer's money because it's this and that and that. How can a citizen understand what we want with these unfortunate provinces in Slovenia?Oh, my God! I'm afraid we don't know. A lot of people don't know that much. So much of the misunderstanding of this landscape thing that someone used to be for today is against and doesn't know if someone is saying, "Yes, but I won't respect people's will." That's your call. I know you won't respect her. But one fundamental thing about democracy is that we also respect people's will. I try to do so in every kind of proposed law in the National Assembly. I also ask such and other citizens, citizens: what do you think of this? And believe me, I get a lot of good and useful directions every day from these people, but what's good is better than that. But I'm sorry. I think the coalition is responsible for this mandate. Definitely. And this government is trying to do everything, even though some of you say, "Too late, it's not the right time before the elections." We've wanted this very much before, colleagues and colleagues. That's pretty much it! But unfortunately, it's stuck. Remember those 14 days before the decision in the National Assembly when some made a pact - No! We won't have any provinces! Not why not, not content, not funding, not one or the other, but mainly - NO! And now we're talking about this or that. And when the coalition has decided to ask for an initiative, I will say, the January referendum of the opposition, and the citizens will not - what will the citizens decide about it?Oh, my God! Yeah, I don't know what you want in the final stages. I don't really, I just don't find the answers to your initiative. And so many strange contradictions between one and the other that one simply finds it difficult to digest. It's really hard to digest. But again, I think this debate here today shows, once again, this debate about the provinces, how we are too divided. And that bothers me so much. In such important subjects as this law, the one yesterday, the one before yesterday, if you want tomorrow's, especially the province's so great division. It pains me so much that in 2008 there are still so many differences between the block division, if you want, between those we want, who want, which also means nothing to you 210 mayors. It doesn't mean anything to you. The Association of Slovenian Municipalities, the Community of Municipalities means nothing to you. Nothing means the State Council, nothing means this institution, which I believe we know very well what the provinces bring. They know very well. However, I agree with those that it is probably not so direct that it is not tanning citizens with what it brings. They really don't do much of this. And we need to understand them. They are not set to think about what will happen to the development of their congregation, their local communities, their future provinces. This is certainly a matter of mayors, municipal councils, regional development agencies and not least the National Assembly. And to make this thing. But I'm sure people will probably know how to make a decision. Because they can always decide what's good for their development. I'm sure we know what's good for us in Posavia. We know that we need a landscape of our own, that we already have a tourist region, which we well anticipate among the five municipalities, which through the regional development agency we can exercise our interests. We've got options. We can quickly unify what our priority is, and we have no problems. We see the same thing tomorrow with a much greater responsibility and greater power to decide what our opportunities will be. And here we see in Posavia for sure. I am sure that other regions have similar thoughts. And so do local officials there, saints, and so on what might be more than today. Simply because today it is not fair to citizens living outside the city of Ljubljana. It is not fair to those who fight substantially more for every piece of the national euro in that place that we have to acquire, and we want a more just, more balanced, more consistent Slovenia. This is the main and basic objective and certainly also responsible for future development. Today, more or less, we all make excuses to Ljubljana, to the Government, to the National Assembly, to a policy that still has a bad rating. Tomorrow, if we have the provinces, you will have to decide for yourselves about the provinces and also account for the people there about this or that development. And I think it's that basic message and how this story should develop. Polycentricity - what we're all talking about together - but in the end, centralism is still extremely strong in this country, it's extremely strong. Because you step together when you don't like the fact that any rights, powers, money will take you down a little bit from Ljubljana to the White Country, Posavje, Koroška and so on. And unfortunately, I think here I really regret these big differences in terms of thinking that Slovenia is just central Slovenia. It's not, gentlemen. There is something else in this country and we, too, respect the will of the people in this referendum, however they choose. The decision will certainly be the one that is at the will of the people. I don't think it's binding either. It is consultative and any serious and responsible politician anywhere or in opposition or position in my deep conviction should respect this will of the referendum of these people who will say: "I want to have Posavij or we do not want to have it. But if you Styrians and Primors speak of our Posavius, we will decide." And neither will we decide about Styria, Gorenski, Primorski, because we do not know the situation there, your goals and wishes there. Therefore, I think that such a protest against this, so much straining, so many unnecessary paths towards this goal, really, in general for the future of Slovenia is a little sad. I know that this will not achieve the goal of this Slovenia that we all want together. I think that, colleagues and colleagues, it's still an opportunity for retrials. Today is the first, at the June referendum there will be a second and later in the National Assembly there will be a third opportunity to bring this story to the best possible option, to establish the provinces together in this National Assembly. Along with you in the opposition, who you still doubt, who oppose this thing. Then there'll be no more chance, then there'll be a new term. It is likely that there will be another cycle that will be able to draw back one mandate, two mandates, and that Slovenia will not reach the provinces. But we all know together in the National Assembly that 210 municipalities, so many mayors and municipal councils. There's no map that'll be good for everyone. It doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. It doesn't exist, you can't put it in such a way that it's the best way to be to every mayor and municipality. But we also want to look for some compromises with this proposal 12 plus 1, which would draw closer to those main comments that have been the opposition in the first place all the time, the number, Ljubljana and also the referendum. And that's not it. That's what we say, it's not the right time, it's the elections, it's gonna cost too much. These arguments do not go together. I don't think it's right for us to talk like that. I will certainly respect people's will. I think that's the important thing. I believe that's what you'll do if they decide to do the same. But if the citizens say they don't want the provinces. Then, for example, ladies and gentlemen, let us finish the matter, finish the story and not mention any more landscapes in this mandate, and probably not in the coming term. I hope that this result will also apply to the future mandate of the Government and the National Assembly. Something's probably gonna work. Perhaps for experts, such and others, who see the landscapes differently than some do. I will not support this amendment because there is no special problem with it being moved. For we have already put these events too much into the time in which we are now. This could have been resolved prematurely by some understanding of one and the other, which was the ministry’s great wish. Last but not least there have been so many coordinations, there has been no discussion of this country's level of law so far. And that wasn't enough. Obviously, it is not enough because someone decides not to accept it, because it does not suit him for such and other reasons, in order to decentralise Slovenia. That's the main, crucial problem. And we have to admit that out loud. The ones you already know against why you say so. Because you probably have your own arguments, because maybe this isn't going to go away with a government that's going to have changes. It does not go well with some politicians who are simply making the top of central Slovenia and so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There's still time. There's still a chance we can do a correctional exam. Let us make it the best for a more friendly, balanced and more coherent Slovenia and for all the citizens who live here, not just the ideas of the privileged, which have become incredible in recent years. We talked about this in this National Assembly. I don't want to increase them yet, but I want to reduce them. But I want everything good to Ljubljana, my capital, to continue to develop successfully. But let us also develop Koroška, Posavije, White landscape and others.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Four months from now, there will be a state-run election. As some of the most politically exposed regions in the pre-election campaign are also supposed to be able to say otherwise than that the current authorities have also thought of a special referendum in conjunction, thereby ensuring free political agitation by means of the state budget. When the opposition proposed the same proposal in January, Prime Minister Janez Janša strongly opposed it. It doesn't matter whether the proposal is good or bad. It's important who proposes it. You still remember the famous river of one of the champions of Demos when he said, "It doesn't matter what he knows, it's important that he's ours." Moreover, the referendum is only of a consultative nature and is not binding on the legislator. It has only a political commitment, which is also of course very important. However, many times in the past, the will of humans has not been respected. Especially in connection with the establishment of municipalities in the 1990s. For example, after the current tape, the National Assembly established congregations, even though people in previous referendums voted against it. It can happen that we will literally throw the costs of a three-million-euro referendum out of the window. Even more so are the vague referendum issues and, following the end of the referendum, very possible complications with the interpretation of the results, as pointed out by the National Legislative and Legal Service. It would also be very interesting to analyse all coalition political experiments and the different versions of the referendum issue and the behaviour of individual coalition parties and their presidents, who have literally changed their views from day to day. If I paraphrase Dr. Igor Lukšić, then I can say that the coalition from Slovenia is working a battleground for fines, for public services, the division of budget spoils and inter-party divisiveness. If 13 new provinces will be only 13 new bureaucrat centres in the provinces without their own financial resources and entirely dependent on each ruling coalition, then we do not need such provinces in Slovenia. We need polycentric development. Not just another extra power center, where we will, say, go from Idria to pray and convince the Government at the provincial level in Novi Gorica that, for example, we urgently need a new home of pensioners or funds to secure the closure of the mine and to rehabilitate the environment burdened with mercury and radon. We need good and thoughtful provincial legislation, autonomous provincial financial resources and, above all, equal treatment of smaller centres or sub-regions within individual provinces. That is why we need more time than we have at our disposal today. Above all, we need a thorough debate and a confrontation of different views that will not be burdened by the upcoming national elections. If it is true what the President of the Government said a while ago that the establishment of the provinces is not a project of this government, it is a joint project of the whole of Slovenia, how can we then explain the behaviour of the coalition, that it forced a positive decision on the parent committee by means of a splintered majority, and that it is no longer interested in a wider consensus in the National Assembly. If it were the project of the whole of Slovenia and not just the government, then we would not be blackmailing in the pre-election heat with a referendum. If we had a sincere desire to ask people whether we set up provinces in Slovenia or not, then the referendum could be proposed substantially earlier. The province's legislation could also be dealt with in peace and thought, but not in the wake of obstruction of the opposition. Finally, this is not a project of the whole of Slovenia, nor of all members of the coalition, but a project of a broken majority in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Let me first call the leadership of the National Assembly to check what's going on in this hall, because we've been smelling an unpleasant smell for a few days. It's probably not that smell that burns out the plant. You smell like that when you get to the gym. Probably not the result of our consideration of the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia, which is more than, I will say, exaggerated in some parts. Believe me, yours and yours and our constituents will resent us. To what extent, however, depends, of course, on the results to be read and summed up this autumn. However, we must be aware that the establishment of the provinces is our joint project. It's not a coalition project. This is a project of the National Assembly, both coalition and opposition. When I looked at some of the electoral programmes in 2004 and especially in the part where many of us announced the establishment of the provinces both in the coalition and in the opposition, we will probably have to or we will be able to intercede from these programmes at least in the part where we wrote down in 2004, even in 2008 to establish the provinces. It needs the provinces of Slovenia. The provinces of Slovenia must have. And we are aware of that both in the coalition and in the opposition. I regret that in these many debates we have not been able to find a common language and bring some substantive changes to the laws, which would make work easier and, above all, reduce the time for consideration. And, of course, we have come into time distress by guessing, and if we have only begun with the establishment of the provinces, with the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and there we have received a great consensus that we have thus given the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the opportunity to prepare substantively appropriate legislation, then unfortunately, and perhaps also because of the stigma and conjecture, we must conclude this project in this mandate on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. What do we really want? We want to ask citizens and citizens to help us, as has been said here many times, from this mess or from this farce or whatever. But these are democratic processes, democratic procedures. I don't know why you call them that to help us here, to ask them what and how they think about the landscapes. And what we considered and concluded in the late hours of the night last night or early morning, supplemented by the Proposal for a Decision on the Call for a Consultative Referendum on the Areas and Names of the Regions in Slovenia and the status of the Municipality of Ljubljana. That's what we're going to ask voters and voters on June 22nd, and that's because we weren't that wise. We didn't know how to reconcile. We didn't know how to make a deal, and now we're going to ask them if they're up to it or not. Perhaps later, when we see the results, we will be united by what citizens and citizens will say, whether they want to establish the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u67	Mr Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. When we listened to the explanations of opposition colleagues, why they were against, we also heard a few around the congregations. That we are already too fragmented at the municipal level, that the congregations are too small to perform their functions and similar things. I must say, our Group of Members made a visit this year to at least 150 municipalities and we have seen many things. Even in small congregations that formerly lived on the outskirts, a number of positive developments took place after they were established. There's so much to see. Smaller congregations are also very advanced, reaching behind behind some of the former centers. But when they could not decide their own destiny, their own development, they were at the brink. Of course, some high-policy Members may not see these things because they are looking from this space, I do not know how all over Slovenia is. We who went to the field could see it. True, some congregations or many congregations or a large majority of congregations are not partial to certain tasks. These are major infrastructure-related projects, waste management, wastewater treatment, drinking water supply and similar things. These are major projects, long-term projects that some municipalities really cannot. Therefore, they cannot draw on the European funds available for these purposes. And for this reason, we offer a solution to the province to which these congregations would somehow be linked. They have been pooled to make use of all these resources that are being offered, and perhaps they have not been able to be financed or organized as a congregation. The other thing I would like to say is that one of my distinguished fellow Members from Styria mentioned that there are some strange processes going on in Styria, that some Styria Members are defending Styria in order to secure the post of president of the province and similar nonsense. And I have something to say. It would be good for a respected colleague to read a proposal for a law on the provinces where he speaks of the incompatibilities of certain functions. It clearly states that a Member cannot be the President of the Regional Council or the province. So it is not at all that the Styrian Members are cheering for the Styrian province in order to secure some functions. We are rooting because we want Styria to develop too, in order to reduce this backlog for the Central-Slovenian province or for others. Because the indicators are not so favorable that they can be satisfied. Perhaps it is true that that Member, which points to this possibility, is counting on the fact that in the next elections it will no longer be elected and it will be necessary to provide another place, of course, in as large a region as possible, that this will also be an important function and, if possible, it would be a "mega Styrian province" where it could also be joined by Pomurje, Koroška, of course, with its seat in Maribor and then everyone would be pleased. Of course, I will continue to support this regionalisation of Slovenia and listen with great attention to the opinion of citizens and citizens who will express their opinion at the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Zupan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I must admit, there is no victory in this hall. Before that, we can feel a certain relief from at least part of the Members, because we have passed through long-term negotiations to the point where we can make a certain decision. Time was not our ally, interests were very different. The variant was too much. Today we will decide on the Decision on the call for an advisory referendum. I will support the ruling myself because I believe that agreement has been reached. Although I would like a much broader one, which gives me the opportunity to take the next step. I would like to say, however, that I see this point that we have reached as a further starting point for discussions and negotiations. In order to achieve greater consensus and to take into account two elements: Ljubljana as a single province and the Central Slovenian region, which is opposed by many to becoming a model for other regions. In this way we could achieve a smaller number of regions, which we have already tried to achieve in Novi Slovenija. Notranjska, the Notranj people will not get their own region. We're too few. Nobody's ever promised us anything. We are aware that with our work, our knowledge and the conditions that the country can and must create, together with others in the Central Slovenian region, we will have to work to reduce development differences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u72	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. I am absolutely in favour of the consultative referendum on the provinces, which is supposed to be on 22 June. For I believe that this is an extremely important issue in which, in fact, every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia is involved. No matter how intensely he deals with this problem. Since those of the opposition species who initially supported this project have then miraculously withdrawn from this project, given that they have withdrawn, after a regular process we have failed to do so in the National Assembly, of course it is only right to ask citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia about this important issue. However, I must say that I am very concerned when there is no consensus on such issues within the opposition and the coalition. But that's what we're used to. The Social Democrats, however, supported the change of constitution. So we could start these procedures on the landscapes. But now they've kind of retreated. They're probably influenced by a little bit by pre-election time. I don't know who'd blame them! Similarly, there is another very important issue. We're used to this, for example, at the Euro-Mediterranean University. We all know that this project, for example, supports 39 countries. It is extremely important for Slovenia, for its nationality, for everything that belongs to higher education issues. But the Social Democrats, for example, have previously supported this with great enthusiasm. Today this project is actually opposed by the fact that they do not want to give some legal basis so that they can do so. Let me get back to the landscape referendum. I am confident that there is probably no resident of this country who would not want better development within the region in which he lives. And this is what some people are trying to challenge, and in fact, you don't want some issues that improve people's standard of living to actually be met. I am convinced that decentralisation and, above all, the introduction of landscapes could make a significant contribution, at least in some segments, to the improvement of some, including the financial situation of people in certain regions. For I must be aware that not all the provinces are as rich or as well-standing as, for example, Ljubljana and so on. It could focus on the referendum issue, which relates to the area of Primorska. There was a lot of controversy in the media about whether it was a single Primorska or two regions. It is called Northern Primorska, South Primorska or Goriška, but an even bigger question is what name if there were two regions. It is said that it would remain South Primorska and then either Goriška or Northern Primorska. I am of the opinion that it is difficult for us to decide this issue on our own. It is therefore right that the consultation referendum allows people to decide on their name. In fact, it is they who live in that area and know exactly how they breathe and what a name means to them. Even in the historical sense or cultural. It bothers me, however, if a cultural ideological struggle is deliberately placed in the public. Over and over again under the pretense that it's a common Primorska, just like it was in history. We are all aware that the Primors have always been very conscious and very unified when it comes to questions. I'm sure they'll know each other properly and wisely in this case, too. Of course, we have to give them that option. I said before that it is true that not every region is so well-developed, it does not have such conditions for Goriška or for Northern Primorska. The way people decide, we'll see June 22nd for a name. It is certainly significant that it has good economic indicators that it has a better education structure than Slovenia on average. The rate of registration of unemployment in this region is also below average. However, I am confident, and we should all look at it, even in the opposition, so that this region, like the rest, if it were to become an independent province, could show even better and higher results over the years. That is why I am absolutely in favour of this referendum, and I am sure that those who go to the referendum will be able to make the right decision. 'Cause I'm pretty sure that's the kind of country they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. When we talk about the provinces, we are primarily talking about trying to dismantle the existing state system and the functioning of the country as such. And we do this in such a way that, in fact, those laws that define specific areas of how we are supposed to function are voted out only by the majority provided by the coalition. However, it does not respect all the warnings we give under the Constitution that it is necessary to think very carefully about every area before we finally decide how we will break it down and how this can actually work. It seems particularly irresponsible to me that we are talking about the provinces at the end of a mandate. Especially in the fact that, in fact, we are facing an ever-increasing debt of the country in this mandate and that we are facing a very large problem of inflation. Tomorrow, when the provinces are about to come to life, the next thing that happens is that suddenly Ljubljana will be gone, where, say, he took the money to move to other places. Suddenly, there will be no more highway funds, which has also been redistributed for other purposes. And not only for roads, but also for other needs defined by the government. And last but not least, the defense has been taken. As we recall, the budget we have adopted has been very much affected in this area, despite the fact that it has always been ensured that we must respect the starting points and obligations that we have actually outlined by joining NATO. Tomorrow, when the country is divided into provinces, these options will be no more. We know, however, that the fiscal framework for the functioning of the provinces and for the country is exactly the same as it is today. There are no new financial resources to justify the fact that we will reduce development differences if the provinces are established. The funds are practically as available as we have them today. This is a key question when we talk about the landscapes, whether they really bring development or bring additional public consumption in such a way, with the content of the law, such as these, and in the procedure in the National Assembly. So these are the key questions that my colleagues from the Social Democrats are always reminding us whether and how to approach and when to approach the establishment of the provinces. However, I would also like to raise another particular question. What kind of authority are these provinces supposed to have? If we know that after this proposal, when we talk about this referendum issue, there are only five congregations in one province of 37, in the other. How will we define the powers and tasks of the provinces so that they can guarantee development equally and evenly in all areas that the provinces are supposed to carry out? So far, I have not received an answer as to how a province with five municipalities will be able to successfully form a university and organise exactly what the province is supposed to provide for these tasks. And if I point out only one fact, which also relates to the construction of hydroelectric power plants and to the funds allocated to hydroelectric power plants from the water fund. Water fund or water refund is also expected to be a new source of landscapes. So this very important question will have to be raised, how will we complete the construction of the Sava hydroelectric power plant chain if the funds of the water fund are transferred to the provinces. Will, for example, Comrade Janc, Posavije still use his part of the water fund to build hydroelectric power plants? I think that you can still get a hiccup from the country that finances this important project and there are no problems in developing this part of Slovenia. So that a whole series of questions are truly open, inconclusive, and so on, the adoption of such difficult legislation that breaks down the country and puts it at a completely new starting point is not serious. It is particularly not serious that we are actually using this issue through the creation of referendum issues in individual provinces, which the coalition is supposed to propose that these are the landscapes that are by measure human beings. Far from it. I am very interested in how we can define a common interest and reach consensus in the Central Slovenian province, ranging from the southern border to the northern border. And again and again I wonder how and what will happen to the provinces if in central Slovenia the referendum fails or what at the moment, if in any province the referendum fails? Will we establish the provinces then only where the referendums have succeeded, where they are not, the province will not be? Unfortunately, this is not possible in practice. However, this is a very important and open question, which I believe will happen right in the area of central Slovenia. If we are already talking about reducing differences, then the government should calculate where those development needs are, where are those developmental differences that actually arise in practice and in the field. And on the basis of this try to form then and the number of landscapes and competences and mechanisms to reduce these differences. Unfortunately, these provinces don't reflect that. Far from it. How will one central Slovenia, as now proposed, reduce the differences in the southern part of Slovenia? I keep asking that question. Why can't the southern part of Slovenia have its own landscape? Because we could very clearly calculate that the biggest developmental differences between all the regions proposed are between southern Slovenia and all others. But the government does not even want to calculate the development index in this area, because it knows that it should actually take decisive mechanisms to reduce these development differences in the southern part of Slovenia. But he doesn't want to do that. He's looking for solutions in central Slovenia. He is looking for solutions in, say, a large southeast Slovenia or in the Dolenj region. Unfortunately, however, the southern part of Slovenia is always missing as the part that obviously does not interest this country. Or he thinks he's so developed that he doesn't need this development aid. And this is a key issue that this referendum does not resolve, and I do not see any reason why, let's say, in Kočev, we decide that we are for this province, for the Central Slovenian province. No reason at all. She'll bring more trouble. You can talk to the Ministry today, talk to the country like that. Tomorrow with a country that, you don't even know how much money she'll have to carry out her developmental tasks. And I stress that in Ljubljana it will no longer be possible to take motorways. It won't be possible to take any more. However, it will be necessary to repay the loans. That's what's gonna There are no new sources with which to manage all these situations, but there is no such thing as provincial legislation. And one of the important questions I've always raised is: How are we going to maintain and build major state roads in the provinces? Everything except highways and fast roads becomes the jurisdiction of the provinces. Where is the source so that we can successfully update and build a road network that will compare us with those who have, say, fast and freeways. Third development axis, third development axis, fourth development axis. These are the axes that don't have the resources. They don't have resources today. They'll have fewer tomorrow. But the country will take this problem to the provinces and say, "I'm sorry. Then you are responsible for your development and build your developmental axes." From where, I ask you. And that's the key problem. Because this legislation does not provide concrete resources, concrete solutions for those areas that are far more developed are undeveloped. These development axes relate specifically to these areas. If we had the answer that we have the funds for the third development axis, the fourth development axis, the third development axis through the provincial legislation, then I would believe that we are reducing development differences in Slovenia. But this moment, at least as far as I know, there was no such answer in Parliament. And while he is gone, it is not serious to talk about establishing the provinces in the same number as we establish them. And according to the number or size of the landscapes. If one province can be composed of five municipalities, then I see no reason why we should not have 25 provinces in Slovenia. It's a comparability. Then the powers in these provinces and the tasks that the provinces can actually carry out. But if we talk about a province with 37 congregations. One of them has five, and it is not possible to draw up a central legislation to say what the province should have in its competence and what its original task should be to make the performance of the tasks comparable to that of all the other provinces. Even so, in some key decisions, when we talk, say, about introducing editors and controlling road traffic, we cannot agree whether this is a good solution or not that this issue will be intertwined somewhere. There's no way out of this. It's about unanimity solutions, inconsistent solutions. And, of course, it is not possible to support such provincial legislation and such issues as are on the agenda today. That is why I will not support this referendum question or decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u75	Thank you. Before I give you my word, allow me to explain why there was some smell in the back of the hall. In fact, it was the smell of sheet cutting that spread through the air ducts from the basement. But the work ended three hours ago, and now we're waiting for it to turn to air. Mr. Scholch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr President, first of all, I would have a procedural proposal. That's why I raised my hand earlier. I would like you to cancel the meeting for a simple reason for 10 minutes, because we cannot obtain an important document from Mr Jazbec and the Commission services. From Mr Rezman's performance, we concluded that the member who was sitting in DeSUS yesterday did not represent DeSUS. But you know that these committees or committees are made up of individual cities belonging to parliamentary groups. The groups of Members shall propose names and shall then, on behalf of the groups of Members, represent their or the positions of the groups of Members. First of all, it indicated that this mandate that Mr Klavor should have could easily be obtained. But we cannot get an insight into this mandate, and we conclude from Mr Rezman's performance that perhaps Mr Klavora did not have a valid mandate. We'd like to know, Mr. Janc, what's with this mandate. For this also depends on further discussion. Mr. Jazbec just said he didn't want to give it to us. I think we are entitled to take a look at this mandate. And that really depends on the regularity of voting at yesterday's session. I request a 10-minute recess and assistance with this document.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u77	Thank you. I think your concerns may or may not be in place. I don't know. Talk to the chairman of the committee. The report we received is sufficient for further consideration in the National Assembly. But you also have a word on the subject that we are dealing with. Do you want to discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Of course, I also want to discuss it. However, I would like to say that there is a thesis that, if Mr Klavora did not have the appropriate authority, he could not vote. From this point of view, the report we have received is also questionable. Thus, for the first time that we cannot look into the public documents of a commission or committee and more than this will be delayed, it will be more doubtful that someone other than Mr Žnidaršič, who was here yesterday, could have signed this authorisation or otherwise put it into circulation. But anyway. The supplement we are discussing is about moving the date for a week. We support this supplement. We support him because a week later we could open up to citizens and citizens another question: What to do with this famous Kosovo anti-corruption commission? This is the background of this proposal. So I'm also going to talk a little bit about these issues, so that things will be much clearer. The debate on these anti-corruption bodies is also a debate that burdens the National Assembly throughout this mandate. The views are different. And it would be more appropriate for people to ask whether they agree with this - I simplify - that this Kosovo anti-corruption commission, as it is conceived, should be abolished and replaced by all these other spells proposed by the coalition. Why is that important, Mr. President? Today, we have read among others that this anti-corruption commission is indeed a thorn in this coalition's fifth. You can read in the newspaper that according to their reports, senior police officials have prevented an investigation into the possible abuse of the wife of Minister Rupl regarding the use of funds available to the minister. You will remember that you yourself have prevented me from discussing this at any committee or committee, and you have left me to the other officers of your party to fight with them to put this point on the agenda. However, it has never been placed on the agenda of the Committee on Foreign Policy, it has always been a matter of foreign ministry activities, it has always been a matter of using the official vehicles of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it has always been a matter of brooms, you are right - and the drivers of the foreign ministry who served not the foreign minister, but his husbands. That was in Ljubljana, if you don't know where the foreign ministry is. Because we are talking about having a proposal to change the date, which would also open this obviously painful question for you. These things were obviously under some kind of police investigation. They were under the care of this committee. We have now received a report that senior police officials have prevented this from happening because it is supposed to be a material damage, this process of clearing up what was really going on. Why am I saying this? Because there are a number of other situations where it turns out that the independent authorities are pretty much in the way of your coalition. And because you don't want to hear in the referendum that people support independent authorities to study the suspicions of corruption by state officials. In this respect, it is appropriate to support this date. From this point of view, this is also a step that would also oblige the opposition to seek greater agreement on the issue of the provinces. As far as these areas are concerned, I doubt that this will be accepted. Based on what we listened to at night. And I'll say early in the morning. But in fact, we need to ask ourselves what the effect of this referendum will be. I would have hoped to conclude that he was not significantly greater than the one who asked for the prudence or justification of Sunday’s work. That's where we learned people's will. And there the coalition has done nothing for four years to reduce Sunday's work. The trade unions say that Sunday's work is even more today, that things are not arranged and that unfortunately this referendum has not improved the situation of workers and workers in any way. He didn't even bring them to families anymore, and he obviously didn't bring them to mass, which was one of the arguments at the time. I am therefore afraid that the referendum can produce a series of answers that can be contradictory. But the time for the adoption of laws that would legitimize this provincial law will be no more. What is already quite clear is that this is a referendum that will not end with the adoption of the law, but with some wasteful and not even an expertly prepared survey. Because if we wanted to know what people thought of themselves, given the status and opportunities that we have later, it would be more meaningful to carry out serious field studies and surveys. You can also arrange services that you trust with them more than those who have been researching public opinion for decades. We would save a lot of money and a political dispute would be significantly less. In these cases, the extent to which the division of Slovenia affects development would also indicate that there is no convincing evidence that the division into the provinces would lead to greater development options. Today, by the way, it has already been said that where the division of congregations was the most expensive, where the municipalities were the smallest, it is said that where you think the local self-government was the closest to people, development is also the smallest. And what's more, it's true to say that the establishment of municipalities, if you look at them, did not contribute to reducing the differences, these development differences in Slovenia. That's why it's quite demagogic and for the hair attracts an argument. It is true, however, that the separation of municipalities and clearly so-called regionalisation means the possibility of further redistribution of money according to political criteria. Well, that's certainly controversial. For if it has now been speculated between large and small municipalities, among the rich and poor, where criteria have always been found that a certain type of municipalities could be favoured, the criteria for redistribution will now be further blurred, I will say, and politics will have much more manoeuvre. To contribute to the development, I don't believe it. Therefore, if this amendment that moves the referendum a week later is not supported, we will not support this unnecessary referendum, which will not lead to the regions. Mr President, I ask you, however, because Mr Jazbec has now heard this publicly to give us an insight into this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Juban has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm among those who keep saying I'm for the provinces. I don't care if it's eight, ten, twelve, thirteen or fourteen. I also hope to say out loud that Mr Minister has made a great deal of effort to see something happen here. Unfortunately, however, I do not agree with his presentation regarding today's decision, which is a decree on the referendum invitation, where we repeatedly say that we need the provinces, that this is the reason for this decision, that there are no financial consequences, which is not at all true. They're big before this referendum and they're going to be what people are going to decide. I will now say this for the third time in this Parliament or in this debate on this subject. And so far, no one has been able to answer me what it will be like when people decide. In view of time, I will limit myself to the pomur part, where we have three questions; Pomurska, in brackets [[Pleško-Prekmurska]] and then the third option [[Prekmursko-Pleška]] . And then, of course, when it comes to the outcome, which is determined for the whole area and especially for the areas of individual municipalities. What happens when people say yes or no about all three options? Who will be chosen or what will happen to those where individual congregations decide whether they are in favor or against. For example, the entire pomurice area, which is a suitable term somewhere, because there is another part of Prlekija, which is not Prekmurje or Prleki. But let's just keep this in mind for someone else. In order to decide that in this variant where Prekmurje is mentioned, Prlekija. Everyone else has decided on Pomurje. What will we do with this congregation’s decision? I'll say they can put them on their hats, because nothing will happen on the basis that all Prekmurje-Prleki will decide the variant of Prekmurje-Prleki and the other Pomurje will say Pomurje. We are already talking about that the Commission will decide once again to amend this decree, which will be otherwise recorded on the vote in referendum and that the National Assembly will then finally take a decision at the referendum. And I expected that this famous commission, which took place at night, would at least purge it so far that we would have only one option and we should have so much courage that, I am not saying anything else to say whether it is the central Styria or the Maribor region and not that we have people as fools and offer them three variants in one decision together. And the interpretation of the result will be pure political manipulation and it is possible to change the formula, the methodology for interpreting the political result again with a certain majority, which today is present in a strange way. And I don't understand the colleagues who are against the fact that the referendum is being signed, but they vote over and over and over again. And that's except for the SDS, where they're in charge. Everyone else is against it, but they're voting for it. In addition to the complications we have with DeSUS, the situation here at this point is a little frightening. What am I gonna tell people tomorrow what they're gonna decide? You're forcing me to say that they're gonna decide what to do. Mr. Minister, take the floor and assure me that I am wrong, I can.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Actually, I was going to give up today's debate, but there are some things I'd like to say. Two hours ago, however, a colleague from Juban proposed that the President should put to the vote, but that we should stop the debate and vote on the resolution as soon as possible, on the referendum. In the meantime, I also received quite a few calls from citizens whose content was approximately this: "Dear Members and Members, if together the coalition and opposition, if you are unable to decide about the provinces, if you are unable to finish a project that is so important to the country of Slovenia, which brings a new impetus, new development to the provinces that bring decentralisation, then please stop discussing that you stop talking and let us decide that we are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to tell us what we think about the provinces." That's why I stopped by and wanted to say it. The debate itself today was the one that was squirming over the referendum decree, on the spot. Unfortunately, however, we went back to discussing the tasks of the provinces, the role of the provinces, the jurisdiction of the provinces. Look, some of you have obstructed the handling of such important content. And I don't think it's good and it's also not right that we're actually going back today and we're discussing these issues. We've had so much discussion about the provinces. And as much effort as the Ministry of Local Self-Government, headed by Minister Ivan Žagar, has invested in these provinces. I really don't think we have any help. And as citizens say, stop talking, stop discussing if you are unable to carry out the most important project of this mandate. Then let us decide. And that is why, of course, I will support the referendum decree. And it's only right that we all support him, that we basically support him and let people tell him. In the final stage, because when we talk about whether the referendum question is right or not, of course, it is true, I am sure it is the right one. Someone in Gorenjska, in Jesenica doesn't really care how many provinces we have in Slovenia. Above all, he asked whether the new province, in which case Gorenska would bring greater quality of life to that citizen, which could bring more and more rapid development of the provinces. And I am sure that, after all, we have a very good experience in setting up congregations. In small congregations, there has been a great development. And small municipalities have brought development and also partial decentralisation. And I'm sure it can happen in the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Let me just say it first. Given that Mr Prevc mentioned Jesenice, if you're talking about the Jesenicas and the Jesenićs, they'd rather have the Upper Horn region. And in the Jesenicas, they have been cheering for Jesenice to be a city congregation ever since we went into reform of local self - government. And they didn't do it either. So we can talk about it. It has been heard many times today, and I agree with this referendum and such a referendum and on such referendum issues as human manipulation. I'd add, it's true. It's also about making fun of people. Because questions are raised so that people will in fact not ultimately decide on anything. This government coalition is only giving them the opportunity to graciously confirm what the current ruling coalition has envisioned for a few months. But she imagined all of this by not taking into account the profession's views again, not hearing arguments about irrational costs, not hearing objections to excessive new bureaucracy and so on. The ruling coalition says that just such provinces and just as many provinces will allow for further, faster and evener development of Slovenia. In fact, no firm assurance has been provided so far for such claims. The ruling coalition also argues that such a number of provinces will contribute even more to the decentralisation of Slovenia. Really? In fact, it's the realization of the political saying, "Do and rule!" It will be easier to manipulate the weaker, fragmented provinces. It will be even easier to manipulate 500 and more new provincial officials, which will also make it easier to turn others against others. There is no way to ignore the fact that political party interruptions will also take place in provincial forums. As today, it is clear that more is being drawn to the congregations, whose heads are mostly politically compatible. The road is paved more, the school is restored more, more apartments are built and so on. It is also clear today that more rapid and evener development will take place in those lands that will be headed by our people. So politically compatible and adequately politically loyal. Do I speak my mind? No, no, no. Let me remind you that the current Government of Ljubljana has withdrawn EUR 60 million as soon as the mayor has been elected by a politically incompatible person and, of course, by such a city council. It is interesting that it came into the government's proposal at night and also between this referendum question addressed to the people of Ljubljana: Are you in favour of the City Municipality of Ljubljana getting the status of the province without the municipalities? For example, what would make sense? I can't explain this to myself differently, not to mention that this issue is completely different from all the rest of the questions referred to in the referendum. That this is actually about lowering the level of autonomy and autonomy of the Municipality of Ljubljana in its decisions. Can you imagine, the Municipality of Ljubljana or the city council will decide on a project in Ljubljana and the provincial council will decide on another project which will be contrary to this first? So, at least what we see here is one big mess. And it seems to me that this is exactly the fact that this issue has come and this idea of the city of Ljubljana alone as a province overnight. I also see one big manipulation in this. And I take it you don't think, colleagues and colleagues, that it's just a case that this government doesn't agree that the new provinces would still have their own significant original, financial resources? Of course, that's clear, too. But I hope you're not still counting on you to form the next government. But if you're going to regret it, then you've installed a system error here so that the provincial officials will go back to this government to beg for money and for projects. Of course, I cannot agree to such a reform of this provincial legislation, or those that we were among the first to sign - hand-to-heart - on the initiative to change the Constitution and to implement this regionalisation of Slovenia, we did not have in mind such provinces, where the principle of "Shall and rule" would be politically enforced again. But we really thought that this was a second level of local self-government, which must be implemented as well as established throughout Europe, where we speak and record over and over again that we are meant for ourselves. Therefore, this referendum will certainly not give an answer to all these questions. And that's why I'm sure this referendum is pointless. But when you get so warm about it, let's ask people to tell us how and what. Then you won't be avoiding the other referendum we're proposing. By the way, are they people for abolishing the anti-corruption commission? And I'm guessing you're not going to argue that one week of time in which you would postpone this referendum decision on the basis of our amendment means such a huge obstacle that you can't land on it. So let's ask people about the other one. Let them say, given how you swear to the referendums, let them say what they think of each other. However, I think that recent events, just in the last few days, will make it essential for people to know about the other issue as well. Like you, of course, do not doubt that we would not know about this first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Bručan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u86	Mr President, Mr Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate seems very important to me. In fact, I think that the proposal for a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum should be adopted, supported for several reasons. At the beginning of this debate, I find it strange or perhaps quite normal on the other hand - who opposes this referendum and who opposes the provinces. This is the same model of opposition that has been repeated for some time or many times. At least for the third time. First time. These are the same people who opposed the independence of Slovenia and then at the last minute switched on the appropriate train. And of course the same people who said at the time that we would eat grass, how bad it would be for us - and today Slovenia is a relatively rich country in the European Union, in NATO. He even presides over the European Union. The same people, the same group, were very opposed to numerous municipalities in Slovenia. Later, it turned out that these congregations that were formed at the time had proved to be very successful. They made rapid progress, and that is exactly the number of congregations that is one of the reasons why this is the case in the congregations. As a member group, we now visit the municipalities in Slovenia. I must say that we can see that progress in recent years has been enormous in these municipalities at the expense of their independence and decision-making. And today when we talk about the provinces - again the same model, once again the same opposition without clear reasons, just in mind, without tail and head, just so that the goal that was set at the beginning of this government's mandate and this coalition would not be realized. This is to avoid achieving the objective of allowing Slovenia to develop more rapidly at the expense of regionalisation. Of course, this is actually a little unusual. After all, those who observe us and who know what is going on in the organization see this. This somehow does not in any way benefit those who are against regionalisation. That's not what I'm worried about. I am more concerned that this group, which opposes regionalisation, the development of landscapes in Slovenia, somehow does not work for the benefit of the population. And that's what's worrying. And that will concern voters and residents as well. You're telling us it's just some pre-election move. To use this referendum for pre-election propaganda, a campaign. This campaign, if that were true, is also possible for you at this time. Use it, too, if we do. But I'm sure it's not a pre-election campaign. That it is a real situation to help Slovenia in faster development. We could talk about Ljubljana. Of course, the reason we withdrew some huge sum of money during the term of this government was because Mayor Jankovic was elected. Of course, it's a perfect invention. This was decided substantially before the elections in Ljubljana were even held. To conclude only two more sentences relating to health in the context of regionalisation. I am sure that regionalisation will make great progress for Slovenia in the field of health. Regional hospitals are foreseen in all their size. Ljubljana will also force her to receive a regional hospital in the final stages, as appropriate. What has been said for the last 15 years is very difficult to implement in the system that currently exists in Slovenia in the field of secondary health care. I personally believe that primary health is also an area that should be regulated in the future. Unfortunately, at this point it was not possible to reach consensus legislation. But sooner or later, there will be such a conclusion, and such a overlookation, which at this stage, unfortunately, has not been possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. So what I find very interesting in this debate is that, if I recall correctly, Dr Cyril Ribičič was the first to discuss the provinces in this country. Since then, this debate on provincialisation has taken place in the Slovenian public. Today, when we actually come to this, those of the same parties, whose or who belong to them, are so vehemently opposed. Otherwise, I myself agree that this problem would be solved here in this National Assembly. And I'm not very fond of asking people about it at the referendum. I don't know how people imagine that. Probably like us. One like that, another like that. Those who support left-wing political options, just as the left-wing says. The one on the right and the one on the right. So, we brought some confusion into this Slovenian political space. And that will be the result. He can't be different. The only thing that seems to me, what we can expect, and the information we will get, is how many people will attend this referendum. How interested are people in making their own decisions? This will be the only thing I think is the highest added value to this referendum. We should be making this decision here in this National Assembly. And it all looked from there on out when the Constitution changed, that's how it would be. After all, that previous 14-country proposal essentially followed the proposals that had already been formulated in the previous coalition. I was in the opposition at the time, and I know that was when this proposal came. Now that all the legislation that is necessary has been created, and now this strong opposition to everything possible, with only some true arguments, I must say no. And I don't pretend that all of a sudden all the landscapes will be equally developed. They can't be. In the morning, Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem greeted us. 9.20 when she looked at the clock, she said, "Good morning, Slovenian and Slovenian, if you're up." I was thinking, "Do you know how many of them get up with us at 6:00 and 5:00 to get up to 7:00 in Maribor or still, I'm in Ljubljana for a job?" However, since he lives here near Ljubljana, he probably needs very little. And our people are driving very far. Why are they driving? Because we don't have jobs. Those who are are underpaid. Those who want a better job, they have to move on. Even when we were working at Cankar's home, the whole of Slovenia was raising money. They said, "You'll all go to different events." Sure, we can walk. Only if we come from the northeast of the country, you need two hours here and two hours ago. That's four hours. Not to tell what the cost is, then. And I'm gonna end it. This is also very interesting, and what Mr Bručan said before me. Those who opposed the smaller congregations that opposed local self - government are also the most opposed today. I can say for myself that these small Slovenian municipalities are developing intensively. And one of the last to be formed in our earlier great congregation, Ormož, is the congregation of St. Tomaž. Now after one year, they opened the first miles of asphalt roads after fifteen years. And what surprised me was their opening -- people who got so excited, said that they had been wronged in the past because they had not already received the congregation eight years ago or more -- there was not a single journalist to report on their great achievement. Despite the fact that people made large funds themselves to reach the needed road by means of municipal means. Yeah, well, that's sad, dear colleagues, and that's sad. If anything happens here in Ljubljana, RTV is right next door. However, if something happens in such a small congregation, they are not there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u89	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! First of all, I will make a statement under the proposed amendment, which I support so that today's debate and decision-making on the referendum will make any sense at all. It is a grave deceiving that, when it is said, the decree will allow people to decide on anything to call for an advisory referendum on the areas of the provinces in Slovenia. So the first deception is that people will make decisions. The second was when Minister Zhagar, together with the President of the Government and with someone else from the coalition, promised after the rejection of the law that he would try to reach out to such provincial legislation as would receive support. He immediately came up with a proposal on fourteen provinces. Then we're talking about twelve plus one, like you're superstitious and you're not hoping to say it's thirteen provinces. Then there were 14 more provinces. We now have before us a resolution on the call for a referendum, which is indeed a fine example of how the answers depend on the questions raised and how nobody will be able to help themselves with the answers to these questions. I'll try to prove that in the case of the 12th statistical region. Because here is probably the reason why you operated with 12 plus one data to deceive that this is a call for areas in the size of former statistical regions. And the Podravska statistical region will fall into two provinces, as proposed by this referendum. What you have under the 10th referendum area and under the 12th, that is, it breaks down the former 7 large municipalities, where other smaller units came from. 41. And I will not discuss what these 41 small municipalities have brought about for development, because then the whole developing region should move forward. And government teams were talking about how this government has accelerated development. But look what happened. 41 municipalities I need to tell you how the 10th referendum area will be covered by the 19th and the 12th referendum area by 22 municipalities. So what happens now? In both referendum areas, we will discuss or ask what kind of name we want, among other things. Because three questions are just about the name. The area is always the same. One name offered is East Star [[Ptujsko-ormoška]] The province. What spelling problems this will cause if this name is preserved, similar to the one offered by Maribor [[Central]] The province is the second question. Then what will be the meaning of the name Central State if the Ptujians decide to have the Ptuj region? What will be the meaning of the name Ptujsko-ormoška krajina when the high officials of Janša's party in Maribor explained that the division of the 12th statistical region in two provinces is necessary because the Ptujčans do not want to be with the Mariborians and the Ormožans do not want to be with the Ptujčans? And you don't know where Ormoiselle would get into. Well, it is very interesting that, for example, in the 10th referendum area, these municipalities are also included, Sveti Andraz, Kidričeva, Majšperk and Ormož, which are according to the material that was available to me, by not attaching a special Eastern [[Ptujsko-ormoško]] The landscape or whatever it's called. It is therefore a great deception, for if any of these names remain Styria. If only Central Styria remains, yes, why Central Styria, but if there is another province that is also Styria, Celje? And if she's the other one, maybe Ptujsko-ormoška or I don't know what else. But we ask questions about stupid things, about marginal things, about those that people should ask. These are the powers. They are sources of funding and a number of other things that we have opposed in the process of adopting provincial legislation. And now people, Members from those congregations who will not be in Maribor or what will be called, want to persuade me and call me to account because I want to live in a strong province that will be a competent interlocutor of the cross-border Styria province. The same people who spoke in the previous term three regions, three universities, three dioceses, had to leave a number three. They were advocates of large, powerful landscapes. Now they're trying to get Members and Members who think that this is what needs to be done, they're calling for responsibility, and they're even saying that we have to step down because we're acting politically harmful. Let all those who are so perverse who are spinning in their positions as those roosts on the roof, where the wind blows, reflect on what they really want, and let us be clear about at least one thing. At this referendum, which will be as the majority will decide in all likelihood, 22 and not 29, along with the anti-corruption committee. At least tell them that their will will not be taken into account because some things cannot be decided at all. If these people are from Majsperk, if they haven't spoken for Ptujsko-Ormoška krajna, now they can't make a decision like that. And these are simply the tins you hunt for your electoral supporters. But why? Give me some patience! It's not so long from June to September that we can't hold out and wait for the election result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u92	Good bye to all of you! I must say, it is extremely interesting when it comes to the transfer of the representative of precisely the party that once demanded 14 provinces. However, when the government wanted to go the other way and the coalition offered a proposal for 14 provinces, it launched a direct and satellite rap on how much it was and what would be wrong. Certainly, the referendum, as it is, is very well proposed. For one simple reason. The decisions will be clear. Those who choose a certain province will certainly receive it. Those who decide against it will have the opportunity to express themselves at the same time or later. And that congregation will be divided. In this way, the picture will be clear where people actually want to have the country and where they don't want it. And this will determine the number of landscapes and also the exact ones that do not. Because these constant manipulations of numbers are, of course, pure perversion. Because those who speak of certain numbers do not usually tell at the same time exactly which provinces do not want to. Because, of course, then they are afraid to stand before their mayors and voters in those provinces they do not want. In this way, it will be possible to get a very clear picture and at least for the SDS, and even in my own name, I can say that we will be committed to this outcome and will respect it. Although it's just a consultation referendum. Because here the situation is clear. If Ljubljana says it wants to be independent with the position of the province, we will respect this decision. If people go to a referendum in Ljubljana, vote against it, then Ljubljana will not be a province. It's over. Very simple logic. As far as the rest of the story is concerned, in fact, the democratic aspect of this debate led by the opposition today is a real scarecrow. For what is the red thread of this debate? Whatever the outcome of the referendum, they will not respect it. Some have said this directly, including through various rhetorical bravoroses. Some said it differently. "Yes, because nothing will be accepted, the elections are near." That's what we just heard. So much so that it is clear that the only real problem that is at stake is that the elections are coming and that the opposition does not want this remarkable success in the introduction of the provinces, such as the amendment of the Constitution, this coalition, which has succeeded because there is no previous one, has added to the adoption of the relevant legislation. That's the only problem. Everything else, of course, is pure conjecture. This is that it is said in advance that the outcome will not be respected, or, as it was said earlier, "This is not a matter for people to decide." This is, of course, something to worry about, because it reflects an extremely low level of political culture. Who's in power after the Constitution? Who has authority according to some fundamental principles of democracy? Humans. And in this case, we ask them who we really are morally, politically and ethically committed to deciding what they want and what they don't want. And since it is an important joint project for the introduction of landscapes for something that will map this country's outline for the next period, the question is still a legitimate one. But this is something that is in line with the fundamental principles of democracy. Your statement that you will not respect this that you do not want to accept anything on this basis is contrary to the fundamental principles of democracy. More. They point to contempt and transfer right to the electorate. Disappointment from this point of view to say in advance that you will disregard their will. This is because, in the same breath, you yourself are proposing another referendum on a matter which is not really necessary to decide at the referendum. Of course, it's possible to put it there. This is a question of the Kosovo Commission. But if you're saying that you won't respect what's going to be in the referendum, yes, why are you proposing another referendum in the same breath? It's just a hoax. Now, to conclude, let me just add a great deal of understanding to a colleague who, earlier and widely and widely, took the view that in fact, the instructions to law enforcement authorities on the issue of buying a broom should be quite the opposite. Because I understand him deeply. If all the Slovenian investigative capacities, all the police, criminals were involved in buying one broom, which is crucial for this Slovenia, then of course all the rich from Forum 21 would continue peacefully to translate their billion euros into some "kaselc firm". Then, of course, we could build a tower, even though there would be no suspicion of corruption. In short, she'd rule the general go-ahead. In discussions that would probably turn around about whether the national interest in one broom was respected in the matter of whether those fields of toilet paper from Paloma or any other company were bought together, the fact that our very opposition, the transition opposition, namely SD, Reale and LDS, did not combine any positive project for Slovenia, but did come together when it was necessary to oppose the provinces. So they were united only by hatred for the existing government and the battle for centralisation, for the central government. And that's why they have, and I'm pretty sure, a billion and a half reasons, because a billion and a half euros from the central treasury would be transferred to the provinces and people would decide billions and a half of euros through the provincial authorities. However, if this remains in the central treasury, of course, the opposition wrongly expects to take over the next power and it will continue to lead Slovenia centrally with a full scrotum, because people will study them and when you consider where you broke it in the opposition's second term, I will tell you a key story: you lost your previous elections because of the commotion, and you will lose them because of your own mismanagement.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I must say that in many ways I agree with Mr Grims when he said that our moral-ethic commitment is to respect the possibility of citizens deciding things, such as the referendum. The problem is that this commitment makes a mistake for them because it leaves such an option only for the issues that citizens should be asked about by their boss. It is slightly different with us and, therefore, Mr Gantar, it has happened to us that we are not all of the same opinion, although this was your expectation or wish and we would see it in the idyllic; in the idiocy we promise about the landscapes on credit. In fact, the story of the distribution of a billion 300 million euros to be made available to the provinces is not money in a pile that we are looking forward to distributing, but it will be able to go after anything, but it is mostly money distributed in advance. And those who vote under this impression of money are wrong and will buy a cat in a jacket that is wrapped in a fairy tale about their right to decide about the provinces. In this sense, I do not at all claim that the provinces are not good. I have also supported the establishment of the landscapes all the time, until it seemed that this would reach a broader consensus, even though I had already reached the first day and then stood in the position that 14 was too much, that the power of the landscape was one to ten too much and that red tape would be an additional burden, with which the minister who proposed the whole thing agreed on some coordination, today thinks it was not so, but this is his problem. I believed him, and I'm sure it'll be more expensive today, because with some famous pile of money, we're going to have to pay about 500 landscape officials, so I don't count ficus, secretary and space at all. And for that, I object to the referendum. We are obliged to agree here and to reach a broader consensus, which is also necessary because we do not know what the future authority will be. If the future power is to be the same, I recommend that 58 Members have the same power, then with the minorities we would always have the opportunity to do everything you want in this country. Then, of course, in my firm belief, if this were to happen, it will be very questionable what is said in the preamble to the Constitution that we are a democratic state, but that is already a few assumptions that are probably hazy. In any case, it is true that you said that the congregations were developing faster by crushing, but you forgot to say, always for extra money. It was not the same money for congregations that divided into several congregations, but the "plus extra". For example, even those we took from the highway program and made a bloody debt there, which was the basis for us to talk about the rapid development of municipalities that are supposed to have their origin only in detail - of course, which is not true, and in many mayors that we have to pay. I think that the external debt was also due to this and that's why it's higher, because in this way, we wanted to prove something that's not real. We have proved it in this way, among other things, that this authority has made an external debt to the extent that it is the same as the previous government in three mandates - I read it in Finance or the newspaper, I don't know which one, and that's why I'm saying it here. In short, we are for the provinces that need a broader consensus, because if power changes, it may creak the very model with which, say, the existing opposition disagrees. Therefore, it is important that we reach a broader consensus that it would be, in this sense, no matter who wins the next election, so that the matter can succeed later in accordance with the agreement that it is. But it really pains me to see your complete refusal to ask people what doesn't answer you right now. You can take this matter by most of the time, and that's why it's problematic to question my voice without need. I am also following my opposition to my minister, who has stated, and as far as I know, he has not yet denied in public that the provinces are not needed at all. I do not agree with this, but in the context of the fact that we will spend money on the referendum instead of supporting the Transfer Act, where you will save for the provinces to function, for example - I think I do not agree. With the referendums to replace our inability to reach an agreement, we are wasting taxpayers' money and this is my main reason to oppose it. However, with a broader consensus, I will always support the development of the landscapes with the awareness that it will be more expensive, that it is not so enunciated that it is only a beautiful picture, and has its consequences and so on, which some do not want to admit. And here is the problem of dealing with individual issues in our common coalition, for the time being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not understand some of the colleagues of the debaters, mainly from the opposition, who today have been asking questions in the middle of everything other than what is the subject of today's agenda item, because when they tried to answer the questions they were asking today, they were dealt with at some other points of the agenda and then they obstructed them. Secondly, if memory does not deceive me, in 1994, 310 referendums were signed for the establishment of municipalities and 147 were established, not so few where this research referendum was negative, but municipalities were established where it was negative, and they were not established where they were positive. And that's why he's a researcher, or a consultant, or let's call him what we want a referendum. And now to make excuses, I don't know why it wasn't a problem at the time or whether it was a referendum. And then some people say, "Yeah, what are you going to do?" I can say to myself: it would be difficult to say, if, for example, from the 13 referenda signed in the 11th, let's say that people have decided for the most part to want to have the landscapes as they are, but sometimes we've given a possible option, although I might have decided otherwise, if I had been given that I should not be asked to be suggested by people, because some of you today said that you're not super smart, but some that you wouldn't even know who. In short, there was much insult, less substantive debate. And I'd do it again. We have a consultative referendum, the Constitution speaks of it, the laws speak. Why not get information like that? And once again, to repeat to you what I said in each other's law, and then - I think my colleague Potrč turned back and from his colleague Samoto Bevka received information: in 2004 another coalition coordinated 14 provinces and because of opposition by the Slovenian People's Party, for one reason only, to give consent first to local communities to establish these provinces, the matter was not accepted. So, it was said not in this mandate, it was already discussed in the previous term, in another coalition on 14 provinces, and today we are problematic about the number of provinces. If only a little more in my pot: I would expect and hope that we will be in Primorsk, given that the referendum was held in one of the congregations, this proposal was taken into account by the people, or referendum, which was carried out in Illyrian Bistrica, and because of this, the so-called interior-prussian province is not to decide for Primorsko, and I think we will have a northern and southern Primorsko. But! I will say again, in the National Assembly we have several thousand proposals that Goriška should be, we have almost ten thousand, that it should be a single Primorska and we also have some suggestions that it is southern Primorska. Let's ask people, I think it's the greatest democracy, and by doing so, we will not transfer this responsibility to someone else, but it will help us for our eventual substantive decision after we get the referendum results. That's why I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u98	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, Minister with colleagues. I would believe, but I would also like to see the project of the provincialisation of Slovenia as a project for all of us and not just a coalition project, as some of us would like to represent it as well. When the constitution was changing, two-thirds of the support was needed, and you were also given by the opposition, but today it is clear that with a fig in your pocket, because you did not believe that this coalition or this government would be able to draw up such a difficult legislation that we could also decide on in time. That's more than obvious today. If there were eight landscapes, we would have come up with another reason not to support it. You're saying there's virtually nothing to gain from these regions right now. I say, with regions, nothing loses; in fact, everyone can gain. Each province will gain, and indeed, some more, a little less; and so is the case. Why the central Ljubljana region can be so highly developed today, it certainly has not evolved on its own. It has developed because the whole of Slovenia has contributed, each in its own way, to the development of this region faster. Therefore, it is also right now that the other regions are now developing a little faster, but the central regions are still evolving, but perhaps with a slightly lower dynamic. You're saying it's not Ljubljana, and it won't be possible to take anything. Why? We do not need to take anything away, but it is good to get those regions that contribute more to Slovenia's budget to get back more money than they did in the past. I speak for the Lower Region or the Dolenj-Belokranj region. Given the strength of the economy, the region is at the very top of Slovenia, putting much more in the budget than in the old days, and this is often claimed by politicians, economists. Why is that? All these mistakes in the past. If this region had received back what it also contributed to the state budget, it would not have had as many as a few ten kilometres of Macedonian state roads, today we also have areas without drinking water, because it cannot be found money, we would have a university long ago in New Town and many other projects of regional importance. Not to mention the other regions that are also in need of rapid development, and I am sure they would also develop it and develop it when the regions are too. I will therefore be happy to support this proposal for a referendum, and it is also right that we all respect it, regardless of who will then be in Slovenia to decide on these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will start by saying that I will not support this decision because, as I said in the previous debate, it is a referendum decision which is some kind of collateral damage to poorly prepared provincial legislation and a second time; total chaos within the ruling coalition. This could have been seen in the last month of the days when every three hours a new version of what these provinces would look like came from coalition species. That is why, of course, I will tell myself what people will really be deciding at this referendum at just one point. They will decide on an additional concentration of political power in Slovenia, to the so-called triple functionaries. If you have policies today, if you have Members sitting today, some of you are councillors, you are mayors, and I think that the same people you are will now have the opportunity at the next provincial elections to be also in the provincial councils and provincial officials and so on. So, we're introducing some sort of triple-functioning political system, I simply call it, it's a political employment agency from the municipal and state levels at the provincial level. And for that, respected colleagues and colleagues, it takes money. And those who wonder what voters will vote on in this referendum and whether we will gain or lose anything - at least what we will lose, we will lose at least this money from a small budget for the meetings, for wages, for the kilometers and I don't know what else, for these few less than a thousand new political officials. And that's what we're going to decide about in June at the referendum. Everything else is a story for other times and other purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Yeah, this debate really surprises me. It surprises me, because it is so despising by some members of the province, that regionalisation, which we all somehow put at the forefront of our programmes years and years ago, is being undermined. And those who took their own stand for 14 provinces were already in the National Assembly, when the National Assembly itself could adopt a law on this, with a fig tree in its pocket this initial decision, when they took up 14 provinces, they refused. And now that the National Assembly has not been able to reach a large enough two-thirds majority for this - yes, but it is not the most natural to ask people in this case what they think about this proposal, which is now set here. And saying that it's a farce, that people won't know what they're talking about, is a huge underestimation of people. I don't know why. Would it be more honest for people to ask them, as some have suggested, to decide either 4 or 6 or 9 provinces? How? How should people decide that? That they only decide on the number without knowing what it represents on the map? Should Slovenia then be divided into 4, 6, 9 equal parts by some coordinates? Is that supposed to be regionalisation and landscape, in your opinion? No! No! Such a question, however, would in fact constitute a diversion and a decision on nothing. People can only decide on concrete things and the concrete thing is ready here and people can decide whether or not to do so. And, of course, they can only choose the part of Slovenia where they live. Why make a decision about one another; and they may make a decision against or against one another. And we're talking about what's envisaged in the constitution itself. The National Assembly had reached a sufficient two-thirds majority a time ago to change the constitution and to write down the introduction of the provinces in Slovenia to introduce regionalisation in Slovenia. And now that we have this, when we have the legal basis, in the opposition without any argument, you object. You are only opposed to this being carried out in this mandate. Because you didn't actually mention any other arguments. And that's unfair. This is contrary to what you yourself have been saying for years and years, and therefore I can only find that the decree currently on the agenda deserves support and deserves to be implemented in the proposed time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Family is the base cell of our society, and we can probably all agree on that. It consists of a father, a mother, and children. Let's see how this family works. Usually, each one has his own duties, his own duties, and his own responsibilities. But when the oldest daughter gets a driver’s license and wants to have her own car, the family sits down at the common table and makes a lot of decisions for the family. We are ahead of this big decision. Before deciding whether we want to ask our voters what they want before this decision - whether they want the regions. And we are their representatives, and I am convinced that it is our moral obligation to follow them, that in the event of their decision, we take this decision into account. I am very sorry, dear colleagues on the other hand, that you do not go to the field, do not go to the municipalities, do not listen to their problems and also to the praises which we, who follow the beat of our municipalities, are certainly experiencing. And I say that most of the congregations, especially those once adorned by a large congregation, are now congregations of their own, progressing extremely quickly, extremely high quality, and no one comes to mind to associate this congregation with anyone else. Their development is visible, their development is concrete. And let us, dear colleagues and colleagues, ask our electorates and voters what we want and finally: we take their opinion into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u106	Very briefly, but since the comparison was given to the family, let me also use this comparison. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, it is unclear in the provinces, at least not by 2/3 of the majority of this National Assembly, what will they really do, how will we fund them, which congregations are supposed to be in them, and how many will they be? And with a referendum question, we have the following situation: You have five children. You've got money for two cars. And now you ask each of these kids, "Do you want to have a car?" What's the answer? "Of course I want it." And all of a sudden, you need five cars, and you only have two. And that is what this is about, Mr Rudi Veršnik, a member of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. This is why we, as the National Assembly, decide whether we really have money for five cars and whether we can really ask five children if everyone wants to have their own car. Of course he wants it. And if you ask, of course, a consultation question, whether municipalities A, B, C, D, E want to have a province of X, the answer will be yes. If you now ask in 210 municipalities the question, do you want the municipality of Braslovče to be renamed and the province of Braslovska, you will get the answer - yes. Absolutely! And that's why it's as irresponsible to ask people as if five kids, each of them, were asking if they wanted to have a car. The answer is five cars, and you got two. So, my dear colleague Veršnik and Members of the ruling coalition, ask yourself first how much money we have for how many working cars, how many of these five children will the two cars we have share, and then you ask them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u107	Yes, there you go. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u108	I'd just like to say to your respectable Mr. Squeak that it's to forget what I said before. The family sits at the common table.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u109	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Some colleagues are predicting in advance that the referendum on the provinces will bring nothing, that people will not decide anything, that they do not know anything, because they have not read the laws. They didn't read them, but they know what roads they're taking, they know that they're standing in a column every morning before they get into the city, and they're waiting ten, twenty years to rebuild your road that you're going to drive a few miles. And that's just because they don't live downtown, but they live somewhere else outside the center. You're asking why we define areas of the landscape. Even when we were introducing congregations, you asked whether we wanted our congregation or not at the referendum. And in a number of congregations the answer was no, but we did have or have introduced them. And if these people today asked what they thought about it today, they would probably have decided most of the time for their congregation, because the congregations had their money, that is, with their resources, they actually got all the momentum needed to develop very quickly today, and all those shortcomings that we had not done in the past, when they were socially disadvantaged, when a whole bunch of things were not happening at the outskirts, but only in the centers. The story with the provinces has a long beard. Minister Bohinc has already prepared a proposal for 14 provinces, at which time you supported it in the United List. On 18.10.2003, Work published an article: "The United List of Social Democrats is for 14 provinces. 'The United List advocates that we have 14 provinces in Slovenia, in addition to the current 12 so-called statistical regions, the Savinja-Shaleška region and the Ptuj region,' Member Bojan Kontic said yesterday at a press conference of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. In addition, Majda Potrat, Silva Črnugelj, Aurelio Juri and the leader of the delegation explained how the Group of Members would be defined for proposals..." and so on. Today, my colleague from Social Democracy, or Social Democrats, is thinking about the great Styria, and she obviously no longer supports what she supported in 2003, which is fine. And now she's found that the landscape is too much. He also noted that we have not eliminated the differences between the areas, despite the fact that we have amended the law on coherent regional development, despite many financial incentives. And here we all note that despite all these measures, we have not actually managed to stop the backlogs and enable all the municipalities, all the provinces or regions to develop in a similar way. That's why I don't understand that you're not for the referendum today. With both hands, we should support the fact that we will do more to ensure that the areas develop as quickly as possible. I am also pleased that colleague Kontič has found that, when the congregations were established, they were obviously too many and that the social democrats of the congregations had escaped from the exercise. It's a good thing someone else took the exercise and held it a little tighter. That is why this coalition has drawn up provincial legislation; therefore it is right that we have prepared everything until the moment you had the opportunity to vote for it, and you have decided differently, and that is probably why our common commitment and the right proposal is to ask people about it. That is why I will support the ruling itself and I am sure that the referendum will succeed because people are aware of why we need the provinces and why they want the province in their area.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u111	Thank you. You wanted a replica? Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Jeraeva, as in 2003, I am thinking today. And you didn't say anything new, nothing that might surprise you. At that time, I was talking about 14 provinces, and today I'm talking about 14 provinces. January [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u113	Here you are, Mr. Kontic. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u114	I would, but in light of laughter, there's probably some comedy of confusion in the largest group of Members, but good. I haven't changed my mind, and I feel the same way today. Lord Jerovšek, you laugh, laughter is half health, but it may be well for you. At that time, I spoke of 14 provinces, and in January, the only opposition Member confirmed that the proposal for a law was a suitable basis for further consideration. The only member of the opposition! There were 14 provinces. Although I had already said before that I hoped that this legislation would change in the next steps. Hope, as I said before, is dying last, but it's already gone from our benches. Speaking of regional development deficits, it is correctly established. Four years of this mandate have passed, backlogs are rising, backlogs have increased, more coherent regional development has not been carried out as planned. That we have too many municipalities in Slovenia and that some are too small, and I say so now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Steba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! In principle, it is a matter of connecting the congregations in some way, one approach and the other, that what is too far away from such connected municipalities be transferred to this level called the province, the regional level. And it is this part of Slovenia that is missing and is in fact determined that these responsibilities, which are shared from below and those shared and belonging to this area of municipalities, are linked and transferred to this cross-border level. That's the point. And in the end, these provinces then produce not only 20% of their income, but 35% of their income, which now belongs to the municipalities. It is also part of excise duty on alcohol and tobacco products. And there are 1,300 million euros in these provinces, 1.3 billion euros in the provinces. It is essential, however, that all this governance structure is transferred in some way from the centre from all these agencies and ministries to the level of these provinces. And if there's no advantage here, both in management and in responsibility, then "let me get kicked." But nothing changes in the number of these officials, it's called administration experts. Of course, the number of administrative units is changing. With 53 administrative units we come to 13 or 14 provinces and only 13 or 14 fikus instead of 40 or more of these ficus and chiefs. And not only the chiefs, but also the heads of individual departments in these administrative units. And I'm not just talking about administrative units, I'm talking about all those structures that control the tasks that are now being transferred to the provinces. And if we take a comparison with these cars now, instead of transporting 53 cars across Slovenia and transporting some cars from agencies and ministries to all parts of Slovenia, these cars are transferred there. The maintenance of these cars is only 14 or 13 or 12 to the extent possible. And talking about higher costs and talking about more officialism, it's completely declassified and without a basis. The only thing that is true is that only this democratic part will increase, namely, the municipal or provincial councillors who will act, and that minimum administration for the functioning of these provincial councils. This is also all that is actually increasing at the expense of the savings that are being created and mentioned earlier. And the cars will be maintained at fourteen levels, thirteen levels, but not now at, I don't know, 53 levels, and I don't know how many other agency levels. And there's really nothing to debate here. However, if I look only at the referendum decree; if, before that, the referendum was a condition for continuation or agreement with the amendment or adoption of the provincial legislation, the advisory referendum should now, when we specifically ask people, be fully acceptable to the opposition. We followed that. And the most democratic is to ask people. Unfortunately, we ask them in some not sufficiently coordinated way. I regret that there is also no referendum question about forming, I don't know, Bistrisko-Savska region or Kamnik-Litija, Medvoška etc. Unfortunately, all mayors in this area do not have a unified position. I hope something like this happens. The provinces are urgent for Slovenia and the 1994 fiasco should not be repeated! It shouldn't just happen again. The size of the landscapes is not even questionable. In 160 million Brazil, you have a country that has 30,000 inhabitants, a federal state, and one that has 40 million inhabitants -- everything works if, of course, social, economic, geographical, historical and I don't know how they still work as a framework. I'll support such a decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Janc. He's already talked. Mrs. Roach. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I think today's debate is not going in the right direction at all, because once again there is advertising for the provinces to be, which is not at all a question of a referendum debate, but the question is whether citizens and citizens should answer such confused questions as have been prepared here. I must say that I am confident that in southern Primorsk and northern Primorsk we will get answers that we will not know what our citizens are responsible for. And for this reason, I think that to mention how the provinces of the road will "richtal" how they will connect the congregations, we forget that in any of the laws proposed, no municipal authority was transferred to the province level because you were afraid of the congregations when you were preparing the law. Shut up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Good-bye. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President. Today we have a very interesting debate, and we are also witnessing very interesting establishments, or even by the opposition, some pronounced nonsense and illogicality. I don't mind. You stressed that you wouldn't respect the outcome of the referendum. Just stress this in the pre-referendum campaign that they will know very transparently what parties to deal with. It was also said that the referendum was on a moral basis. Yes, how can the referendum, the demand for morals, be morally challenged? Of course, it's more logical why you're so lame. What are you afraid of? You're afraid of the Slovenes! You're afraid of their will! And you're afraid because you wanted to steal people in regions of opportunity for coherent, even, more efficient, faster development. Now you're afraid because you're avoiding the fact that we're holding back centralisation, this strong centralization. To fill your oligarchs here in Ljubljana in your left and right pocket. It kind of slips out of your hands. This is, of course, the result of such opposition. I have also heard further nonsense about the region from which I come from, the future, the Central State - I think it will be called. The possibility is either Maribor or Middle East. Colleague of Procrastination doesn't understand why the Middle Ages. He says if Ptujska hadn't decided for East St., that's nonsense. This is a profound misunderstanding and ignorance of Styria. Maribor and this region are at the heart of Styria and this historical term and this historical significance must be maintained. It'll always be central Styria. Styria is divided into five regions. To five regions! For this reason it should be stressed that it is the center of Styria to preserve the spirit of Slomška and Maistra there, who also imagined Styria. But more worrying and unacceptable is that colleague Potrata said: "I want to live in strong Styria, in cross-border Styria." This is an insult to Slovenian Styria. Madam can move to a cross-border Styria, Austria Styria, if she does not want to live here in our Styria. That's what she said! But this is the negation that Styria can be strong. You wanted to prevent the faster development of Styria, you didn't want the strong Styria. You don't want Styria to work and evolve. All of this comes from an inanimate, impossible thesis, insulting to Styria. It comes from a party that once divided Slovenia by a delegation system, where we were, say, Rušani, Bistricians and Ptujčani in one delegation, in one statistical region. There was no road link between the Russians and Slovenska Bistrica at all. And since then, a relic has emerged that we still have a state councillor for such a region. Now we have for the first time some life thing, some living regions - and here such strong opposition and deception of people! I am sure that Slovenia has already tried a number of ways to achieve a more equitable, more coherent development. No luck, the differences increased. And by the law of probability, the next step is regionalisation. But here we had the scene of saving Private Conticy from this mess they cooked. He did vote last for the 4 regions, but in the entire debate he had previously convinced that this was nonsense. I believe that the weakness and vigor of the electorate works, to the best of luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u121	Thank you. Here's the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u122	The problem is if people do not understand Slovenian: I want strong Styria, because she can cooperate with the cross-border Austrian Styria. But Mr Jerovšek does not understand that the name Styria was also meant for what will now be the province of Celje, and also for what will be Ptuj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Yes has a word. It's been a while. [[...]] Mr. Croat. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Rugelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Well, what we've been listening to for a long time today would all agree that the opposition is talking about the pre-election moves of this government. Look, I don't know if it's a pre-election move, if you're doing a good two years, you're doing something, we're even working together at the beginning, and now, right before the finish line, someone's tripping you. I don't know what a pre-election move is! If it is not a pre-election move by the opposition to prevent the adoption of such a law as we have all been working on, and so much effort has been put into it. So, it's purely political misdirection, without any serious argument. And I don't see why we shouldn't do this project now - there's no reason why we shouldn't finish it. As far as the referendum question is concerned, the ruling. I'm alone from Sevnica, from the future province of Posavia. The question will be read as follows: 'The question decided at the referendum is: 'Are you in favour of the establishment, in accordance with article 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, of Posavska krajina, which will include the following municipalities: Brežice, Kostanjevica na Krka, Krško, Radeče, Sevnica? The voter shall vote by surrounding the word "yes" or the word "against". What is wrong with such a question? Isn't that the most correct question for those people who live there, whether they'll choose to support it or not, or whether we'll ask them if they want to live, I don't know, on Bled. Even if someone's against the number of provinces, they'll still be able to circle "against" here. Or he'll say, I don't know, I'm against the number of landscapes, but here I am. That's illogical. People who live somewhere else can't make decisions about the provinces again somewhere else. I think that this is the referendum issue as far as possible and as clearly as possible. Everyone will know exactly what they're going to surround and why they're going to circle. Let's let people decide once! As far as it is concerned, there may have been some concerns about the costs of the referendum. I don't know, it's about 2,3 million euros. This cost of the referendum is a negligible cost. This is the last time I have said that this is the best investment for the decentralisation of Slovenia. All these small poor municipalities will have the opportunity to make better and faster progress and to align themselves with the centre of Ljubljana. That's it, respectable opposition! Not to speak of further misinterpretation when some of your Members, who are also mayors, in their local environment, of course advocate the establishment of the province: we are in favour of it, yes - here in Parliament vote differently. I don't understand. Now it will show up at the referendum, who and what it does and how it works. And one day we're gonna come clean and it's right for people to see it, and I'm up for it. But you call it pre-election moves. I don't know whose pre-election move it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I see my colleagues left me two minutes of bad time. For a moment, I would like to inform you that, of course, I will vote in favour of this decision and also somehow call on people to decide on this referendum. Indeed, here is the previous mandate and this mandate cannot somehow come to a wise solution, and this inquiry referendum will certainly be an obligation not only for this National Assembly, but also for the next. Now maybe a little joke or a little joke. When I talked to my colleagues and asked why Zasavje and Posavje were not together in one province and they taught me that it was not at all true that it was right for Zasavje that it was somehow in the central Slovenian province, because they were still technologically so far behind - let my colleagues not mind - that they were still digging coal there and in Posavje they were already dealing with atomic energy. So there may also be some jokes in this serious story, but Slovenia certainly deserves to get the regions, and at the shortest possible time, these differences, which are present, will at least level out slightly. It would be a shame if this work did not end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Tanko. No, no, no. Mr. Puksich. No, he's not. Does the government want a word? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would, however, even though I apologize in advance, because I am likely to repeat many of what I have said several times in the National Assembly. But also because some of the statements are repeated all the time and do not correspond to what happened, I think it is necessary to repeat these things. Now, with regard to the consultation referendum itself, I have said several times that we support it because, at this point, after things have long been coordinated and, finally, an agreement has been reached, then on the amendment of the Constitution on the establishment of the provinces, and not only that, then, an agreement has been reached on the number of children or on the number of provinces, because otherwise I do not believe that anyone in Slovenia would believe that they would propose a map or a solution that was not agreed on, knowing that this requires a two-thirds majority. So, with most positions, this agreement has been reached, and I believe that the outcome of this referendum will also be a good guide to those who are and who are still defending this upper number of 14 provinces today, so that, once they have to decide, they will also be able to make a better decision. Now, as far as the design of this map is concerned, we have already announced when this process began, and we also wanted to bring this two-thirds law into the parliamentary procedure, in the National Assembly, to be harmonised before that. However, it was clearly no longer this will, no one wanted to propose a counterproposal, but nevertheless, it is perfectly clear and it also follows from the constitutional law that it is necessary to at least ask the opinion of the municipalities as representatives of their citizens - citizens and citizens. And since we have asked all the municipalities, that is, from the whole territory of Slovenia, and we have made it very clear that in those cases where these dilemmas and some are still present, there will be changes and formation of a final proposal and it has already crystallized itself through this debate. However, this does not mean that every day there was a new map and if you look at these solutions, you can see that in most or most of Slovenia they did not virtually change. Even in these parts, which have now been most exposed, because these two sub-regions as well as future provinces have been agreed a long time ago. In fact, this was agreed in the previous term by the two main government parties. And there's probably nothing wrong with that either. It's wrong to forget this deal now. Finally, the relevant laws have been introduced in this mandate, which have supported this. If we only recall the special law on Savinja-Shaleška and the amendments of the opposition when the Act on Harmonized Regional Development was adopted, which increased the developmental statistical regions from 12 to 14. Of course, that was not possible at the time, since we were in another phase of negotiations with the European Union, which was extremely important as regards the new financial perspective. It is a fact, and this is evident from the fact that our regionalisation or the introduction of landscapes at this level is comparable to all countries. In fact, it is also in line with the European Union regulations covering this area, which say that the country has an average of 150 000 inhabitants on this level, i.e. 13 to 14 provinces in Slovenia and Slovenia in this part also correspond fully with these proposals. And there's another thing that needs to be highlighted. The principle of subsidiarity is very strongly expressed, including in the European Union. These things are often pointed out. So - moving tasks, powers down because these things are significantly more effectively implemented at this level. Of course, this map was created practically as a final solution after all these coordinations. And once again, according to my behavior, it was a matter of agreement. I would also point out that these landscapes cannot be compared with the federal countries in neighbouring countries, because this is not the same and is not a comparable level. Now there are some other questions. The needs of the provinces, too. Of course, at this point in time the need for landscapes, I also speak from my own experience, feel the most those who miss them most. That is why so much support has been expressed by the municipalities, which is why the Council of State has expressed this great support, and that is why, in individual economies, it is very much supported because, despite all efforts, some projects that go beyond the areas of the municipalities, which are not state-owned projects, are, in fact, not as quick as they could have been implemented if they had the provinces that they would have adopted in this case. And here the question of developmental axes is also hidden, the question of economic centres. The fact is that a great deal of effort has been made at this time, as regards more coherent regional development, but through the possible mechanisms available. Here I am referring to a system of funding for municipalities that partly covers this part. Here I have solutions that come through the law on coherent regional development - a substantially increased range of direct initiatives, but if we want to take this important step forward, which is reflected in many other areas, it cannot be done without a systemic step, without a systemic shift, i.e. by establishing landscapes. I see here, in fact, this only solution, and I am sure that even in the future it will not be possible to take this step unless the landscapes are established. And, of course, the provinces mean added value on a number of other issues, including the social issue, which has also been the subject of many debates in the National Assembly at this time. This does not mean that the provinces will resolve social issues, but it does mean that they will enable those countries with the greatest problems of this kind to enter a much faster resolution system. That is why they are also needed and needed in many other areas. It is possible as far as legislation, jurisdiction, financing is concerned. I must say that these solutions are both in the laws, that is, in those basic four laws that are prepared, as in the Government's 2009 budget projection decision, they are made and written. The solutions are well known. I can agree that these solutions can be adequately complemented, but concrete proposals are needed in these relevant additions. I appreciate the work of experts in various fields, and have also done important work in this area of local self-government on the establishment of landscapes in the past period. This is not exactly what we have repeated once again, because all these studies are available, they are for everyone to see, but also through concrete legislation specific solutions have to be brought forward. And they must be properly prepared. And the alternative to these solutions is also through the coordination that took place, at least as long as it took place, as long as it was the will, and with those who were willing to talk about it - some have not actually been or have not proposed anything, and now they are looking for some other excuses - have also given birth to the fact that we, too, have made up the basic legislation that we have prepared properly, and it could be completed through the continuation of this dialogue in any case. I don't see these problems here, if it's political will, anything's possible. Of course, it should be borne in mind that this will always be decided here, in the National Assembly, even after this consultation referendum, and this law will always be determined by a 2/3 majority and this agreement is always needed in the basic laws. As far as these solutions are concerned, it should also be borne in mind that these solutions mean frameworks that have been agreed upon, which cannot be derogated from, so no new taxes can be introduced, and we have not given up on them. I claim fully responsible that, basically, at the source of the province, the new administration does not constitute a new administration, because the one being carried down is sufficient to enable the provinces to start performing their tasks. I even argue that this administration can be progressively reduced through more effective implementation. It is absolutely linked to the effectiveness of the implementation of this work and, for example, because of this, the landscapes are necessary. Well, as far as funding is concerned. The numbers were also presented on the models. Of course, it is not possible to calculate all the solutions to the last euro today, this is a clear thing. Finally, the provinces also represent decision-making autonomy in their work and will decide their own programmes, the projects themselves, in the part where they are not legally binding. However, of these 1.3 billion, which means establishing landscapes and transferring them downwards, together with these 4,200 jobs as potential staff, in this basic framework of these 1.3 billion of Europe's approximately 200 million funds are exclusively for projects, and of the other billions and 100, according to estimates made, approximately 50% of these resources are needed to carry out the current tasks imposed by legislation. It is also possible to seek rationalisation, better solutions, I am sure that policy coordination will also take place there. And 50% of the funds are available exclusively for the development and investment tasks to be carried out by the provinces. And the structure of the provincial budget, as foreseen on the revenue side and also on the expenditure side, is significantly more favourable than the structure of the state budget in this development and investment context. Which means that we are transferring virtually most of these development and investment funds down. Maybe someone doesn't like it either, because, of course, then neither Members nor Ministers will decide on it anymore, but it will be decided where it is actually up to them to decide. So these things are known and anyone who wants them can look at them. I repeat, however, that they need to be complemented in this final phase. We have been open all the time to all the solutions that have been professionally justified and which have also been included in this legislation, because no one, at least as far as I am concerned, knows everyone, some are, I don't count in this part. And we've also taken these things into account, as we can see through the acceptance segment of the amendments. The amendments have also been complied with. And perhaps another one could be taken into account if, at this stage, in fact, things were explained on both sides in the discussion. Since, without discussion, legislation cannot be properly upgraded without dialogue. I'd end up at this point. I would also call once again on the National Assembly to find a political effort to find this consensus and to make every effort to actually reach the provinces. With regard to the necessity of implementing this project, I would like to draw attention to one more thing that is currently happening - I am talking about the degree of decentralisation. This level of decentralisation is now expressed through this 1.3 billion per year, but individual solutions, which are also being transferred to the National Assembly and even here, are being adopted in order to reduce this rate of decentralisation. And if then these trends continue, then in some subsequent period, the landscapes may become uncontentual. That is why I believe that everything must be done as soon as possible to reach the landscapes as possible, even from this developmental point of view, because, at the current pace of development, which is taking place in Europe and also throughout the world, we well know that delaying some decisions a year, two or three means that these decisions can in fact be for permanently lost development opportunities. I could list a number of more justifications that suggest that we reach the provinces if we are to substantially and systematically accelerate the development of Slovenia. This does not mean that we will have all future provinces in the future, so the areas will be equally developed. This means that we will also give these environments an opportunity to make these trends, which are negative and would probably be even worse if these efforts were not made in this mandate, but turn in a positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u129	Thank you. Does the motioner want a word? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Perhaps now, at the conclusion of this long debate, there are only a few more arguments that speak in favour of supporting the referendum. I have in my hands the section "Pro et contra", published in the Evening on November 10, 2003. There, a colleague, the leader of the then United List of Social Democrats Group, wrote: "Slovenia is one of the few European countries with only one-stage local self-government of the municipality." That's what he's holding right now. "Slovenia is becoming the administrative and political most centralised countries in Europe, making multi-centre development more difficult, increasing the contradiction between the centre and the regional centres, making it more difficult to develop Slovenia evenly." This claim is still valid today. And we note that in this particular segment, these regional differences, precisely because of the centralisation that is now in Slovenia, are greatly increasing. He wrote down another thought that "the process of decentralisation is difficult to measure and value only at costs". That's what he's holding. And the problem that has happened to us is that, despite all these strong conclusions that they are still holding today, there has not been in the times of governments and coalitions in which you have been able to prepare anything - not a substantive or any other project that would solve these problems. There's more or less in all the records. This coalition is actually the first to prepare a regionalisation project, a landscape project; this coalition is the first to receive an extremely high local consensus for the project, a local consensus - this is said to be agreement: mayors, municipal councils, both associations of municipalities, the State Council. Interestingly, this project is also strongly supported by the mayors of some municipalities, such as Slovenj Gradca, Nova Gorica, Ptuja, Velenje, and those who support the project of decentralisation and the establishment of the provinces. In short, there is clearly a need to move forward in this area, and now that we have rejected or rejected the proposal of the coalition to establish 14 provinces, we have a new initiative ahead of us, it is said, to call for an advisory referendum to actually ask people. That the project is addressed not only by national and local politicians, but also by people being asked about the project and whether they are behind the project, whether they support the project or not. I think that this is something that is necessary for this country, because, as you have already found out in 2003, the differences between the centre and the other peripheral areas of the country are greatly increasing. The differences between central Slovenia and any other part of Slovenia have increased several times. This is amazing, but for several times these differences have increased. And interestingly, despite these findings, despite such devastating development results, development trends, in policy at national level, we are not able to take decisions and allow these negative development trends to be attempted, in some way to stop them. The provinces are the only known option so far. I am sorry about this project, but in this referendum, it is only that we have somehow failed to obtain sufficient consensus to ask people about some other matters. This is said, as far as the Central Slovenian province is concerned, and perhaps as far as Primorska is concerned. That's too bad, and I think this is a missed opportunity. However, I am sure that, on the basis of these arguments that I have read, you will also listen to the initiative and support the call for a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u131	Thank you. We have concluded the general debate. But since time is spent, I can't put an amendment into the debate that's been tabled, so we will. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] No, just one minute, SDS. Would you like to discuss the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] The other is all used up. For this reason, we are moving to a decision, first of all to a decision on the amendment of the SD, LDS and Res to the first section of the decree. I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Run, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The amendment provides an opportunity for the National Assembly, in particular the coalition, to allow a referendum on the areas of the provinces to be held on the same day as it is likely that a consultation referendum will be held on whether the independent and independent Commission for the Prevention of Corruption should be lifted. We have made such a proposal in order to make use of the referendum day, which makes it possible for the legislature to take advantage of another important issue, a question which is politicized by the good three years or the entire mandate of this National Assembly and which, in the opinion of the signatories to this amendment, constitutes a serious obligation on Slovenia, both in relation to the signed United Nations Convention against Corruption and the efforts of the State to organise preventive action in the fight against corruption, because only the Kurativ or implementation through the police, the Prosecutor's Office, the courts and certain supervisory bodies so far, in our opinion, has not produced sufficient results. We expect this amendment to be adopted and, as coalition Members have expressed a misunderstanding that there is no agreement - it is known who decides, who knows who has the majority - at this point it is very easy to reach an agreement that costs no coalition but to postpone the referendum on the establishment of the provinces for a week and at the same time to hold a referendum on an equally important issue that will allow the National Assembly to decide whether the proposed law, which is now in third reading, should be adopted or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u134	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! We will support the amendment in the Liberal Democracy Group. The reasons are also such as mentioned by our predecessor, but I would point out that it is also a follow-up to a red thread, a desire that has sometimes been more frequent, sometimes more rarely expressed in this National Assembly, to have a referendum day on which to combine annual referendum initiatives and then decide on all those issues that we think should be asked by voters and voters. Today we are talking about the issue concerning the Commission against Corruption or the prevention of corruption and, of course, the referendum issue on the provinces. On issues, part of the mandate is already open. It is very difficult to speak, which has ever been more at the forefront, which is less, but still these two matters are intertwined, and certainly it would be worth supporting this proposal or initiative to do so both on the same day if we are already going to the referendum. In the final stage, it would be better to give this money for the Dragan allowance, because in this case it is a questionable referendum, whose fate is then very uncertain. I'm not talking about not trusting anyone, but experience shows that these research referendums, and also some previous ones, have not actually given any real answer, a real result - the answers have already been. Well, in this referendum, the answer will also be more pesky, and there will be no way to figure out what this is all about. In short. This proposal to hold the referendum on 29 June has salt, also has race, has thought and, of course, I would like all Members and Members to support this amendment. This would solve a number of complications, and in the end we would also show what you have warned about; it is said that a joint table should be set and agreed. We'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Applicants propose a 7-day delay that would set off the budget cash "split" over 500 million former monetary units. So, the amendment only follows that for 7 days, for one week, the referendum will be moved to allow two referendums to be held on the same day. This would halve costs, thus halving tasks and all those services accompanying the referendum period. In the context of the Lipa Group, we will use, on behalf of Boštjan Zagorec as Ambassador of Barbara Žgajner Tavš, last but not least in my time, we would have proposed to have a so-called "referendum day" in Slovenia. So, just one day on which all the potential referendums of that year would take place, just from following the so-called rationalisation, of course, would save money. In my firm belief, or better said, according to the opinion of the Lipa Group, by adopting this amendment: for the first time - they would show us that something is up to the state budget, and for the second time - that there is no referendum on the provinces, as well as the other envisaged referendum solely the fruit of political persecution of the election outcome. In our belief, we appeal to all present Members to support this idea, especially in monitoring or pursuing the goal of going exclusively for 7 days, one week compared to over 500 million former monetary units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u137	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm breaking up. I'm sorry. I was looking around, but I didn't see any hands. [[...]] Even the professional service that helped me didn't see her. Please raise your hand clearly for the second time, so you can see that you want the word. I'm opening the application. Mr. Gulic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u138	Respected and esteemed! Well, I've already told you how the Group of Members is going to decide. I'm going to support this motion for a lockdown myself. Of course, this will and desire, which the coalition or at least part of the coalition shows this time to question voters and voters, I am in some way supporting, even though I do not see any wise solution in this. But this is not because it would be against the referendum, but mainly because the questions are designed so that they do not give the right answers. The question that would be linked to the second referendum, for which we also propose this delay, raises two solutions. The point is that costs are reduced in some way. I don't think it's half, but it's a substantial reduction in the costs of both referendums, after all. It is also about the fact that participation would probably have been better if the two referendums were on the same day, but people would have dealt with the two issues that we are asking at once. And the third thing that I think is important to me is that, speaking of what the will of the people is, and as you say, Members of the coalition, on the ground, the will of the people has been seen, even when it comes to the issue of the existence of the anti-corruption commission. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] And that's where a series of polls showed that they were meant to exist. [[...]] And now, if you are so sure that the people are always right, then give him the right, ask both of you. And that would've worked out. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is clear that I will support the amendment, because there is no doubt that the referendum proposed will be voted on. And I understand the non-support to the amendment by: for the first time, citizens must not decide on anything that the President of the Government does not invent; and for the second time, that this majority part of the coalition wants to cause another cost for the referendum when this first one is without need. That is why I think it is right for everyone to think before you vote, and support this amendment, so that for one cost the citizens have the opportunity to answer two questions, if it has to be, although I repeat, I think it is unnecessary in its origin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u141	Thank you. Excuse me. I have some information to provide. You probably have not received it yet, but the proposal for a referendum on the anti-corruption commission has already been withdrawn by the proposer. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, in the past days, we have worked hard to reach this agreement at night, especially in the past, given that there are two referendums in the air and that one certainly shows that it will be voted on, it would make sense to carry them out at the same time. Unfortunately, this agreement has not been reached, and it also shows that it will not be possible to fulfil it, so we simply think it would make sense that even at the moment we all find that corruption and clientism in Slovenia is a problem and that at the same time the coalition has decided to abolish Kosovo's anti-corruption commission in order to ask citizens about it. However, the fact is that the applicants, among whom we are also from the Party of Truth, have told the public that if this agreement is not reached, we will not insist on a request for a referendum where citizens can say what they think about the coalition's intention to abolish the anti-corruption commission. That the anti-corruption commission is needed, recent events show us. Finally, the largest SDS party even proposed an extraordinary meeting to discuss this. In the air there is also a whole range of open topics that indicate that this is a problem from purchasing patriots further, where, of course, Finland is still working and can set a pattern for us in this, while we do not know how to say it as it should. [[....]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] And in this sense, we will still try to have both referendums held on June 29th, even though we know that hope [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn it off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u144	I was at a meeting of the Local Self-Government Committee yesterday. And those of you who don't know, at yesterday's session, we also discussed an amendment to the coalition, which was a move to start preparing for the referendum for one day, from 22 to 23. We were all wondering what the reason was for someone to move the date of the preparation for one day. Then we found out that some people weren't aware of this, but they knew: the coalition was moving this date because, assuming today that this decree was adopted, the decree was published in the Official Journal so that the second day would enter into force, that is 23. And here is the coalition itself, under the terms, "understand," why the date should move. When we came up with a proposal or proposed an amendment to move it and these activities would make it possible for the referendum to take place on the 29th, there was no speech, there was no hearing or listening and the result is here today, stubborn insistence on something that does not, if you look at it in a comparable way, really no basis. If this is the way the coalition members have been sworn, how is it necessary to ask the citizens of Slovenia what they think about the provinces, to decide which provinces they want to decide what territory of the province. Therefore, this incursion is available and the desire and the need for the people of Slovenia to declare themselves, because it is fatal for Slovenia, they have forgotten that it is also fatal for Slovenia to abolish the anti-corruption commission. It is therefore crucial for Slovenia to prevent a body concerned with prevention and prevention in dealing with corruption issues that are even more important than what may be relevant in some of the coalition heads in relation to the importance of the provinces, and so this analogy has, of course, "emphasized". It would therefore be such an amendment to support.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, Mr President, even with what you have just said, so that the second proposal is withdrawn, I must say that I, as far as this amendment is concerned, will abstain. This is because it doesn't matter whether we throw 3 million euros through the window on June 22nd or June 29th. Also because of my contact with the leader of the SDS Group, who found that this coalition was the first to propose regionalisation and everything he said Slovenia had over-centralised, I am signing under his conclusion. But the first is this coalition because this coalition was formerly an opposition and blocked the change of the Constitution. She did not have as much wisdom as the opposition had then to allow a change to the Constitution, so that any coalition would begin to think about regionalisation. And because it totally doesn't matter whether on 29 or 22 June they're going to decide on such non-bullying landscapes as was already in the first proposal of the fourteen provinces, when we had Kamnik-Zavsko, we now have, say, Central Slovenia. Because no one knows where he's going to sit, because they're going to fight about it, and so on and so forth. And since this proposal also involves mixing with Primorska and it would be good for this Primorska to think again about the resurrection, given how it is done with it, it was not possible for the electorate to decide what they really want. So it's about a single coastal landscape. Because of all this, it doesn't matter when we throw these 3 million euro out of the campaign window, and that's why it's up to you. You wrote yourself a question, you asked yourself out-out: either take thirteen or fourteen provinces or no provinces, and if you're not up for it, you're up against it. That's your answer. Have him and go to the referendum with him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I will still support this amendment, even though I agree with the previous speaker. But bad things people want to do as much as possible, and if I support this amendment, then one bad thing I'll do for at least a week. What kind of bad thing is this, we know - so, a referendum. The loss of so much and so much money, a completely unnecessary referendum forced by the position as political pressure on all those who disagreed with the proposed land legislation. This does not mean that we disagree with the provinces. That doesn't mean we're not for the provinces. We're not for that kind of province. I personally do not support the province at all costs. I would like to see regions that will provide opportunities for less developed environments to start catching up with more developed environments. This legislation does not allow this, nor does it ask the referendum question after that, asks the referendum question as to what the name of the province should be in some cases and what should be in them. In particular, it has never been disputed for Pomurje, whose municipalities belong to Pomurje and whose name is secondary, since the content is more important. But the content will not be decided at the referendum. Completely lost money, completely through the window thrown out assets. And then what will happen, why did you say it was political pressure? Because when people support this, because in Pomura we all agree, whose congregations "feed" in Pomuri, and then you will say, look, they are all for this, support this law. Nobody asks in the referendum whether the proposed law is okay - no, nobody asks! It seems to me that the content of the proposed law is controversial, I am talking about content, not about form, form and how it is packed, not about whether it will be a name or not. And for that, once again, the referendum is a waste. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u149	Thank you. I'm gonna ask somebody else. No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 76 Members present and 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendments and are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision to Call for a Consultative Referendum on the Regions of Slovenia. I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service have not informed me that the motion for a decision would be inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Members of Parliament, the application is pending. First of all, Mr Gulic's procedural proposal, the list of applicants is, of course, valid.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u150	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Because of everything that is going on in this vote, also because of the debates that have not actually brought anything new, because we have always objected to the fact that they are so drawn to the nose and to the Members and to the Slovenian public, for this vote, I am predicting obstruction for this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u151	Thank you. Mrs Zalokar Orzam also a procedural proposal, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u152	Thank you very much. As this long debate has already been clear and repeatedly said by our Group of Members, it is not a question of whether we are in favour or against the provinces, but we need to ask ourselves, above all, whether such a referendum is a suitable solution for what we expect, whether it comes from the proper and professionally thought-out line we are offering, whether what we expect is what we expect and what will result from the answers, which can help us to develop later informed and appropriate solutions to regionalisation. Because in our Group of Members we believe that this is not the case and that it is a matter of manipulating citizens and citizens who are supposed to be lured in a false democratic way to make decisions and in fact they will not decide anything and we will not get any basis for quality decisions in the future, even on behalf of our Group of Members, I predict obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Run, please. It's probably a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u154	Yeah. Thank you very much. Social Democrats will not participate in the final decision on the call for a consultative referendum on the establishment of landscape areas. Over the last few days, we have tried to show the ruling coalition that the content of the proposed referendum is not worthwhile and will not allow for the free expression of the will of citizens and citizens, will make it even more difficult to explain what is actually under many of the questions and the answers that are envisaged, represent and want. We have proposed alternative proposals that, in our opinion, would be more acceptable, we have proposed alternative deadlines and complementary questions - all of this has been rejected. Even after a substantive debate, we found that we do not want to hear each other. You said you wanted to cooperate. Who it depends on to cooperate - you have, gentlemen, the majority! If you decide and attend extraordinary meetings, if you make decisions, even when you are warned that the content is not agreed upon, then cooperation is in your hands. It's always been like this. You say and you explain that we have no arguments, and all the time we talk about arguments, you sit on your ears and you don't want to hear them. You claim only one and the same thing that we do not want the regionalisation of Slovenia, which is not true. We want regionalisation, but in its entirety, and such a question in the referendum if it has to be and if we do not know how to agree, which will really enable answers and clear views. I will tell you again, ladies and gentlemen, if it is possible in a future province with 5 or 30 congregations to find unique answers for each congregation, and if you know what the decision and will of the electorate means, then you will have every honor! The Law and Legal Affairs Service has made it clear that the questions, as you have asked them, and the answers, as you have given them, do not allow for a uniform answer. And she warned us that we would talk about it, not to argue, or to have different opinions after the referendum. This is what you have achieved with these questions. And you will also manipulate after the referendum, as you have manipulated now. This is not a good trip to establishing the provinces, and we will not take part in this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Peche. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The envisaged act, which is in the final stage before the vote, will allow citizens and citizens only one decision: whether you are for 13 provinces or not for 13 provinces. But the fact is, it's also a very clever question and it's not the people themselves who are asking about 13 provinces, but it's only through the dictatorship that they're asking if you're up for living in this country. In the Lipa Group, we offered you constitutional changes some time ago to record the number of provinces in the Constitution. I believe personally and within the framework of the parliamentary group in a small number of provinces, in the provinces that would be able to survive both financially and survive through the tasks performed in terms of satisfying the interests of their citizens. 13 landscapes, as far as you offer them, mean fragmentation, fragmentation in financial, liability and in terms of defining individual tasks. We also offered you in the Lipa Group this year a law on the establishment of a small number of provinces. But everything has always been answered: no. This time in the Lipa Group, we'll tell you, "No."and we do not want to take part in the invitation to tender or the adoption of the aforementioned decree, which clarifies Slovenia. That is why, on behalf of the Group of Members, I also predict the obstruction of the Member and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u157	Thank you. The obstruction of the point or the vote was announced by SNS, LDS, Zares, SD and Lipa. We are moving on to a full vote on the decree. I ask once again on behalf of the groups of Members - an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Clavor, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u158	I'd like to explain my voice in my own name and say that. Yesterday I was present or tonight on the committee that discussed this. To the incorrect comments of some that I did not have the authority, I say that as Vice-President of the National Assembly, you would never have allowed it. That's the first one. Second. I am a Member of the National Assembly elected by the party DeSUS and this party I also belong to. Although I signed and later withdrew my signature, I withdrew it when I read the final proposal for this decree to the day before yesterday, and at the same time yesterday at 12 p.m., when the meeting of the leadership of the party DeSUS, I listened to their opinion, which was united and I respected and forwarded it further. Even with your vote. And the third time. I'm an MP from Posoč, I live in Goriška, and I know the beat of this province. If my constituents and most of the voters in this province are for one province, I'll listen to it. I was very pleased that the questionnaire also contained what should be: Goriška or Northern Primorska? Let people decide for themselves, not rape them with one and the other. This is my opinion, and I think that I have followed my conscience to the benefit of those who will later make decisions in content. That is all I wanted to say, and I also respect the opinions of my colleagues, which is different.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u159	Thank you. Well, that opinion was on its own. I'm asking if anyone else wants it. I see two hands. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u160	Thank you very much. In line with my already expressed opinion, I will vote against it for two reasons. First of all, because I think we're going to spend the money that we could spend on the poor, but unfortunately, many people think that we can get along even when you don't have it. Second, because my absence would have no effect or effect. That's why I'm going to object. If I could prevent the adoption of this decree, I'd be missing from the session, but I won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u162	My position on the establishment of the provinces has not changed from the previous mandate when the project was led by Social Democracy. My arguments do not convince me that the project of establishing the landscapes will in fact constitute more coherent regional development. Data showing a great deal of non-conformity in development, but currently no studies show how relatively well-coordinated legislation will lead to more coherent regional development in the next 10 years - of course this study would be good to have before it. I think that the investment assets remaining in the provinces are significantly too small. It is an infrastructure that is highly nourished, which will move to the provinces. And I still think that it would be the best way to stick to the content of the coalition treaty, which I think has tried in the right way to resolve these regional differences. The second aspect, however, is procedural and substantive in my opinion. I think that at this point Slovenia needs to clean up local self-government. Right now, we're getting a little out of hand. The municipalities are becoming in some way a self-sustaining unit led by the mayors of some willfully, there is no control of the rule of law, even financial transparency is increasing, and I think that this should first be done and the work of local self-government stabilized, then at least parallel should be done with the process of establishing the provinces. And the third reason is procedural. I think it was a mistake to change the constitution. If we wanted to ask people, we should ask them whether they agree with the change in the Constitution and whether they agree with the content of the legislation that will determine the jurisdiction of the provinces and now whether they agree with the areas and names of the provinces. Therefore, unfortunately, I cannot support this proposal. However, I certainly hope that I am wrong and that time will show a better situation than I am now assessing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u163	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote, the ruling, is fully under way. There are 49 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And I invite ambassadors and members of the opposition parties to join us, because we are moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a 2008 AGREEMENT ON THE ANNUAL DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL PLAN The annual plan was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the annual plan. Mr. Minister, mag. Radovan Žerjav, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Before you is the 2008 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Highways, totalling 832 million euros, which represents a 13% increase compared to the annual plan for last year. A total of €666 million is earmarked for the development and renewal of motorways, which is 11.5% increase compared to the year before. This is therefore the largest construction in the history of the implementation of the motorway programme. This year, 80 km of four - lane highways, 11 km of fast roads, and 3 km of connecting roads will be put on the market according to this annual plan. This year, traffic will also be given 7.8 kilometers long on the Maribor-Lenart motorway section, which was scheduled in accordance with the 2007 annual plan for the transfer of traffic in December last year. In total, this year's annual transport plan will provide 101.9 kilometres of motorways and other roads from the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia. According to the annual plan, the following sections on the pomurski leg, highway sections of a total length of 68 kilometres, namely Lenart-Spodnja Senarska, Lower Senarska-Cogetinci, Cogetinci-Vučja vas, Beltinci-Lendava and Lendava-Pince will be dedicated in this year's transport year. On the Styrian leg: motorway section of Pesnica-Slivnica and part of the Subsection of Pesnica-Zrkovska road. On the upper leg: the motorway section of Vrba-Peračica and Šentvid-Kosese. On the coastline: connecting to the port of Koper, phase one. On the lower leg: the motorway section of Lesnica-Kronovo. On the vipava leg: section over the Rebernics. On the Podravsko foot: Subsection of the international border crossing of Gruškovje, state border. In addition, in 2008, construction will continue on 46 km of four - lane highways, on 5 km of fast roads, and on 2 km of connecting roads. Further construction will take place on the following motorways or on the following sections: on the Štajerska footstep on the motorway section Pesnica-Slivnica, Subsection Pesnica-Zrkovska road, Subsection Zrkovska cesta-Ptujska cesta and Subsection Nova Zrkovska cesta, in a certain length of course; on the Podravska leg motorway section Slivnica-Gruškovje, Subsection Slivnica-Drazenci, on the coastal leg section of the rapid road Koper-Isol; on the mountain foot of the motorway section Peracica-Podtabor and on the lower leg of the motorway section Pluska-Ponikve and Ponikve-Hrastje. The financial resources for the implementation of the 2008 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways will be: budgetary resources, European funds, concession fees, loans from international financial institutions and foreign loans, bonds and value added tax reimbursement. In the provision of finance from investment transfers, resources for the construction of motorways in the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia are provided under the Law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of motorways of EUR 15.5 million. The European Cohesion Fund is expected to provide €131 million in the most optimistic way. As part of the funds obtained from loans from international financial institutions and foreign credits, it is envisaged that loans from international financial institutions totalling EUR 176 million will be drawn up in 2008. Bonds or loans depend on the situation in the financial markets estimated at EUR 413 million. The concession fee will amount to € 125 million in 2008 and a VAT refund of €85 million. In total, the estimated resources for the implementation of the annual development plan and the renewal of motorways for 2008 amount to EUR 948.2 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The annual plan was considered by the Transport Committee as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the committee, Comrade Joseph Bajc, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u166	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Transport Committee shall be held at its 27th meeting, on 8. On 5th this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia addressed the annual development plan and the restoration of motorways for 2008, which was forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration in accordance with Article 3 of the Law on the Society for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia. In the introductory explanation, the Minister of Mag. Radovan Žerjav presented the main highlights of the annual plan, totalling 832 million euros, which represents a 13% increase compared to last year's annual plan. A total of €666 million is earmarked for the development and renewal of motorways, which means an 11.5% increase compared to the year before. The financial resources for the implementation of the 2008 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways will be budgetary resources, European Community funds, concession fees, loans to international financial institutions and foreign credits, and bonds and value added tax reimbursements. The proposal for an annual plan was also given an opinion by the State Council, which supports the proposal for an annual plan, noting that the introduction of vignettes is unlikely to guarantee the principle of fairness, as well as a trend towards an increase in the share of loans hired. And that a thorough analysis is needed on the long-term effects of additional debt for construction and maintenance of motorways. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly notes that the proposed annual plan of the current year is designed in the same way as the previous year. Comments that have been taken into account, however, are repeated by the Legislative and Legal Service. From a legal and systemic point of view, it would be necessary to adopt a separate law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads, as well as the rebalancing of the highway construction programme. In the debate, members of the Committee considered the 2008 Annual Development Plan and the reconstruction of the motorway to be a major project, which will almost fully ensure the completion of the motorway cross in Slovenia. The individual questions raised by the members of the Committee concerned the completion of individual sections of the motorway programme. However, most of the discussions were focused on how to finance a highway programme that is increasingly relying on credit funds. They also considered that changes to the National Development Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia should also be made when the proposed act was being considered. Following the discussion, the Transport Committee adopted a decision: The Committee of the National Transport Assembly, following a discussion under Articles 112 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, invites the National Assembly to consider and adopt at its meeting the following decision: "On the basis of Article 3a of the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly adopted a decision at its meeting on the consent to the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways in 2008. The National Assembly agrees to the 2008 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways, which was adopted and forwarded to the National Assembly by the Government 25. 4. 2008." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Comrade Bajc. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. We will be joined by colleague Maria Pozsonec with a presentation of the position of the national community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u168	Thank you. Nice greetings to all present! Well, it's finally about the suburban highway. The Annual Road Development and Renewal Plan 2008 is a major project that will ensure the completion of the highway cross in Slovenia almost entirely. Thus, the construction of the motorway cross was almost complete in 2008. However, while the motorway network is being built, it is still under-focused on the modernisation and restoration of other state roads, as despite the long-standing warnings on the necessity of preparing a stationary programme for the construction and renewal of other state roads in this document, the National Assembly has not yet received a hearing. The Beltinci-Pince section of 17.4 kilometres is expected to be dedicated to traffic in August 2008. Until then, work will continue and be completed on the highway, the connection of Turnišče and Gančani and the resting area of Dolinsko. The defensive layer will be carried out on all rolling surfaces, the ecological arrangements of the route will be completed, traffic signalling and equipment will be carried out. Security measures will be implemented for the development of construction transport on state and local roads. The Lendava-Pince section, 16.7 kilometres long, is also expected to be placed on the market in August 2008. Until then, construction works on the highway, viaduct and overpasses will continue and be completed. Public awareness and measures to increase pedestrian safety on state roads will be carried out. However, we cannot pass without saying, on this occasion, that there will be a 10-year delay, but a motorway in Prekmurje will be completed. It's a pleasure to meet you. It's a shame it's been done so far because we've dragged it away for so long. I could say that planned delays are priceless and reflect on the health of people, the damage is reflected in buildings, dozens of lives that have been extinguished on the roadside and damage suffered by the gloomy economy. Minister Bozič and Minister Žerjav have done everything they can to save the G1-3 unsustainable situation, and we thank them for their efforts. We can appreciate that effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Hrovat will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! The proposal for an annual road development and renewal plan for 2008 is based on a resolution on the national highway construction programme in our country. The total value of this project represents a 13% increase compared to the 2007 plan. There has also been an increase in the line for the development and renewal of motorways and it is indeed the largest construction in the history of the implementation of the motorway programme. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the proposal for this plan, because we are aware that a highway connection is in place and that in this regard it is necessary to build infrastructure an important factor for the development of our country. This year, 80 km of four - lane highways, 11 km of fast roads, and 3 km of connecting roads will be put on the market according to this annual plan. Together, this year, more than 100 km of motorways and other roads from the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia will be dedicated in line with the annual transport plan. On the basis of the material, we can see that the financial resources for the implementation of the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2008, the budgetary resources, the European funds, the concession fees, credits from international financial institutions, bonds and value added tax refunds. In the provision of finance from investment transfers, resources for the construction of motorways in the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia are provided for the construction of motorways of EUR 15.5 million and, together with other resources, the implementation of the annual development plan and the renewal of motorways for 2008 is covered. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we positively assess the intention of preparing in 2008 project and technical and other documentation for all sections of the national programme for which regulations on national location plans or State spatial plans have not yet been adopted and for all sections for which construction is expected after 2008. The same applies to the construction of some state-owned connecting roads, which allow for a better linkage of wider urban areas to the motorway network. We can also commend the investment renewal plan for vehicles and infrastructure facilities, as we are aware that this is an essential part of the annual plan that we are adopting today. Some words in the material are also intended to introduce a new way of tolling through vignettes, which brings some changes and activities in relation to the restructuring of existing toll stations, to which the Government has responded appropriately and in fact the latest details in this regard are being regulated. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the proposal for an annual road map for 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u172	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a decision on an agreement on the annual development plan for the renewal of motorways for 2008 to be adopted by the National Assembly is one of the very important decisions, which must be based on an act on which the National Assembly could determine whether or not it could adopt this decision. In fact, the basis for the adoption of the annual programmes is the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, and the resolution alone is the one that gives insight into whether an annual programme is consistent with a resolution or a resignation. Unfortunately, we note that the characteristic of this annual programme, in addition to extremely late treatment in the National Assembly, is also the far largest amount of debt in the history of the implementation of motorways. We need to know that Darsa's current debt is 3.5 billion euros. In this annual programme, we owe an additional EUR 589 million. And even if we look at the resources they're moving away from the national programme resolution of 155.4%. In short, it is an extremely different source of funding - 155.4%, which we really need to worry about in the National Assembly or we can even deal with a document that does not actually have a basis in the basic act, this is the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways. If we add to this the fact that only €15.5 million in this annual programme is earmarked for the construction of state roads, we can also find that we have no explanation whatsoever why such a derogation was made, since the resolution originally envisaged €130 million for this year from the earmarked funds for the construction of state roads. The National Assembly has nowhere to be explained why these funds are not provided at such an amount this year. Otherwise, there is a larger amount, as foreseen in the resolution, from the Cohesion Fund or from European funds, of EUR 131 million. The existing resolution did not provide for the absorption of these funds, but we may wonder whether the actual volume of cohesion funds is optimal or whether more resources could be made available from Europe, thereby reducing Dars' debt and also later accepting the Republic of Slovenia's guarantees for this debt if Dars, of course, would not be able to repay it. These are all very important questions, to which the National Assembly does not receive answers throughout this mandate. And there is no answer when the liabilities from the leased loans will be repaid. After the resolution in force, it paid off 2020. During a period of time, we met with the information that this year is 2040. Today, we can be very serious about whether this year holds, for surely the 2070 is approaching, like the one that is supposed to be the year when the debts to build highways will be paid. In short, it is a truly important decision for which the National Assembly does not have the relevant acts and grounds to be able to make a competent decision. If we add to this a change in the toll system without serious analysis, a very large question can be asked whether Dars will actually be able to repay all these credits, because the new system, we do not know how it will live, whether it will actually be as successful as it appears, and whether there will be more costs than if we could upgrade the existing toll system. But on these issues, of course, the Government does not want to talk and also to present us with the relevant arguments. So this is a really very vague decision that will have consequences in the coming years, especially after the end of this government's mandate. An even bigger question is asked, in the case of the Social Democrats, what has actually happened to the EUR 1.98 billion that the previous government has earmarked to provide these funds from the state budget rather than to draw on the means of education. In addition to highways in Slovenia, we also have other state roads, and it would be nice and good if we also had a national programme for other state roads, on the basis of which we could determine when the main roads of the first order, second order, regional roads will be updated, when all those settlements and cities that are outside the highway cross will be connected to the highway cross with modern road connections. Unfortunately, such a national programme has not been submitted by the Government, although the cost assessment for the modernisation of other state roads was EUR 3 billion, and if I recall that the resolution provided for 2 billion from the state budget, such a document could certainly be adopted by the National Assembly in this mandate. In short, the fact and feeling that a very large motorway will be built this year and that this is a very great success is misleading and, above all, misleading, because the consequences will be known mainly on other state roads and, above all, on developmental axes, where we find that there are no resources to build development axes that would link the most underdeveloped parts of Slovenia to the highway and thus to the fifth and tenth European corridor. So there is no way we can be satisfied with this way of doing things. We are aware that the annual programme is the basis for the construction and completion of the motorway cross and that it is difficult to reject it, but we note that the way and procedure we are dealing with this annual programme is really not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Comrade Geza Juban will present the position of the Group of Members of the Club Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the proposal for a decision on the annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways for 2008. This may be a very brief comment, with a lower criticism in the first part. In view of the fact that it is already 22 May and only now we are discussing the annual road development and renewal plan, when we could actually hear the first half of the year's reality report within a bad month. For the second part of the implementation of this programme, which we have before us, we do not have great concerns either because we are in an election year and at all ends the effort has been made to open up sections of the motorway at this time, which is probably before each election. However, we have serious concerns about the work that talks about funding the programme itself for this year and for the future, which is also the next item on the agenda. Warnings already present both by Dars and by the Legal and Legislative Service, and by a number of other financiers, that Dars will not be able to pay back the credits that have been leased so far. Solutions are being sought to transfer Dars' debts or to build highways somewhere else to government budgets or something like that. In fact, it is predicted that some parts of Darsa's debt would be transferred to the state budget on the grounds that some of the roads built under this programme do not belong to it and should be excluded and resolved financially elsewhere. We wonder how this was not known when this happened and another solution is now being sought. We agree with the Legislative and Legal Service, which also discusses that such different solutions should be systematically resolved in other acts and that a simple transfer of such large financial burdens to the budget or elsewhere is not possible. This needs to be carefully considered.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Member Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. I warmly welcome, on behalf of the Group of Members, colleagues and the Minister of Mags. We're eating with our coworkers! We are considering an extremely important document, the 2008 Annual Plan for the Development and Reconstruction of Highways. After almost a stop to the construction of the motorway in the Republic of Slovenia in 2002, except in Dolenjska, we have been facing a combination of activities in the area of the construction of the highway system in Slovenia over the last three years. The record ambitious plan for 2008 is the financial burden of €832 million, which is about 10% of the Slovenian budget, although the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will only contribute €15.5 million in 2008. In particular, we welcome the Government's efforts at this point to seek from the European Cohesion Fund a good EUR 130 million for the construction of the highway system. As we see, I would like to point this out myself, it is the largest construction in the history of the construction of the highway system in Slovenia. In accordance with this annual transport plan, this year the motorway sections will also be dedicated to allowing us finally to take the highway from the eastern Slovenian gates all the way to the Adriatic Sea. This will also be the end of the Calvary for the inhabitants of Pomurje, my cousins, who, four years after the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union, patiently bear the unbearable effects, the unbearable burdens of five thousand trucks per day, plus the effects of internal traffic. It's a real unbearable problem. It should be pointed out, however, that the Ministry of Transport and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have done everything rationally and at a given time to alleviate these problems. Let me say that approximately EUR 17 million has been invested in the rehabilitation and smoothing of traffic on the G1-3 road in three years. The following year it will be 90 years since Prekmurje was associated with Motherhood Slovenia. This year Prekmurje as the last region will finally be connected to Slovenia or Slovenia as a highway diagonal. There is no alternative but to continue to build the highway system until it is upgraded by this way of construction and by this dynamic Slovenia. Of course, only until the funding system is sustainable. When it is too risky, it will be necessary to find other solutions. I would like to emphasise something else in this place, if you will, ladies and gentlemen, if you allow me. On the one hand, people experience terrible stress with increasing traffic on state roads, as well as stressful situations along highway construction sites and with everything related to the construction site. Most of this construction is understood as our joint project, which needs to be supported, although most often only morally and by no means blocked. Unfortunately, in recent times we have been faced with various blackmails when, for example, the Minister of Transport and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are required to perform simple miracles. Otherwise, I cannot interpret the requirements for an unrealistic shortening of deadlines after the halfway opening of motorway sections, which would by the way be accompanied by unheard-of dangers in road transport. I suppose this is not the case with the irrationality of pre-election time. That is why I call on everyone from this city to be patient and to support highway projects in order to build a highway system in Slovenia as soon as possible, and that is why we will all gain it, especially in the area of security. Traffic safety or safety in the broadest sense of the word, however, is a value that is worth being tolerated, even politically tolerated. The New Slovenia Group will vote in favour of the 2008 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by a colleague, Josip Bajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u178	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! Ahead of us is the 2008 Annual Plan for Development and Reconstruction of the Highway. Its value, as I said earlier in the Committee's position, amounts to EUR 832 million and represents a significant increase in relation to the previous year. Together it will be dedicated this year, at least we can hope, 102 km of motorways and other roads from the national programme. In the Slovenian People's Party we are happy and proud that the construction of the highway cross is slowly nearing its end. As responsible members of the coalition, we actively participated in its construction earlier and today. This year's construction funds are record-breaking, indicating that construction is really fast approaching its end. All the legs of the cross are slowly finishing, with new questions and needs already emerging. We all find that some sections would already need a third belt. The consensus on the third axis has already been reached, while freight traffic on Slovenian motorways is also greatly increasing, which is already burdening or overloading most of the time. How we deal with these new challenges and these new challenges is a new issue. Construction of the Slovenian highway cross was and is still a huge financial asset. With this government's mandate, for the first time, we have also dedicated enormous resources to the construction and reconstruction of state roads, which are badly needed, and we agree with this for the most part. We have recategorised the means of building these roads from the funds that have been used in recent years to build motorways and have thus decided on a different way of financing motorways as has been used in the past. Most of the concerns, questions and fears have been expressed in the debates so far on this subject, on the subject of financing the construction of motorways and on the financial sustainability of the Directorate for State Roads. Some of these solutions show that, with the cost of building and completing the highway cross, we impose obligations on future generations, as if we had done it for the first time and as if we were doing it for the first time with this law. And as a colleague earlier said in his presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group, at some other level, party colleagues are threatening to lock up highways if three or four months before the contractually agreed deadlines are not completed. In the Slovenian People's Party, we disagree with these findings. It seems fairer to us that the construction of highways should be paid by users and not by all taxpayers. And we expect to make the payment as soon as possible by miles along the highway. The decision to finance the construction and renovation of roads from the toll collected is correct and supported. As it is said, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the 2008 proposal for a plan for the construction and reconstruction of motorways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors is indeed to be presented by Alojz Posedel, but the last moment has come to a change. Comrade Tarchoon, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, representatives of Dars, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will really support the annual development plan and the reconstruction of the motorway. However, I must say that we ourselves have a lot of concerns and comments that have been made by the various parliamentary groups in the debate so far. I would like to join some of them, and I would like to stress some of them in particular. So if our highway program and the highway project started many years ago and was very ambitious and it was announced that it would be completed very soon, the truth is that all of this was very delayed. The first question we ask ourselves is: How many of these annual plans, which were in different coalitions under different ministers and different leaderships of Darsa, are real? And we ask ourselves: Is it not as realistic as the estimated values of these motorways and the contractual values of motorways, which usually grow strongly with various annexes at the end of the situation? Just as the distance is proportionally extended, the construction of motorways is extended. It may be too late to ask whether we have even chosen the right system to build such an infrastructure, given that we take it, I directly agree that we are just before the end, but we are in some final phase. I think it will take a few more years for us to build key motorway sections on the key European corridors, but the fact that we should have a highway cross in the near future, as it is intended, is at the end. In doing so, I would also point out the need to build some motorways, such as Phyrnska, that they have not even made preparations for the highway connection between Italy or between Trieste and Kvarner, which is, however possible, less from a Slovenian perspective, and certainly from a European point of view, very important. Like I said, maybe it's not the right time to talk about a new system right now, and the system has changed in some way. From the original intentions of financing this from a gas toll to those famous thirds: gas toll, own resources and debt, we have come into a system that is mainly fueled by debt and which returns mainly by toll. But the fact is, by building highways, we are late to have new problems approaching us. I agree that, however, in the East-West section in the very near future, we will need additional belts, as is the case in Europe, because traffic is becoming unsustainable, probably also some other traffic regulation, so that trucks will be able to move away and not get ahead of our short sections. In particular, I would like to point out that, as a country, we are comparatively very persistent in these reconstruction works, which are certainly necessary. However, if you drive through Slovenia on 100 km sections, you will see a couple of maintenance areas where traffic narrows down and so on. I think we could learn something from other countries where they have this, regardless of whether maintenance works are necessary, but you know, if they were there, with the traffic they have -- if I was looking at neighbouring Italy or Germany, at 100 kilometers, they'd make 5 stops, I don't know how it would go. I recently drove 600 kilometers to Torin, and there were two maintenance parts on the road, and they were elegantly taken. So there will certainly be a few more reflections to be made, but I would particularly like to point out that the network of state roads remains extremely neglected and, of course, that we are putting more credit arrangements, significantly more, into motorways, although there are also other possibilities for motorways - perhaps some are also delayed - than we will have the possibility of such an arrangement for rail infrastructure, not to talk about any other. In any event, this year's plan is ambitiously set, and financial arrangements will also be followed accordingly, in terms of burden. Nevertheless, we support this highway programme and note these shortcomings. But we also have a big question: Will our operational financial ability to return these loans regularly be enabled by setting up a vignette system and such arrangements, including heights and prices? Time will tell, but we think that further consideration will be needed. Otherwise, we support the program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u181	Thank you very much. However, colleague Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. Ambassadors and MPs, Mr. Minister with the team. The annual road development and renewal plan is the most important planning act for the current year, which provides for the construction and renewal of road sections included in the National Road Construction Programme in the Republic of Slovenia and the decision of the Government to agree to this act in the DeSUS Group, of course we support. According to the annual plan, this year several sections will be dedicated to the entire Republic of Slovenia, 101.9 kilometres of motorways and other roads from the National Road Construction Programme. In a transparent manner, the annual plan also broken down financial resources for the implementation of this development plan and the renewal of motorways for 2008 covering budgetary resources, European funds, concessional benefits, loans from international financial institutions and foreign credits, bonds and VAT reimbursements. The total value is therefore 832 million euros, which represents a 13% increase in the previous year. As has already been said, our Group will support this act as it is based on the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways, which we have adopted, based on the Law on the Society for Motorways and other applicable legislation. Nevertheless, we feel that it is appropriate and necessary to express criticism of the work of the Ministry of Transport or the Government, which is today 22 May when we consider the proposal for a decision on consent to this act. The Government sent him to the legislative procedure on 12 March 2008. The annual plan is to be prepared and adopted at the end of the year for the following year, which is expected to be adopted by the end of 2007, not that we have almost already moved to the second half of 2008 when we are adopting the 2008 Annual Development Plan. Although such behaviour is a constant practice, it was only in 2003 that the time frame was reached. This comment is merely a reminder that, with greater responsibility, in particular as regards timeliness, approaches are being made to the preparation of the professional basis and draft annual plan. Given that there is currently anarchy on Slovenian roads requiring its blood tax, DeSUS Members understand this plan also as an element in contributing to greater road safety and also as a contribution to improving the quality of living, especially for those living in poorly regulated areas. We will therefore contribute to the adoption of a decision on agreement on the Annual Development Plan and the renewal of motorways for 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u183	Thank you very much. My colleague, Happy Friend, will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of Darsa, colleague and colleague! In Slovenia, we probably already know, it is not a problem to build and build road infrastructure, we can do it and we know it well, the question is when and how. However, we know that it is difficult, somehow, to oppose the proposal they are offering today, this is the proposal for a decision on agreement to the 2008 Annual Plan for the Development of Motorways and the fact that Slovenia really needs motorways, but when we do not oppose it, we also want to express our thoughts, which are probably also necessary to be taken into account as a serious responsibility by the representatives of the Ministry. First of all, I'd like to highlight the quality of construction. Almost every contract has an annex to the contract, and of course the minister is not interested in anything. The quality of construction in itself can be seen in rehabilitation. For example, through the tunnels we've been driving up to the last 60 kilometers an hour. And the protection of this good, for which we all expect so hard to be completed and rounded, will soon disappear because the highways are overloaded. They are overloaded with a heavier transit cargo, which, according to our assessment, the Slovenian National Party is unwarranted at such a low price as to "transit" Slovenia. Of course, these are "truck" transports, which not only destroy motorways, but also ecologically and otherwise threaten Slovenia. And we have repeatedly addressed to the Minister, the current and the previous, a request, a very clear demand that this kind of traffic be diverted to the railways. Mr Peter Verlič, my colleague, also works in the composition of the Ministry, and he will certainly argue that this would not be a problem at all, for example, if we do not already have such a car technique alone, these wagons can be rented and we can reduce the load on the highways by half tomorrow. But basic trains are somehow not interested in the government, and we probably won't be able to solve this for a long time. And the question is, by the time we have quality roads, because we know that there are already so-called crash pits on the highway surfaces, which can become very dangerous in the first rain, because they cause some turbulence, which at high speeds can be boosted by unforeseen accidents; that is why so many repairs. And last but not least, 12% increase in this consumption. In this respect, I would like to point out or ask the representatives of the ministry whether a new toll will also give us a guarantee that all debts that are already billions can be repaid by so-called new tolls. It is also necessary to take into account the new costs incurred by the control. We're launching a new highway control, which will be 60 new vehicles. Of course, given who will print our so-called road vineyards, the question is whether we have sufficient proper protection against the abuse of this modern method of tolling, because we know that they will be printed, as is the case on the Internet, by Czech entrepreneurs. In short, I am referring a number of questions in this context to the Minister. However, I believe that because he will not be able to do something in time, he does not need to resign because the money for the construction of motorways is provided in the guarantee laws. These are only procedures that are necessary and I think that, above all, in this implementation context, it would be possible to see a lot more quality products. And once again I appeal to the Minister to take a little look at those contracts, and to ask why almost every contract has been added an annex, which greatly increases the value of highway programs, and therefore I am not surprised by the increase in consumption in the construction of the last sections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u185	Thank you, too. The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Mr Boztjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The vast majority of my predecessors spoke of the importance of this act for the construction of Slovenian motorways. There are some who break a copy, as well as the existence of both the former and the current minister, so believe me, we are really taking an important act. But it is true that this is an act that simply means a plan by content. The plan, which is made, is very sovereign, ambitious and foresees a number of constructions and maintenance of the highway program in our country, and simply, whoever opposes such a plan, will then quickly get a reading on the back, and you are not for highways in our country. That is why it is almost impossible to oppose such a plan. The second question is whether such a plan is actually feasible and whether our country is capable of financing it as proposed. Perhaps it would make sense if we could combine the debate on this point and the debate on the next item, perhaps this would make sense. Because they're very tightly connected to each other. If we just want to focus on the plan, it seems to me that there is not much to say, like the construction and maintenance of almost all motorways in the national highway construction programme. But the second question is, and I will ask him how understandable it is: Who will pay for all this? Who do we burden to realize such sovereign things? If I'm trying to clear things up a little bit, by 31st. 12. 2007 was the actual state of Darsa, which is said to be the principal without interest, but I am talking about the debt of EUR 377 million 983 thousand 952 and the debt of EUR 3.77 billion on that day. In 2008, or the procedure for renting a new loan to finance certain motorway sections of Lendava-Pince will be initiated, connecting to the port of Koper, Koper-Isol, Vrba-Peračica, Lesnica-Krovno, Hajdin-Ptuj amounting to EUR 145.70 million. One new loan of €70.40 million at Dars' expense and for the construction of motorways will be leased as planned this year. Somehow the total state guarantee, or Dars' debt until 2013, as the main national programme, is expected to amount to EUR 5.459 billion. Who are we referring to? We put all this together on the country and the country consists of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Darsa, I must say that, apart from us politicians or his work, no citizen or citizen of this country knows to visit. And I'm asking you, colleagues, would you like to ask someone you don't know to marry, not for that money, for some other money, maybe a little less? You don't know if he's gonna make this happen. Most of the debt Dars paid on the basis of, in my opinion and belief of the Lip Group of Members, not even such a successful new form of introduction of toll stations, is said to be an open form of tolling. I have to congratulate this government for an extremely political or pre-election move called guilt, because at such a price as we are now driving on our highways, they are not driving anywhere. Indeed, we will be driving literally for half a year or one year, literally free, and it is a wonderful pre-election move, which will have consequences, as we have warned in the Lipa Group, also a certain reduction in resources for Dars, despite having authorized him to implement criminal legislation in the area of violations of this law. But we already know that they could have bought so many and so many new vehicles and all those things that cost something. And by reducing their ability to repay certain loans, we are increasingly thinking that the country may have to guarantee once and for all, this guarantee will be enforced. Maybe then there will be no more me in this house, maybe then the Minister will not be Mr. Zerjava, maybe any of you will not be in this house anymore, but we will pay anyway, whether we are in this house or not. Citizens and citizens will then have to pay because they are the ones who are filling our national budget. In fact, we have now made it possible or we have brought this guarantee for the construction of the highway so far that perhaps Dars will even come forward sometime and say: ‘Your country is your wedding, please settle your obligations, because I am no longer able to settle them. A very similar story to railways, we "futra" it since its independence at least twice every year, and we still hear that we do not have enough basic pressure to get the trucks on the railways. Then it's like "further" almost like "further" in the void if in 12 years such things can't be done. These debts are a very risky matter, and as long as time permits, at the next point when it comes to guarantees, we will say more about these debts. As far as maintaining or restoring highways is concerned, I must say, the minister of a few words we exchanged yesterday on this subject, I ask you not to take them as criticism, but as an initiative, as a matter of thought. From Maribor to Slovenska Bistrica this morning the driver spent, leaving Maribor, 55 minutes. The average speed was 12.4 kilometers per hour. When I arrived at the toll station in Fight, I paid the toll, and they even charged me. Why? What's the limit on the highway?Oh, my God! 130? No, 12.7. An indescribable column of vehicles has accumulated on this short route. Then there were some more works or maintenance to Ljubljana, and also at all other toll stations they gladly took the whole toll. It seems to me that this is wrong, Minister, and that some things in this direction should be done when such maintenance works are carried out on highways. I understand they're urgent. Believe me, it's not me or not most people who drive cars, the biggest culprit for having to happen, but it seems to me that it's unfair to pay even the toll for the "comfort" we don't have. It's not anywhere. It only happens to us. I believe Dars needs the money, just because of the numbers I told you about before, I believe he needs it. But we, or this coalition, are the ones who have made this revenue of Darsa with individual forms and administration of the ministry so far ahead of Minister Žagar that they will once again be those guarantees; Sorry, Žerjavom, I apologize. "Lappus." We had a similar last name for six hours before; it brought them so far that one day these guarantees would come into force and this country would really have to cover them. But it's not fair to people to take their entire toll for 55 minutes on a 20-mile drive. Maybe it's like one thought. And as a second thought on the part of the Lip Group, that this urgent maintenance work or maintenance work would not be carried out during the tourist season. And perhaps just a few more words on the subject of the Premur committee, which may allow the media to hear that your ministry hangs on the thread because of their demands. You know if you're trying to understand them. They only use instruments that people have become accustomed to under the auspices of the government of Janez Janša. The government of Janez Janša is the one who does not accept anything and when it sees that something cannot be achieved, blackmail is decided. And these people are just getting used to these habits, and now they're doing the same thing, Minister, with you. Despite the deadline for the construction of the highway month December, they want it in August. Despite the fact that the referendum on the provinces is totally "crazy", someone in this government imagined that there must be and was therefore blackmailing someone else from the government coalition to sit in here today despite this opposition. Or he sent someone from this hall so there wouldn't be too many people against the referendum. So don't blame these people. These people want the highway as soon as possible, the trucks off the road. However, they chose the reception that this government was introducing. That government taught them that. Please! In the Lipa Group, we will be happy to support this very, very ambitious plan of what should be built in this country. But you will be the one who will tell you what kind of money and how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u187	Thank you very much. With your presentation, we have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members, which means that, on the basis of established practice and our Rules of Procedure, we can move on to a debate on the annual plan. Member Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers! With regard to the 2008 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Highways, there have been many useful substantive discussions in the presentations of the groups themselves. Well, it is also interesting that most or almost all of the parliamentary groups practically support the 2008 Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways. It follows from all this that he is truly good, ambitious enough to be specific enough for the entire Republic of Slovenia, citizens and citizens to see or see in this plan. It is interesting to note from the plan that 80 kilometres of freeways, 11 kilometres of fast roads and 3.1 kilometers of connecting roads will be dedicated in 2008. In 2008, construction will continue on 46.5 km of broadband roads, 5.2 km of fast roads, and 1.9 km of connecting roads. In short, it is a fraction of all this in length, in kilometers and meters, but of course it is for all the many important numbers that are reflected in thousands of euros and it is also the Government that will have to take care of appropriate coverage, one way or another. But on this coverage of these buildings below at the next point, when the law of guarantee is dealt with. Well, if we look at this plan a little bit, we can see that actually this highway cross, which comes from the National Road Construction Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, is practically ending, somehow it's expired. Today, there was also a large number of speeches on the so-called effective or less efficient work of the so-called civil initiatives by individual representatives of the groups representing their views. It's quite an experience. There is probably no Member or Member who would not have either good or bad or some average experience with the participation of representatives of the civil initiative. You know, it bothers where there's a civil initiative, but it's not really. Above all, it disturbs where the main actors in this civil initiative are people who are active politicians. For example, in Gornja Radgona, where the mayor of Gornja Radgona is actively involved in the work of a civil initiative compared to another civil initiative, which advocates the construction of the highway from Slivnica to Dražanci and from Drazenci to Gruškov, where there is indeed a civil initiative and where their work is also related to integration in different professions, and that is what the real civil initiative is. This is my thinking, maybe others are thinking differently, but because we all know, especially individual ministries, and especially the Ministry of Transport has a lot to do with these civilian initiatives, where they are practically taking valuable time for everyone who needs to get there immediately, because otherwise there are prison forecasts and so on. However, what I find truly sad is that it seems to me that the Minister of Transport, who comes from that end, is facing a civil initiative in the immediate vicinity that he will have to step down if he does not have to step down before the time set out in the plan for the transfer of the motorway to Prekmurje, but from the annual plan itself, he will finally have the necessary road infrastructure. Here I also want to highlight the necessary road from Slivnica to Drazenci, which is in the bloom of construction. Much is being built up, and I expect that, as in the plan, the Minister's hearing will also be promised that the state's location plan for the section from Drazenec to Gruškov will be issued in the course of this year. This, of course, obliges us, who act in politics, from the Minister, to Members and all those who want this closure to stop as soon as possible, or to establish normal transport. For we know, when the summer tourist season begins, the section from Maribor or from Šentilj to Gruškov is one single column and, of course, if the whole section is not built, of course, there will be a lot of mass on the construction work, so the other sections will not help us. At that point, allow me to expose the sections of the fast roads. Above all, I would like to highlight here the section of the fast road from Slovenia Bistrica to Ormož. It's about sub-sections that have already been dedicated to traffic. It is the fast road Hajdin-Ptuj, to build and surrender the purpose of the Puhov Bridge. However, it is complicated and complicated to continue building from Ptuj to Markovts, where, of course, Natura 2000 reached this section. It should be pointed out here that we are Members from this area at our initiative at the Committee on Transport already in 2007, 13. 4. We requested that two additional decisions be taken by the Committee on Transport to resolve the problem of the Slovenian Bistrica-Ommož road at the Ptuj-Markovci section in respect of the conditions arising from and Nature 2000. Therefore, of course, the search for later possibilities for moving from the current southern version to the northern variant is, of course, so much more incomprehensible. For no doubt it was then clearly defined, and also the local communities, which organized either round tables or awareness of their citizens in various ways, were quite clear. They therefore wish that the placement of the southern variant in the section from Ptuj to Markovts starts as soon as possible, taking into account the nature 2000 conditions. There is no dilemma here, and this should start and be resolved by the end of 2007. Therefore, of course, expressing resentment and serious blood on the part of the people who live here will, of course, be highly justified. Well, as far as Markovci section - Gorišnica is concerned, it is in process and running and what is particularly commendable is, also on, I will say the initiative of Members coming from this work in cooperation with both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance, that it is practically in the plan for 2008 and with the law of guarantee, which we will deal with later, practically financially covered section from Gorišnica to Ormož. This is, of course, additional progress in this part of Slovenia. If we succeed later in connecting from Zavrče to Gorišnica, to a fast road, of course this part of Slovenia, which we call the Halo region, will be significantly closer to Ljubljana than it is now. In short, I think that the 2007 annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways is very ambitious, and I would like it to be fulfilled so that the next annual plan does not address certain exactly the same or the same content just so that the yearbooks will be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Ambassador Aloj Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. Something that I myself thought to mention has already been said by my fellow Member, Marinic, so I will not repeat after him, but I would like to add something to it; to listen to this debate today and compare it with that in 2004 in the National Assembly, I must say that the debate on the annual programme, which was also close to the elections, was extremely hot. We even repeated some of the votes on some of the amendments tabled under the assumption that certain Members were not in the Chamber and that others had voted in their place and so on. So it was one very electrified atmosphere. Of course, everyone knows the most about the part that comes from. And every Member wanted to see in the annual programme, if not earlier that year, something was written. So now I also assess, given this presence of Members, that the real issue is that this highway programme is slowly approaching its end, but of course there are many other tasks to be done, and that, of course, a very good time will not run out of work in this area. While it is true that in the past we have also criticized many times the way Slovenia has undertaken the construction of Slovenian motorways, but the matter has, of course, been set up from the beginning so that it has not been built from a concessional relationship as some other countries have done, but that everything will be invested in this gas toll at the beginning, and later by lending or borrowing credits from Dars and guarantees that the State or the National Assembly must provide. Before that, my colleague Weber calculated, although I don't know what kind of data to have these leased loans back by the year 2070, I don't know where that came from. Then we can actually hear more than once that Slovenia is over-indebted and so on. According to a study by the Economic Institute, which was made at a time when the financing and borrowing of credits were changed, of course, such a system was the only possible and that Slovenia was the only way to get the needed motorways. And if it's estimated that at the annual toll level we'll get around €190 million there, assuming that Darsa's debt is at this point 2.4 billion, then of course this year's 2070 somehow, my friend, doesn't match. That's gonna be hard to put a computer like this. Well, there's no other way, that's what I'm saying. If Slovenia wants to get to the needed motorways as soon as possible, this National Assembly must give Dars a guarantee to rent a loan. It is true, though, that in the past some road sections could be constructed cheaper. One of these was certainly one of the most expensive and impossible routes with many viaducts, with many tunnels, that the price was then so much higher. I think that's just what we know and that it actually upsets decisions on this segment even further, which are still known at this point. I myself, when I look at this year's annual plan, can also find with satisfaction that this promise to build the necessary highway to the Hungarian border is being fulfilled, that Pomurje will gain enormously this year, and that I do not understand these threats by the mayor of Gornja Radgona, but that these elections have an impact on this, rather than a real position, and that to the Minister, even in the near future, due to such and similar abuses, there is no need to think about the resignation, because it would be unnecessary, inappropriate. In fact, I think it was some kind of rash statement, and in fact, you're only giving more power to even demand something that's impossible. So if they waited so long and were willing to wait under another government for more time, then they would wait for those two or three months, as long as it takes to solve the problem. I am very pleased that the problem of the highway, part of the Phyrn motorway between Drazenci and Slivnica, is being solved because here is actually traffic in the summer months, not just summer months, all the time extremely dense and very burdensome for the population that lives here. But when people see that the machines on the roads are ready to work, they are willing to endure and I am "sure" that they will also await the opening of this indispensable highway, which will also mean a lot to all those from our end, from the area of Prlecia, every day drive to Maribor. I am pleased that in this annual programme he also found a continuation, financial support, section between Slovenia Bistrica and Ormož. We have been working here for years to see something happen in this work in the national programme of the written-down work of the fast road. The annual programme provides slightly less than 5 million this year. I think that's enough for this start. It is anticipated that then, in the following year and a half, the first section of this route will be completed more than ten kilometres in length, since the guarantee loan will then be provided in the next law that we will adopt today at this meeting of the National Assembly, money to actually receive financial coverage for this section. And I'm sure if the construction starts, then there'll be a solution for Natura 2000 near the village of Markovci, or if you want between Ptov and the Markovci. Well, it's important to us that the solution, however it may be, comes as soon as possible. To arrive at this solution as soon as possible, because this road will, in particular, be connected to this road once and for all if the Zvrè border crossing is connected to it. Then, at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union, when there is actually no more borders, it will become much more burdensome than it is at the moment. But there's only one thing I'd like to conclude with. Upon completion of the construction of the highway in our north-eastern part of Slovenia, there was additional damage to roads due to the transport of thousands of tons of grammose. Such injuries are in the area of Ormož, where the grammes were transported from our grammar room, then I know that also from the ptuj grammoznica, including from Lztomerska, but there were certain maintenance works on the roads. So, I would suggest, and we also had a meeting with the Roads Directorate, where they told us that they were just making deals with Darsa -- so, one and the other should sit together and agree that what is most urgent, as far as these are concerned, is the road Augusts or what these lanes are, because of the wear-off, in order to make it somehow the most critical sections recover -- the chariots, they warn me here. In order for these wheels to be repaired because they actually pose a threat to drivers, especially when inflows occur, and when untapped drivers are found on such roads, which in such a situation are slightly shaken, they are intimidated, and then many things can happen. I have proposed to the director of the Road Directorate that he sees this, and he has comforted me that he knows things and that they are already in agreement, that these most critical sections will in some way be tried together with the completions of the construction as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Member Mirko Zamernik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! At first, I must admit that I somehow fell under the influence of the media, which, at the beginning of the mandate, Minister Žerjev was quite badly borrowed, told him that with his experience, he would not be in favour of the business he had undertaken. And I admit I fell under that influence at the time. However, when I had the opportunity to learn how to work Minister Žerev, I do not believe in this anymore or the opposite, I am sure - or I do not believe in the media. I believe he's still got a way of doing his job. You are in the lion's den, Mr. Minister, because the road-mafia building lobby, which surrounds you, I have had the privilege of knowing for myself and, of course, the functions you perform, I envy nothing. And I thank you from this city for what you did two days ago or a day ago, for the results were immediately seen. And I hope your warnings fail. In order for what has been promised to happen to you to happen, of course it would be rather unjustifiable for you, there will be no need to raise the question of the next Member. Anyway, I'd like to draw your attention to or lay it on your heart, if you like, a few things. I, a rather visual type of man, find it difficult to imagine a thousand million euros, as far as this annual programme of maintenance and development of motorways for 2008. A thousand million. I've calculated that one high priced car class or higher, I don't know, Volkswagen Toureg came to mind, costs about 50,000 euros, and for one million euros we get 20 such cars. So we get 20,000 for a thousand million. And if we take it to take a length of 5 meters, then there is only so much space among them, it is a 100km snake that would go from Ljubljana to Metlika, Brežice, Osilnice, Kopra, Nova Gorica or if we are going to Styerski there to Slovenia's Bistrica. But if we went up to the border, we would have gone across the border of the country, across Pavlič's already to the Iron Chapel. That's how I can imagine how much it is. 100 kilometers long park of high-priced cars. And when I warn the actors I've met myself, it doesn't really matter how this money works, I get quite vehement and such "pischmeuhov" answers. Why did I do this car comparison? Because the road and the car are "passing" together and then it's easier to imagine. And there's another reason. If any of us are going to buy one single single car out of these 20,000, he'll probably find out what such a car looks like - whether it offers you what you pay for and you don't get the idea to buy it if it's bad quality. We've been working one road at the rate of one thousand of this program that we're adopting today. That's about a million euros - a basic contract. And then there's the extra parts for five cars like I mentioned earlier. This means an additional 250 000 euros of extra work. And performers get subcontractors, subcontractors get subcontractors usually in the local environment, and then they have to wait for extra work to be paid. It's extra work. Only then will he get paid for what he did, this subcontractor of the subcontractor in the basic contract. I'm afraid that with decent problems, because players like I said are always the same, this invitation that I mentioned came from SCT, CMC and Vegrad and some CP Ljubljana, and then we end up doing the Styrian-Ljubljania part that Primorje comes from whence. This is all that is "on the road" in Slovenia. And they always make deals with each other. We had a chance to hear it in some way, and I firmly hope that some "clean shovel" will end. I note that with what has been done with this so-called "pure shovel", someone has a bit of a shaking hand and is now acting a little better. And why am I talking about this again? Since I am missing an important item in here, for which we have been here years ago, colleagues who have been here have repeatedly warned - the so-called item of engineers or supervision. I don't see him here or in the minimum share, in the part where there's some super control. But on the road I mentioned earlier we had such control, quality I can say, the performance of the dagger was done as required by the designer. The designer said he did the right thing. But after a few months, the road is cracked and useless. Like I said, the surgery worked, but the patient was just about to die. And what I was most touched by when an official, Mr. Minister, said, you know what, I'm driving on different roads across Slovenia and all these cracks appear everywhere, despite that, you can't do it without it. For God's sake, I would like to put this on your heart, as I said before, we need to basically eradicate this kind of mentality, at least from those who are supposed to be paying or controlling operators if they are managers of mafia businesses. On the part of those who are supposed to monitor and pay, let us eradicate this kind of harmony by simply not being able to help if wrong is done. Then let this one go and buy a bad car. That's what we used to have when we could only buy Yuga and a stone and a fiche. That's the only choice you had, and that's why you could be happy that you even got the car. And it's obvious that this socialist mentality has held back a little since then, at least as far as the roadway is concerned, that we just have to face the fact that it's bad. Minister, as I said at the outset, you've proven yourself so far, and you have all my support. But even more so, if you know each other, as you have already shown, you will also focus on these problems that I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Member Ferry Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleague and colleague! I will unreservedly support the decision on agreement to the 2008 Plan for the Construction and Renewal of Motorways. For a simple reason, because I believe it is necessary to build an entire motorway cross as soon as possible if we want to avoid more victims, traffic isolation of Slovenia and even greater construction costs. As an MP from Pomurje, however, I am obliged to take the view that not only the Minister of Transport, but the Government, Minister, Dars, contractors and all those who influence the construction process will do their utmost to build the part of the motorway as soon as possible and to put it on the market. What I'm about to say is not pre-election speech, because I'm not running for state elections. The fact is that it is valuable not only every month and every week to complete the construction of the highway and to redirect mainly transit freight to the highway, but it is precious every day. It's easier to talk, I understand colleagues who already have highways or are in some locations where there is no such situation as in Pomour on this G1-3 road. Every day is precious. In particular, transit traffic is increasing steadily, and other traffic and the situation on this road from Maribor to the Hungarian border is increasingly unsustainable. So far, April has reached an absolute monthly record, close to 120,000 vehicles. When we entered the European Union, there were about 30,000 a month there. It is realistic to expect a further increase in traffic, although not so long ago many have predicted that there will be no increase. The consequences for Pomurje, especially for residents along the G1-3 road, are more than unsustainable. There is an increasing number of fatal accidents, life on this road is unbearable, and material damage on housing, infrastructure and other facilities is increasing. The environmental consequences are getting worse and the environment will in fact be degraded for a longer period. The Pomur region is experiencing increasing indirect economic damage as business, especially potential investors, are increasingly avoiding it. Those who ever drive to Pomurje will believe those words. The Minister, like the Member of Parliament and us Members, who drive at least once a week in one direction and another, sometimes more times, we experience this on our own or on our own cars. Many take side roads, those that can, local and other roads, many, especially from Prekmurje, ride through Austria. We can't all do that. And the fact is that the real shift of traffic, not only personal but also freight, to local and regional roads, has caused the destruction of these roads as well. I don't think and there's no point in going back to the past and finding out the reasons and also the mistakes and responsibility and the guilt of the responsible and responsible both in Ljubljana and at home in the Pomur region. No one simply anticipated such an increase in freight transport in particular, and therefore it was also late with planning, preparation and construction of the part of the highway. Even in this House years ago, in the previous term, many have argued that it is not justified or that an accelerated construction of the highway is not necessary. Not to mention that many felt that there was no need for a suburban highway at all. Traffic growth is strongly ahead of the national highway construction programme. That's a fact. That's what the data proves. Recognizing that something has to be done more radically and shorten the time frame for the construction of the foothill of the highway, this knowledge was reached in 2004; this year has already been mentioned; and this summer, when also on the proposal and request of the Pomurec Government, on the basis of analyses and data that were already obvious, decided that it was necessary to accelerate construction and reduce the deadlines for the completion of the foothill of the highway. And I am very pleased that this government has also accepted this policy, and this programme has continued rapidly. The requirements of the Pomurcs after the completion of the motorway as soon as possible, given that the only way out is the early shift, in particular freight transport to the motorway, does not put pressure on the Minister of Transport. All of us, including Members, are being pressured by the unbearable and deteriorating state of affairs, including human casualties in traffic accidents, which are increasingly common. Given that you are some of the colleagues, and I didn't mean to talk about it, to discuss some kind of a matter, in a complaint, in a dispute, or to sharpen the relationship between the Monitoring Committee on the Construction of the Highway and the Minister of Transport, the Minister is here and will be able to deny it or confirm it. I'd like to say the following. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Marinič and my colleague Sok for his concerns about the situation and the situation in Pomura. Obviously, however, they are not well, either fully or properly informed about what was really going on, what was going on. Because if I had been well informed, I would not have given any judgments that were not justified. The attack by Mayor Radgone, who co-ordinator of the Committee on Monitoring the Construction of Motorways, has already been established before the current Minister of Transport, he is the coordinator of this Committee. On this committee, we are Member Maria, Member of colleague Jože and I and some of the mayors of Pomur and representatives of the civil initiative. At the last meeting of this Committee, where we were present with the Minister, there was a debate on deadlines. And in fact, a unanimous decision has been taken, as a proposal, or if you also want to require that the hands should be reduced as much as possible and, if possible, the whole route of the motorway from Maribor to Lendava should be put on the market simultaneously or with a short distance of time, as it is envisaged that one part of the Beltinians to Lendava will be put on the market earlier, and the other part will cause additional problems later, as traffic will increase further and more congestion and settlements and cities from Lenart, Radgone, Radenchev, from the medical site will be further affected. The debate was open, controversial, so I don't think anything's wrong. The Minister argued that this would probably not be possible. He also announced a response within one week, and he also gave it properly, and on that basis he also ran, according to my assessment, patient and normal dialogue, which will continue in the coming days. It is normal and legitimate to demand and propose that it actually ends construction as soon as possible and that it is put on the market for motorways. It's easier to talk to those, I say, who are not on the highway, who are not under the pressure of the people and the situation as we all are together, together with the minister. It is not true that anyone demanded the Minister's resignation, but a short notice was required. And then the minister reacted to it himself, if you ask for something that's not possible, then I'll step down. And then the media picked it up, and they interpreted it their own way, and that's how this story came about. On the contrary, we are opinions, I personally, and I very much appreciate the Minister's efforts, and I am sure that he will do everything possible to complete the entire part of the road in Pomurje as soon as possible. To conclude, all I would say is that, in the past, and especially in the last period, we are also Members and Members and others in the opposite direction, that we Pomurci are too patient, too greedy, too difficult and have been compared with, say, representatives, Members and representatives of local communities of other Slovenian regions. You don't need to politicize, you don't need to be mentally concerned. The pomurs will already know each other with the minister themselves patiently and wisely to discuss and agree. And I would only appeal to all those responsible and influential who are involved in this project to actually make the maximum effort to make the whole part of the motorway from Maribor or Pesnica to the Hungarian border built as soon as possible and the day on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The Minister will be included in the debate and also before the Minister, Comrade Alojz Sok with the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate to Mr. Ferry Horvath, and I'd like to tell him that I'm familiar with what I read in the media. Of course, there's no other way to know. What you're talking about on your committee is your business. But I want to tell you something that maybe you don't even know and maybe the Radgon mayor doesn't know; that a good piece of grammosis for this dirt road is coming from Jurkovec, and that all this gramozo is driving through Ormož. And that he goes through Ormož in some days the truck behind the truck. Thus, you are not the only ones who would suffer from construction or traffic, and we in Ormož are in some way helping you through the fact that we are carrying this, but we do not have any committee to accompany it, nor are we waiting patiently for the construction on this fast road between Slovenska Bistrica and Ormož, and I am very glad that now there is only a section between Gorišnica and Ormož, a little more than 10 kilometers involved in this year’s programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u197	And as a matter of fact, Minister Radovan Žerjav has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At this point, I'd just like to respond, comment, because I see that we're always returning to this one that I'm personally very attached to, so I'm talking about Pomurka. I think that Mr Ferri Horvat has taken very well what has actually been going on. Maybe I only understand what you've added, even in some way, how I would say, the opening of a dialogue. You were saying today that if possible, things would open up as soon as possible. I've been saying this all along and working hard on it, and I'm also working on getting this highway to Pomure to be finished as soon as possible. Given that, as you yourself have mentioned, we Prekmurci know best what problems we have and we do not need to listen to everyone else how we actually suffer. I am very well aware of the need to do this as soon as possible and every day, as you said, is of course important. The fact is, I have to say that the contracts signed were signed when they were signed and that this is a fact today and that Dars has a business relationship with the contractors. And any reduction, I don't have to explain out loud what that means. There is money in the background, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. And from the very beginning, when I came to this function, I took it that what was once agreed that we were trying to stick to it 100%, any change in projects during the realization itself, during the execution, is one big mud water where operators can hunt big fish. A fine example is the tunnel of Shentvid, where what happened was happening. In the middle of the project, one has changed, the other has changed, and I, of course, have changed this time, and although this is now about Pomurka, I would not want operators to get big eyes and a lot of money here and I don't know what else to do to get this in the wrong direction. I want to be as strict here as any other project. I repeat, however, we will do everything because we too have arguments for a negotiating position in our hands that we will also try to achieve without money what we have been promised. It was promised: August - the lower part, October - the upper part. I think it's really possible to achieve this, and I've promised 100 times, and now I'm gonna do everything I can to achieve it. And I also understood you that this is possible, that is possible, but that is not possible for God's sake. In short, we can say so too, it is possible to bring everyone and the Americans another 100 million euros, and it will end in July. I don't think that's the point, and that we at home in Pomour will know that we're going to end this and that we're not going to end it alone, that I'm not going to say, slaughter or fight. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it's not easy for you. Your Members give you a good commendation before and then they build you up in the middle. That's true, actually, it's interesting to listen. But I, as has already been said in the presentation of the position, agree on this annual development plan and rebuilding the highway with an easy lady. Slovenia needs, as has already been said, motorway connections and it is right to complete them, and to somehow move from development to other transport areas. After all, you have been granted guarantees at the Ministry for the rental of loans for a thorough rehabilitation of railway infrastructure for a year. For a year now, you also have the conclusion that you can occupy or establish a directive to take care of the development of railway infrastructure and the implementation of priority projects. Nothing's happened in this area. We've talked about this on oral matters, and I wouldn't be talking about it right now. I believe you'll be dealing with this issue more recently than ever. I'd like to add something to what's now on the agenda. The motorways will be built, as they say, and I am interested, and for that I will also see one of the contracts in the future, whether these contracts have the appropriate guarantee clauses, the respected minister. Of course I'd like to know that. And how many of these guarantees did we enforce? For the strangely fast devil takes this quality on the highways. I do not agree with the interlocutors before me that the solution is to shift the heavier transit cargo completely to motorways only. I have also talked about this before, and my predecessors have also felt that a more difficult transit cargo should be diverted to the railways, and we do not hear anything from your mouth, even though the former Minister has made clear promises that he will do so. By example, let's say some European countries, say Austria - we could do this right away. So, I'm interested in guarantees, I'm also interested in the prices and transparency of public finances, because, finally, we're talking not about small money, as you say, a little bit earlier, but about big money, about millions of euros of public money. And these annexes, which are written in contracts, are also millions of dollars. Second. All sorts of wines that will have to be sufficient in some way, and I wonder if they will be sufficient funding to cover all these annuity loans that are being leased and how this gap, if any, will be filled in the budget. And if this money is not enough - who will be responsible for non-economic planning to cover financial liabilities? And there's something else I'd like to say, which I also say very often. Strange facts and strange things have happened in this mandate. In the Road Traffic Safety Act, we have reduced truck penalties twice. Once before your arrival and now once again. And interesting. We allowed trucks to increase the axle load, and this also increases road deaths. I am talking about state roads, which we do not like to talk about in the National Assembly, and it would be good if, at the end of this term, I believe that you are running out of time, we start talking about how we will at least properly get these state roads to a level of safety. We die for one class of children on these roads a year, and there is the highest blood tax on these roads. So, I'm curious, although this is not entirely in the context of this: When are you going to take state roads? Otherwise, it is not necessary to take into account the fact that you have adopted an appropriate law on the provinces today, and you will transfer these roads to the provinces, and the money will probably not be allocated from the budget to these provinces for the reconstruction of state roads, so that you will be able to wash your hands in a fine manner and pass the problem on to someone else. Although the problem is very serious, it cannot be seen from the right side. And I'm going to, what I'm about to tell you in this mandate, put an amendment to this law, which will require a stricter criminal policy for truck transport and that fundamental burden on the roads you've increased for trucks, we're going to put it into the original state, because I think we're going to also dilute the traffic that is particularly transit through Slovenia, and what's not enough in this sense is going to remain state-owned, because we know how to pay the tolls by foreign users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u201	Thank you, too. And again, Minister Žerjav has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's one thing I'd like to clear with you, Mr. Friend. I'm very fond of the railroad, too, and I've proved this a few times. And I'm just going to show you one simple calculation of basic trains that we're going to understand the whole problem, the core of the whole thing. The transport train, which drives between Ljubljana and Munich today, has 20 wagons, is 550 metres long and goes for one tow truck. We've got 120,000 trucks on the moon, east-west. If 10% wanted to put them on the train, that would mean 600 trainloads. You probably know, Mr Friend, that the capacity of the single line is between 60 and 80 trains and a double track somewhere 220 trains. And if we go for 5%, it's 300 base trains. It's not working. At this point, with this infrastructure, as we now have, unfortunately this is not possible. Maybe you'll be Minister of Transport in the next term, and then you'll be able to resolve this matter. As far as the directorate is concerned, the directorate has long been established. She's got a fix, she's got a secretary, and now she's gonna get a director, so [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] She had the principal in mind. However, as regards state roads, I have said at least three times in the National Assembly: funds have increased by 123% since 2005 and we have ended up with 254 million euros. And, Mr Friend, don't say anything is going on in the area of state roads. More than 700 projects are currently under way, in realisation. 700 projects all over the country!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u203	My friend Lucky Friend Replica on the replica I can't give you. In the end, we will be able to allocate time on the basis of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The same rules apply to all. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Very briefly, given the time I still have left. As I have already said in the opening presentation, Mr Minister, do not take the comments we make to you in the Lipa Group as malicious or personal but, above all, to reflect. I would like to point out that I am very concerned that, as soon as possible, I failed in the introduction, the attitude towards certain individual roads, which would increase the flow or reduce the congestion within cities. And it's not necessarily about the railings. We have one example in this road development programme called Nova Zrkovska in Maribor. To that end, this country is also in charge. This is one of the roads that this money will be used for. A year ago, when the budget was adopted, my fellow Member, Mr Pece, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an amendment that would then allow the development of this road to begin. It was a minimum amount. Today, at least 90% of the road could be completed, but obedience from Members of the ruling coalition, especially to those coming from Maribor, from the end of Styria, was such that they pressed against. Today, however, we are in charge of much more, and they will easily press "yes", and today they will explain to you how this road is needed for Maribor because you introduced it or the Government introduced it. This duality, it worries me when we talk about roads. In addition to all this enormous debt and burden. As for these train compositions that would transport trucks and one end of Slovenia to the other end, I must say that I have asked your predecessor a number of questions on this subject myself, and I have received approximately the same answers as you are now giving, that there is simply no capacity and this possibility that this is currently being done in Slovenia, at this point, we understand each other. I believe that once the railway infrastructure changes once the conditions are given, it will be possible to do so. And then I believe that the government that will do it will be happy to do it. But once again, I would like to point out that these insinuations were coming from the railway circles to make it possible to do so. And who to trust if not those who know it? I can't say I'm the smartest guy on the railroad. It seems to me that the representatives of the Slovenian Railways, who at the time also lobbyed in this direction, are already those who know about it. And so it may be that such mistrust in these answers is possible. I took it, I get it. When I look at these compositions and these railroad passages, I believe that this moment is not feasible. But I would like to reconsider, perhaps for the next period, this year such a composition in Parliament will no longer be possible. When it comes to roads, please also trust those who live in those places, know certain roads, and perhaps even before the road is planned, and the plan will be a little easier, and the task will be easier to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary. The annual road development and renewal plan for 2008 is a long story, in fact the story of highway construction is dragging too long. It's not an obvious conclusion, it's just a conclusion. I think that this is one of the two most important projects since the independence of our country, which have the greatest impact or have the greatest impact on the life of this country, one was the reform of local self-government and the other was the construction of highways. Unfortunately, the situation is such that the case has stalled and traffic flows have increased so much that we should already start designing new routes, new lanes. I used to say that when we build what was planned, we will have to start building expansions or new belts immediately. I ask how you see the strategy ahead, although it is not directly related to this year, but I am interested in your assessment of how to deal with all these huge traffic flows. I am aware that you have actually inherited a way of building that can no longer be changed, which needs to be completed as soon as possible, not at any cost, but will be completed sooner, cheaper and sooner we will be able to deal with other matters. But it is also true, and we are all aware of this, that the former governments have also made a great difference in the case. In doing so, it must be said that here Slovenia has, in my opinion, one of the most complicated situations, from placing in space, to all consents and all. Here I think that in this way, simply building public infrastructure will no longer be able to drive successfully, given the trends that are emerging. That's why I think you're like one driver in formula 1, the car and runway designer was built 10 years ago, the race has to end, and the car is constantly failing. How can the crew act to put an end to the matter? I'm asking what to do with the shale tunnel or what the forecast is now. You've already mentioned, you're bound by contracts, you're bound by complicated procedures for any changes. I join those who drive from Gorenjska to Celovská cesta, we know that this is a really big problem, even now at the time of the presidency this matter is not doing us the best service, although I must admit that things are going relatively well, nevertheless. But in the last month, these columns are just extending. I don't know where the reason is. I'm asking: will the shale tunnel be completed within the time limit or not? Otherwise, I must say that I welcome the fact that in Gorenjska only the construction of the entire leg is confidently completed. I do hope that everything else will be over, except for the rehabilitation of the viaduct and the tunnel in the Laundromat, the old work. Even during the presidency, we know that the link between Bled and Brdo, if it were a highway, would also convey some additional points for the promotion of Slovenia. However, I also have to say here that in view of the experience I had at the conference where I was present, the police helped to ensure that traffic conditions were currently being adjusted for guests, even though the motorway had not yet been built, but it would have been even better if this matter had ended within the deadlines originally envisaged. But I want to ask you one more question. Construction of the motorway section past Radovljica, where we agreed in the mandate of the previous minister, your predecessor, to question or stop the construction of petrol services, because it is really a matter of whether we need such frequent petrol services in Slovenia. At the same time, given the extremely rapid increase in freight traffic, there is an increasing need for this part to better regulate the station for freight vehicles. As far as I'm aware, the police need their own place on the mountain highway somewhere to control this freight traffic, to weigh and other matters. I would therefore like to give the initiative to listen once again to the civil initiative, even during your term of office, and to try to reach some consensus here. I know, as I pointed out earlier, the problem is that when the location plan is adopted, it is difficult or impossible to intervene beyond this location plan. However, within the framework of the regulation, certain matters are only allowed to be slowed down or adapted to the local population, which was not possible when the route was set up, in due time is included in the debate itself. That's why I'd ask you to do this. Just one more initiative, which is not covered by this year's plan, but is linked to the mountain highway. We know that in the vicinity of Kranj you are thinking about a northern bypass. One idea is if by one additional highway connection this matter could easily be resolved. I do not have to answer this question, but I am only giving an initiative. I think that this is a wise solution if the standards of connections, depending on the distances, allow this to happen. I certainly hope that the programme will be adopted as well as the next item, because it is financial. I also have another matter to say to you in this programme. I think that the vineyards also solve one problem that occurred in the original plan for the construction of the highway in Gorenjska, where the planned toll station at Brezh. This location would be very awkward, especially in the tourist season. And, thank God, I can say that now the proposal to blame this situation is also being resolved and this toll station will not be built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Tomaž Strabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u208	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps I would have started by being a little older and driving to Belgium in the 1970s when Austria had not yet built all the motorways and elsewhere they had been built. During the 1990s, I took part in the construction of highways in Crna Graben or in connection with Trojan to Ljubljana. Now in these times, I have also been sufficiently involved in other matters, especially in tolling systems. And I must say that, in fact, Slovenia is still in a situation where it has an old building, and there are people with apparatus far above this facility, which is not yet fully built. In fact, others are already building the infrastructure of the second, third generation, and we have not even built the first generation of infrastructure, such as a highway network. Not to mention old infrastructure. Given the adoption of such an approach to the construction of motorways in Slovenia, I think a thorough and fair analysis and comparison of the approaches used in Germany, Austria, Croatia and Slovenia would be necessary. This is an urgent matter. No one thoroughly analyzed this and essentially drew conclusions on how to work, how not to work, or whether the approach was appropriate and optimal. No audit shall be carried out and no Court of Auditors shall do so. However, given that there are unhealthy links here, which, for the first time, irritate this infrastructure, and at the same time are made inequitablely, I think such an analysis would then be necessary. The clean shovel is just that, I'd say cleaning up really extremes. I think here is the biggest mistake in this non-responsibility and projector-executor guarantees. I do not know why in Slovenia it is not possible to require longer warranty periods and really cruel guarantees. I think highways can be built on a key. And let those bidders calculate all the contingencies, instead of then hunting profits and costs with the annexes to the contracts. I don't think there's been any real complaints. However, it is unlikely that the contracting authority is also making appropriate demands. I think that with the new toll system we could come in a similar way to that used by some countries and proved successful that the toll system operator and then also tolling, it is said not only to install it, but also to use it, to guarantee the toll collected. This saves the state's bailout, reduces its debt ratio, which is embedded in GDP, and in fact those guarantees take over the banks of such a concessionaire. These discussions in the National Assembly should also have some conclusions and then some effects, as I think they are repeated year after year. And without such effects, a minister who comes out of the environment, such as ministers, at least most of the past years, can actually do a lot in such a short period of time. And Minister Žerjav did a lot of work here. I think it's a decisive move, but it's a slight shift in the direction of those real steps. I hope the Minister will also be in his next term. All the fears raised by some in the opposition that these movements that have been made will not make enough tolls can calm you down with data from neighbouring countries and their projections. Austria collects 8 times as many tolls as it introduced tolling for cargo vehicles at a distance transported, in fact with an inadequate system. Slovakia assumes that the tolls collected will increase from 5 times in 2009 to 7 times in the 4th to 5th years, compared with the tolls collected for passenger vehicles. And I think that this is the right approach to collect tolls for freight vehicles according to the distance transported and that this imbalance between the benefits and costs of infrastructure between passenger vehicles and freight vehicles is somehow slowly and gradually coordinated. And given the increase in traffic, I'm surprised. 120 thousand trucks just east-west. More than a million a year. In fact, this allows for an even more accelerated construction of motorways. And the completion of the construction of motorways, perhaps, I don't know, with a petrol cent, of course throughout Europe, starts to finance public passenger transport and in a way more environmentally appropriate infrastructure, the railway is said to be. Not only is the problem of Prekmurje, which has been waiting for decades for a highway solution to heavy freight traffic, but it is also a problem for some people of Ljubljana, where we are wasting our time and money daily because of irregular and irregular traffic, which is mainly due to the absence of public passenger transport. This rail-tramway public passenger traffic is what is absolutely necessary and not to wait again and then put out the complicated situation. It is thus a principle to finance the construction of motorways from tolls, a fair principle and it is very not unfair what has happened in the past, that all taxpayers have paid for the construction of motorways, because it is not necessarily that we are all users. I think the introduction of vinjets is that fundamental and essential step into the new toll system. We expect this month, and in the next month, actually, the second step, is only an introduction to this second right step, that there will be an invitation to tender and also contracts even during the time of this government for the one who will supply and may also manage the modern toll system for freight vehicles. Any reflection on the upgrade of the existing system on the principle of small steps and high costs without effects is fully de-rated. This was demonstrated by experiments that were made and, above all, professionally inadequate. I think that maybe some things could also be aimed at making these vignettes in some way, at least for a certain segment of the vehicle category, maybe motor vehicles, in terms of these virtual vignettes, electronic vignettes or in a way that you simply do not need stickers for such motor vehicles. In the end, I would also like to thank the representatives of the Ministry and, in fact, the Darsa administration, that the 2008 annual programme also includes a line for the Mengsha and Mosta railways as part of a binding fast or main road, I do not know what it is already called, between the Styria and Gorenja highways, which in some way will not connect these two legs, because this would lead to the inadvertent use of this leg, but in particular this leg is intended to relieve the exact and off-road traffic in the region and between these two motorway legs. All transit inter-regional road transport will have to take the highway and I think that will not be a problem at the time, nor will it be a problem to control freight vehicles to use the highway in the Ljubljana system for transit transport in all directions around Ljubljana. I hope not only an item in the annual plan, but also any preparations that are ongoing or ongoing will also lead to the actual implementation of these most critical sections on this connecting road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, everyone, say good-bye! First of all, I would like to comment a little on just one statement by my colleague Štebet when he spoke about who is responsible or responsible for the quality of construction and maintenance, or the restoration of motorways - he said, designers, contractors, I would add the least control here. So much for that. I think surveillance is also responsible for what he's done, what he's signed. On this basis, payment by the contracting authority is also likely to have been made. Another thing I'd like to find out. In fact, I am pleased at the great support of most of the colleagues who have participated in the debate so far on the proposal for a decision on consent to the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways. In view of the debate we have had on the parental committee, when at least one of our colleagues, I think that he has been explaining to us for an hour and a half about how and what is wrong with the construction of motorways and how it is with realisation. Third thing I'd like to say. The country, as well as we Members, have decided, some before the time, some in this mandate, on such a way of building motorways and such a way of payment. I just hope and expect what my colleague Steba said will come as soon as possible, that every highway user will actually pay either by car or by truck after a mile. And if this is also intended for the temporary introduction of vignettes to contribute to this, I also support this way. However, I expect the same support from all those who said that you are currently supporting this annual development plan and the restoration of motorways, on the grounds that there are many sections or whole routes that have been built in the places where you come from or come from, that we will also discuss the same at one of the following points, when the same support will have to be expressed, as it was said earlier, that we have decided to do so, including to guarantee that we will finance it. And the information that these loans will be paid back in 2040 and 2070 is probably twisted from the vine. Next, but here I would have a specific question for the Minister, and I could ask him elsewhere, but I think there is nothing wrong with asking here what is the connection between Luke Koper and the Ankaran crossing, given that this programme is not best suited, and I know that there are some problems at the end. Unfortunately, my colleague, Ferri Horvat, is not here, but I would like to ask him, maybe he will hear, and he will be able to answer me in person later. I agree with his calming position regarding the requirement of a civil initiative to complete or put into service the motorway’s suburban arm by the end of August. But as my colleague Sok said, from the media, as well as the statements made by the president of this initiative committee, I think after this interview, when the Minister presented this report and the answer, whether it is possible or not, when he had this seven-day delay, this president said, "No, we will persist and we will close the highway in late August." I hope that they have listened to today's discussion of my colleague Horvath and that this closure, with the reasons that are probably presented by the contractors and are also derived from the contracts concluded, as the Minister has said, and that compliance with these contractual provisions will not occur. Finally, as we have stood up and said that we will complete the highway cross, I said earlier in the presentation of the position of the parliamentary group that we still have many crosses that will need to be arranged or built in the future, not only that, as we all find together, that some sections will need to be built in the shortest possible time, some lanes and so on. I mentioned the third development axis, we can talk about the fourth development axis. I think Comrade Bevk will say more about her. One of the colleagues said there was no connection between Kvarner or Ionian, so-called route. She's probably not even placed in the room right now. Only studies are being done. So let's finish what is already in the process as soon as possible, no, I'll say, by stretching the muscles in such a way that two or three months one of the candidates speaks one month before the completion of the highway, how he will shut it down for traffic. But let's make every effort to actually make this happen, like colleagues who have talked about rerouting, and I don't know what to do at this conclusion, in parallel with these additional routes that I mentioned, we're actually starting to build the fifth and tenth rail corridor, which will probably also contribute to at least a partial release of this excessive traffic that is now taking place on our roads. I hope someone was listening to the radio today, what was going on. Today, in most European countries, there is a church holiday and I think 10, 15 kilometers of columns have been on the coastal highway. What would happen to us if we didn't introduce the vinjets with July? For example, it is said from Log that the column was to the end of Ljubljana and to the end, almost beyond Logatz. Let us all work together in an area where we can and know that there will be realisation as soon as possible, as well as support for at least one law that we will have to deal with today, which will allow us to realize what we have said today or what it has, at least at this point, wider support for the members of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. When we discussed a similar document 10 years ago in the National Assembly, I pointed out in the discussion that we should start building more rapidly or even start building the highway cross where the most challenging projects are, namely, we should start with the Troyan tunnels, start with the Black Sea Viaduct and start building over the Rebrnice. In fact, we left all the hardest sections behind to complete the construction of the highway cross. But something was being built everywhere, so that local interests were satisfied. Thus, the Black Sea viaduct was opened only in 2004, the Trojan tunnels 2005 and the ribs will be possible this year or at least such a plan is here. So we've got this project at the wrong end. I think if we set him right, he'd probably be finished by now. In his discussion earlier, Feri Horvat said "it is easier to discuss those who are not on the highway." Otherwise, he can hold it, and it's partly true. On the other hand, people, to us who do not live directly along the highway, tell us why we should not transfer some of the means from the highway to the state road network, today we say to the so-called development axis, to the third development axis, to the fourth development axis, and so on. Look, only from the international loans of financial institutions and other foreign loans and the new loans we will rent for this year's construction of state highways will go to €589 million. For the entire project in 2008, all resources for construction and debt recovery and servicing total EUR 948 million, almost a billion euros. As I watched now the rebalancing of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, I see that their budget for 2008 is 192 million euros. It's five times less than the money on the highway. And the situation is appropriate. We are really dissatisfied with the slow construction of the highway cross in Slovenia, and we are even more dissatisfied with the slow reconstruction of another state road network in our country. I have been pointing this out all the time since I was a Member of the National Assembly, since 1996, and it has not been very much so. And we are still waiting today for a national programme to build state roads in Slovenia, but there is nowhere to be found or we have this famous resolution until 2023, where only two development axes are recorded. Now, I'm going to say a comparison of the speed of construction, on one section of the state road and on one section of the highway, and you'll see that this factor, which is 5 times less for state roads, that construction of state roads or reconstruction or reconstruction is significantly slower than construction of motorways. Take a look at the case of the section of R1-210 between Želen and Cerknim. That's on the fourth development axis. The reconstruction took place between October 2006 and May 2008. That's 20 months. And a month later, 40 meters of state road was built. So, the pace is really amazing. Look, I looked at a section on the highway and I took a not very difficult road, Vipava-Selo, which was built from 1997 until the end of October 1999. So there were 22 months of construction here. It was built 522 meters of highway. So we build 522 meters of a highway and 40 meters of a state road. This is the pace at which state roads are reconstructed in our country, all those roads connecting to the highway cross are called Kočevska, Koroška, North Soča and so on. Thus, if it goes at such a pace, this state road will never be well restored and never well connected to the highway cross. And that's what I'd end up saying. We're having an affair with these eight-wheelers, the Patriots. The Minister of Defence said that if the suspicion of corruption was confirmed, he would cancel this contract. In fact, I now hope that the suspicion of corruption will be proven and that this treaty will fall into the water. And this money that's supposed to go for weapons, I suggest we rebuild hospitals, schools and state roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. Hello, well-respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I will be pleased to support this annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for this year. In any case, I am of the opinion that the so-called motorway cross must be completed as soon as possible, is said to be within a reasonable time frame, which is also certainly linked to a rational approach. I believe that the Ministry of Transport, on the one hand, led by the Minister, as on the other hand Dars, has also approached this conclusion. Of course, it was necessary, or we will have to provide certain financial resources, which are not really small, but if we are to complete this large project, then these financial resources will also have to be provided. During the debate, it was often heard from the individual that he was mainly engaged in the debate in his area, the one from which he was coming. But I have to say, some of us have this accident so I can look to the left right 50 kilometers, freeway nowhere. And it probably won't be in the near future. And with that, I don't want to say that I don't support the program. I am pleased to support it and, in fact, I also expect it to be in the future, because, even when we adopt this programme, we always agree that more funding will have to be spent on state roads, what has been said today by a number of discussers. When I was talking about the distance to the highway, I had in mind the so-called Obsotela and Kozjanski area, which is actually from the point of view of transport links, I think one of the worst in Slovenia. And, of course, we all strive not only to talk in the future about motorways, about the third development axis, about the fourth development axis, but each of these two development axes also has connections. And the connection to the third development axis is also 3A, which is supposed to somehow be a link to the Ljubljana-Maribor motorway. I would certainly like to once again commend good work or, I would say, a good approach. There have been a lot of debates about the tendering procedures themselves, there have been many discussions about operators, there have been many discussions on how many problems there are, and there are many times that the tax money went beyond what it was meant for. What I'm saying is that a lot of times it's happened that some projects were really too expensive. But here's the legislation and the legislation has to be respected. Indeed, we have or have had problems in the past, especially in the last two years, given that there has been a tremendous amount of work, that the literal construction area or contractors have been 100% exploited. It is said that the demand for works was much greater than the actual domestic offer. As a result, many parts of the road were more expensive than they could have been in the event of more competition. But these are the facts. I expect that in the future there will be much more positive in this segment, and in this context I will also conclude that I will also be pleased to support this annual programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u216	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the rest are present! Every year, according to a well-established scenario, as we have apparently inherited from the previous term, we are facing somewhere in the middle of the year with the annual highway programme. It would probably be right to change this stable scenario in the future. It is projects that have been implemented for years and I think it is right to plan for a longer period to be adopted within the meaning of a multi-annual programme, which can then be corrected every year in the sense of the corrections that take place. I think this should be a way into the future for our successors. I think that this would also increase the efficiency and also facilitate the work of those who are the operators of what is enshrined in this annual programme. It is very difficult to do something if it is not yet formally confirmed. But we know things can't stop until mid-year, but they have to be started before they start. I think that this year, however, there is one major difference in relation to previous years, a difference that is strategically important and of which there has been a huge debate and even in the public at large, I must say by the opposition, very strange opinions. This is the introduction of vinjets. It's a transitional system, as we've heard. They're supposed to be coming to the toll system in the freeway. This is one of the stages we have to face. But as such it's the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do. She seems to have been most opposed by those who should support her most. This profession, which has somehow taken place at the Transport Ministry in the past ten years, has not realized that the pace of Slovenia as a transit country has changed significantly in recent years. Substantially changed. And that those who have actually experienced the collapse of the system, the auto-transporters, and those who have faced these problems every day, which we have heard about today, have had to pressure that this decision has finally come to an end. We have listened to all possible justifications as to how we will impose more environmental burdens on the environment by introducing this system, how unfair the system is. Look at how many years we've had to make annual roadside payments, and someone's been wondering how unfair this annual payback is. For he who carries 1,000 kilometers a year pays the same as those who carry 150,000. It is likely that the one who loads roads significantly more than 1,000 miles [1,000 km]. Nevertheless, it is a transitional system and, as such, introduced in the territory of Slovenia as an extremely transit country, it is my opinion that it is friendly to domestic users, to those who use roads daily and burdenlessly to those who use them only in transit. That's essential. In terms of fairness, this model is good because it satisfies both criteria. And what is probably most important, with significantly less costs, will be achieved by a significantly larger net effect on the tolls collected. In these plans that we have faced in recent years, we have also read how much funding we will spend each year on building toll stations. Although we have read in this same programme how we are preparing to introduce free movement tolls, for which nothing has been done except some texts in various documents. On the one hand, these funds have now been released and no longer need to be provided. It would therefore be appropriate to focus on an area where we do not yet meet all the standards required by the new environmental regulations. It's anti-group barriers that are an obligation. Not only because it is right to focus on a healthy living environment, but also because in places where the highway was cutting off areas where people lived, it is right that these anti-group barriers happen to them. It is unacceptable that for 15 years or more, 25 years people are asking for an anti-group barrier where they lived before the highway, the first highway in Slovenia, I speak in the Postojna area, and these anti-group barriers, which are supposed to be 250 meters long, are not yet mentioned and are not mentioned in this programme. That's unacceptable. And it's only right that such things are arranged. With regard to state roads, which must somehow also be taken into account as part of the regulation of this whole road problem, which has been a lot of talk today. They do not claim that the state road is being abandoned due to increased emphasis on the construction of motorways. They don't. And those who say that, you know that very well, because you are pressing the keys and participating in the committees where budgets are being adopted, where you could face that there are at least two and a half times more resources in this mandate for the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of state roads. If we can't see through the numbers, we can see through the naked facts when we're driving through Slovenia. If you're driving something, you can see it's true. The Minister spoke about 700 projects currently under way. It is true, however, that this part could be done more intensively if we achieved the regionalisation of Slovenia, which you oppose. More importantly, because it is normal for the environment in which certain things happen and for those living in it to be far more subtlely aware of the problems that are happening there, and much more effectively can then be made available to the resources that are intended for this part. Much more effective. This is evidence on the microlevel of local self-government in the field of municipalities. About the highway connection to the Croatian border. Croatia has led to the border, the Italians have brought it to the border, but we have Europe in between. It's an empty space. In addition to repeating one and the same phrases from year to year in the annual programme that this connection to Jelšan will happen, nothing has been done other than some comparative studies and counter-comparative studies. It is therefore a major task for these procedures to be accelerated in the future, in addition to the placement of this section in these plans, to ensure that appropriate mechanisms are also provided for this implementation. A decision should be taken on how, how and how to proceed with operational implementation. I think that this is one of the important sections where traffic frequency will increase over the next ten years and I fear that after ten years we will receive similar situations as we now see in Prekmurje. For this reason, I think it is right that this year's efforts are being maximised, which are talking about putting this route into space and allowing for the initial preparation as soon as possible for further implementation. Why don't things happen a little faster? Even because of the paperwork. Even because of the paperwork. We still have a lot of paperwork on this infrastructure work, which is not necessary. Why do we need, like, an investment program for a road, for some reconstruction of the road? We don't need him. The road is torn, it needs to be repaired, we need financial construction, budget item, control, execution. That's what we need. Not even a number of procedures that make it difficult and delay the possibility of carrying out such a project because of internal affairs in a given area. And the proposal to the Minister, who I think has done a lot in this short period of time in this area to continue his work. I'm guessing it's some sort of stalemate from the past that took place at the Ministry, which somehow places the profession on it that it's right to run like this. I think we need to make a change here. Regarding truck traffic, the first phase was made by the former minister when he prescribed a regulation that moved trucks from state roads to highways. I mean, one big move was made. And the second phase that needs to follow is to move this truck's transit traffic to the tracks. However, they cannot be moved without adequate emphasis on the rehabilitation of the rail network. And here we are again in some strange circumstances, when someone who wants to get to the project faster, is immediately publicly decommissioned to sell rail infrastructure, I don't know, Germans or French or Japanese or Chinese. It doesn't matter at all. The key objective is that this infrastructure will be able to be used by trucks, otherwise within ten years we will be smothered. I think it is right that these things are dealt with in this way, but not through other eyes, through what we have heard before from a respected colleague who has nothing to do with this area, no Patria will be driving on the highways, and I think these are completely depressed statements and discourage the debate from the essence of the problems. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to conclude with Dars. During the last period, Dars has also experienced some organizational changes. I think it's right that it continues this way. Dars must behave entrepreneurship, an undertaking providing primarily what it is intended for, but its capacity, personnel and material, as well as in a technology park that is not fully exploited, must be able to face outside the narrow programme of action and thus contribute when competing in some other maintenance contracts to break existing monopolies. I think that this can be achieved, and I am sure that Dars will be able to accomplish his mission and vision in the future in this way. People have the skills, the expertise, and all the resources to get there. I support this programme, of course, I want this story to go on this path, and I am sure that, as it is set out, it will enable the programme to be implemented more quickly in the future than originally planned, and certainly not at the expense of updating and restoring the rest of the road network, because we know that we have significantly increased these funds in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On the working body, the parliamentary club also supported the annual programme and I will do the same when the vote is in front of us. And maybe just the following. It's a good time to be as short as possible. The one who says that ten years ago we could have highways would have had a lot of tolls, fewer problems, and so on, let's laugh at him. Those who know the history of the creation of the national highway construction programme, the problems that have been raised in this regard, the policy has been taught, the builders have been taught, the financiers have been taught, there have been great speculations in this area, a lot has happened in this area. The ministers were changing. And the serious thing may have started after the extent of the construction of motorways in the previous term, I think that then colleague Presecnik was the Minister, where we could also talk seriously about further programmes, annual and longer, about the construction of motorways. Some political parties who today boasted greatly about what had been done were then opposed. Prekmurks used to run here when one of them said we would never allow the construction of highways through beautiful premium fields. And now we have what we have. We've been late at the expense of these stunts, if that's what we call them, two years, three years. And thank God, this year's highway construction program goes so far as to give us a dam in Prekmurje. Besides, I didn't have any problems with the previous Minister of Christmas. Why they replaced him, I don't even care. But I can say, not because it is ours that the current minister has made the wind, perhaps where it was necessary, and that it may contribute to the fact that this year's programme in this election year is going with a slightly stronger step towards the end, this programme that we have before us today. This year it will open and paint. Many will take pictures, including those who have done nothing to contribute to the construction of highways. But that's just the way it is. Especially in politics, that's how it is. I don't have a problem with that either. Maybe I would just say that because there was a lot of talk about these different initiatives, what to do and speed up. We in Prekmurje, due to the problems created at the time of entry into the European Union, received a committee in charge of the supervision of the construction of the motorway at the time of the abnormal increase in traffic. The last appearance of the representatives of this committee, I understand them as such, I think that's what Feri has already said that it is an initiative or a desire to accelerate, as far as possible, that this is not a wish for something abnormal. I would not have agreed to the demands of the builders that they could have done it very quickly, but they would have needed so many millions of euros if that had happened. I wouldn't agree to this option. I support the position of anyone who's here, including the minister, that this doesn't happen. There's also no reason to say the Minister's resignation or anything like that. This is just a moment of weakness being on one side or the other, and I think the matter can move on normally. If this story took place at this dusk for ten years, it may not be as dramatic two months sooner or later as it seems. Because it is such a time, each interprets it in its own way, and it is abuse, if you want, in one direction and the other. This is where I heard my colleagues say, yes, our civil initiative is fine, because we're committed to it, and your civil initiative is broken, because it thinks otherwise. Civil initiatives are just what they are. They're probably making a positive contribution, and in the middle of that, we have to accept it. In the end, maybe just a thought about these financing stories. It's a good thing the state roads have more money than they had. But they have it on account of the fact that highways from the budgets have all the money collected and are being built up from loans. Mostly from credits and in the way we saw it today when the Minister presented the matter. I remember when then Minister Christmas got the budget, like he was, when he was extremely surprised when they took all his money for the freeways, and he said I was going to build, because I don't have any money. Of course, then it happened because there was speculation about how to transfer the construction of highways to credits and then build state roads in the way they were built, which may not even be wrong. It is wrong in this highway work, where we have also presented the matter as a parliamentary group and there will be problems in the future. However, this year no one is likely interested. And in the end, it's just the wine. The UMAR government said no. Dr. Šuštaršič, I think that's how he wrote it, he said then, our analysis shows that it's not worth it, that it's not feasible and so on. And that's why we've had our doubts up to vignettes, but we still have them in one part, even though those of us who drive a long way and who drive a little bit more, we've supported the vines or the change of the law, just as I am today among those who will also support the annual program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Secretary with his team, colleagues and colleagues! The history of the construction of highways certainly colleague Juban knows well that it was probably interesting, varied, and that this placement was not easy and easy, not even in Pomurje. Because today, some candidates for these elections are appointed by the minister to meet the impossible conditions that he cannot meet with his team, and that candidate going to the polling station of the National Assembly should know. I believe that these pre-election stories will not end badly for a minister who has embarked on an excellent mission in this ministry. And also, as Comrade Juban said, even the opposition welcomes him positively, so that no candidate who is fighting for the elections will even try to overthrow him. I hope that he will not succeed and that the Minister will complete his mission in this government and will also monitor this historic or largest Darsa project, on the financial side that is so much needed for Slovenia, that there was no debate against it in the working body - we all support it, because we are all aware of where we come from, that this corridor is of exceptional importance for the development of both the economy and the population and we use it in one way or another. I would only congratulate the team and the Minister for this ambitious plan, for these figures, which are impressive, which will give a special impetus when we adopt this plan so that they can realise these long-standing expectations of the Slovenians and Slovenians around this highway cross. And this great support gives only additional support to the ministry, Dars, and also to supervisors to carry out this mission as qualitatively as possible. As I have already said on the Committee, I hope that there will be no too many complaints that can drag this matter forward again and limit this annual plan, so that it will not eventually come true in the expectation of all of us Members, the Government and, above all, the users. The Slovenian economy is looking forward to this completion. Because I come from Posavina and from Obreje to Ljubljana it will be a while before it will be. And see, Dolenjska has an extremely strong industry, led by Krka, what a problem today, when this is not yet a normal transition, is known by the economists who are dealing with these matters, and they also very much support the early completion. I hope that this vote extends to all those responsible who will carry out this task after this adoption of the plan. In Slovenia the motorways have already taken a major developmental traffic step - this is definitely true, but it is definitely not covering all of Slovenia. We know well that it covers this corridor, which is that part of Slovenia is also waiting for the so-called third development axis, which is, of course, at the time of this preparation of variants, both in the central part from Celje, Sevnica to New Town and in the direction of Trebnje as well as in the southern part in preparation. I think it is of utmost importance or at least as important as the completion of all relevant documents, consents and the adoption of a national location plan, that this documentation, which is extremely slow, is long-lasting, because today every placement in space requires significantly more energy than it did years ago. Whether it's a road or some other object of this kind of intervention into space. That is why legislation is extremely difficult. In the meantime, there are also civil initiatives to say, individual municipalities and all of this takes a substantial amount of time to reach the final document, which is suitable, which is comprehensible, and which is also then acceptable to local environments, wherever this third development axis is going to take place. There has also been a lot of talk on state roads in this mandate of the National Assembly, on the Transport Committees. That's right. There were also a lot more funds earmarked for these state roads, which are also of exceptional importance throughout Slovenia. Yes, of course we also have to admit that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Many work in Slovenia, these state roads are being renovated. [[...]] Of course, every kilometer will certainly not end in this mandate. Even in the next term, it will not be able to complete itself. But this intensity is considerable, I can say that, and I think it's going to be a thank you maybe some of the conclusion that we're just a little more funding for highways from the credit line. And here is a few more possibilities for funding through the Directorate for Maintenance and Restoration of State Roads, which all, probably Members from all parts of Slovenia, necessarily expect for greater security and flow from where they come. I am confident that this today, I hope that as much as possible agreement on this plan, and even later guarantee that it is that the National Assembly and the Government and the Ministry are in the same place that we want the same thing to happen as soon as possible, with as few problems surrounding the complaints. As for today's very topical event, which will take place very soon, July 1st, you are guilty, we have also nearly PhDed in the National Assembly, in particular the Transport Committee. I am convinced that this is a step towards a fairer payment of the users of state roads. But I'm not gonna say he's optimally honest. Definitely. But certainly more fair than the one we use today on Slovenian roads. It's probably not that shared either, but we're pretty much together. But that's not optimal, and we all know. We didn't say it was the last step. I only hope that the scenario or the key to funding will be so successful that so much or more money will be collected as is expected by the Ministry or Dars in this area of sale of vineyards. Time will soon show whether we are on the right track and whether the purchasers are on the right track according to the expected calculations, so that we can get enough of our own resources from the selected roads for use and payment of the highway. However, I am very pleased that this will be distributed to all users. Not only did some of us pay a lot today, but some of us pay more easily, nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've only got a minute left, so very briefly. On page 29, under order number 7, you have a compensation for the performance of the contract, for which I do not know exactly what this means, amounting to EUR 34.66 million. On several occasions in this Chamber, I have already pointed out exports from the Arja motorway to the village to connect to Velenje and Koroška, where we want them, and this is entirely justified, the connection in the form of a child, not in the form of a diamond, as we now have. The third development axis is moving away from all the information we have. This can also be seen in this document, although Mr President of the Government has announced that we will plant a shovel in 2008 and that there is no shovel. Maybe she ended up somewhere else. Therefore, I am particularly reminding you that this connection in Arja village is very controversial, very dangerous, very frequent, it is said, very transportable and more should be done in this area. Unfortunately, so far there has been no hearing, so I take this opportunity, Mr Minister, to urge you once again to think this way, in view of the shift in the construction of the third development axis, to at least take care of the security of the only real exports that Velenje and Koroška landscape have, and this is in Arja village.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll support the proposal myself. Not only is this because, as we have already heard, after this programme, there is a solution to the agony in which Pomurje has been in for more than four years. Not only is it, but it's getting worse from day to day and they're really unsustainable. We've heard several different readings before, but on the other hand, I can argue once again, and anyone who knows the situation can therefore agree that neither the previous government nor the current government could have foreseen this, and even less any third government that would be after entry. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Thank you very much for your attention! After Slovenia's entry into the European Union, the volume of traffic will increase by factor 5, with peaks up to 10. And because of this I point out, it is not that Pomurje now gets something, it is that the fire is extinguished, that the situation is restored to what the people of Pomurje deserve and, as elsewhere in Slovenia, is normal and normal. It may be hard to imagine, but that's exactly why I'm going to do it again. Over a million 200 trucks drive through Pomurje every year with transit alone. There are many who drive across Slovenia who do not cross the border. Of course, there are none in this statistic. That means at least two per minute on average, two minutes means the truck drove by the house four times. It's hard to imagine, even more, if people live there, even more so if they don't drive on these roads. And why am I pointing that out? Releas this because, of course, it is so important that this highway is built as soon as possible, that it surrenders itself as soon as possible to its purpose and that normal conditions in Pomura are established as soon as possible. For this reason, I support, and similarly, the position of all the Members of the Pomeranian Parliament adopted at the current meeting. We support and personally support the Minister's efforts to build as soon as possible, but at the same time, of course, we call on all actors, including contractors, or especially them, to do their utmost to take advantage of the nice winter that has already been, good weather conditions, which allow accelerated construction, so that the road will be handed over as soon as possible to its purpose. At that time, however, everything must be done to make life easier for those who live on the road. To continue with measures, short-term measures allowing safe and human life on this road. I call on this programme to ensure that all those accompanying activities, either window replacements or sound seals, or repairs of damaged roads, are no longer neglected, and we have heard much about this, because of the construction and construction of the highway. There is, of course, a great deal of interference by operators, including deception, and this is exactly what I am devoting to the debate that it is necessary to approach this in a timely manner. In the end, blackmail is unacceptable, for the municipalities have the legitimate right not to give consent and then the Ministry does not pay the shares until the conditions are rectified until those facilities or repaired damaged buildings, especially roads, have been built for the construction of highways. I warn you this, for many who should be correcting this matter now are being misled. The next very important aspect is, of course, economic. We've heard about this before. He pointed out that investors are avoiding Pomurje. I'll add two more important matters. The first aspect is certainly tourism. Murje, where we celebrate the invincible hospitality, will certainly gain in terms of tourism at the expense of the construction of the highway. Even more important than the same approach is the apparent psychological approach when the region will not seem to anyone at the end of the world just because it reaches Maribor in one hour, then it needs a good hour or more for the rest, less than a third of the way. An announced prison, which was announced by a committee whose member, unfortunately, I am not, but I did participate in that session with which the committee had announced it. With regard to road closure, I would first point out one fact, and I would like to point out to the Minister at this point, I would like to commend him for blocking the road on Saturday and Sunday, which is a big deal, since it allows people in Pomura, especially those who live directly along the road, at least a normal weekend. And if this prison is voted on - I personally will certainly not have a lot of concerns against the road closure, but I would point out that I will not understand it against the minister, I will not understand it at all against the current policy, but I will understand it as another additional activity to the previously exposed activities that will facilitate the lives of people on this road during the transitional period. If the road is closed, then it would be a logical way to take other paths to cross Austria. Why are they driving across Pomurje now? Because it's free. And that's where you have to pay the toll. If they drive across Austria, they have to pay the highway, the toll. And if there is a prison, I would like not to have an additional burden on the local population, so that the local population will not suffer because of this, but one that, as I said, will not have the same concerns that will cause traffic in this transitional period until the highway is opened up to a greater extent from Pomur to other roads, including the previously mentioned roads where motorways are already built. However, for economic reasons, drivers prefer to take the path we are talking about. There have been some speculations about regionalisation before. The provinces that we discussed this morning certainly have nothing to do with it. Construction of motorways is by no means part of the provincial legislation. It is true, however, that provincial legislation provides for some jurisdiction for the provinces as well in the area of state roads. However, another additional reason why we need to be so much more careful and so much more skeptical is, in fact, confirmed by the failure to approve provincial legislation. Again, commitments are transferred to the province, and in a significantly larger proportion than the funds provided for this, such as the money provided for it, the province will again have to take care of state roads for which it will not receive as much money as is necessary. Here, I stress, it does not appear to refer to this, nor at all in terms of faster or more equitable economic development, which should have been the result of so many times for Pomurje. I'm afraid it's the other way around. With less developed environments, it is also considered that Correlative infrastructure, particularly road infrastructure, is less developed. We can also see that on the highway case. If I finish. I will support, of course I will vote in favour, and I wish that everyone's efforts, as I have previously announced, will be as successful as possible and the highway will be opened as soon as possible. This and the same everywhere in Slovenia. But once again, here, right here in Pomour, the most critical situation is now. Since such exceptional situations have occurred, it is also right for all of us to support this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u226	Have a good evening still on holiday, Mr Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! We're still celebrating, yeah, but we're doing great today. And let me begin by saying that I am pleased with this annual programme and that I can say that this government, this ministry has really done a great deal in this mandate, I hope to say the most possible thing in the construction of the highway programme. Nevertheless, I must say that it is obvious that this speed of construction of highways is speeding up the growing traffic on our roads. I can see that every morning as I approach Ljubljana. I can tell you that traffic has grown abnormally in six months. Now we stop at Domžal's imports and stand for a while and then we start moving slowly forward. This concerns me because, in fact, it shows that this increase in traffic is not really a piece of construction that quickly. However, I am sad about this programme, as Mr Kontič has already said, the promise was made by the President of the Government that we will plant a shovel on the third development axis this fall. We knew that probably wouldn't work. On this occasion, however, I would really like to ask you to exert all possible force to really start things on this third development axis, especially in the work to Velenje and Šostanja. In the SA-USA region, we have set up a Committee for the Development of the Region by economists, mayors and Members, which has the first priority of building this road. And last Monday, we also called on both ministries to proceed immediately to phase-in, allowing for the beginning of the most urgent section of this fast road. I am sure that there will be obedience here and that you will indeed do everything at the Ministry of Environment and Space, as at your Ministry, so that we can open this fast road as soon as possible, according to Velenje. Because with this work too, Koroška will be more open to Slovenia in some way. I am aware that placing a highway is a demanding business, but give all the things you can do at the same time or give certain things to get ahead of themselves and thus speed up construction. And I'm gonna end up leaving some more time with the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. When we finished this morning's session of the Committee on Local Self-Government, I set out to go home, and I am on my way here, following traffic regulations, especially stressing what I am always doing, spending an hour and maybe a minute more. In the morning, when I was returning to Ljubljana, I spent more than two hours on this journey. I'm lucky to have joined the Fram connection, and I've avoided some kind of cover that my colleague, Boštian Zagorec, took 55 minutes from there. So, if you went to the highway first, it would take three hours. Three hours for 100 and a few miles. This indicates that our roads, highways, are already overloaded today, let alone that we are talking about areas where there is no highway at all. That's one. Second. If we look at the situation at the toll stations. What is now, and in two, three years, this situation has actually deteriorated disastrously, is impossible. That's impossible. Parking lots full of trucks, driving around the greens, on islands, wherever they are, even on the runways they have already parked. Sometimes you can't even get to the gas station, because there's just too many of these trucks, which suggests that our currently built highway network is already overloaded, that it's going to be necessary in a very short time, or that we're going to think about expanding it immediately. If we look at the situation on our regional roads. I myself know the situation on the road Maribor - Klavž, Parents, forward to Ptuj or Gruškov. In moments, no, these are not moments, these are times when increased traffic takes half an hour to wait for you to cross the road. And then there's what's next. The fact that we do not have properly built-in transport infrastructure already hampers some very important, including state or economic projects, various logistics, production, industrial centres. There at my end in Pesnica, at the Maribor airport, in Slovenska Bistrica, etc. And all of this shows that there's no choice but to build these highways, we just don't have it. This is essential for Slovenia to develop. It will solve these vignettes in some ways, but the final solution to these problems, problems, is to build a whole network of highways and state roads as well as tolling in free traffic. Those who speculate on who will pay it, when will it be repaid, etc. Please! Without this transport infrastructure, we simply cannot function anymore. And the fact is that highways, if we're talking about the highway construction programme, we have to build. And the fact is, we're going to have to fund it, too. Now it's just a decision. Whether at some slow pace we will slowly build these highways and in 30 years we will build this highway cross and the other branches that are needed, or we will use some normal instrument, that is to commit ourselves and build roads as soon as possible. I think this is the only possible solution for Slovenia, and I don't see any particular problem here. Especially because it's some long-term projects that are, of course, a matter of generations. For this reason, I think that the decision of this government coalition at the beginning of the mandate to speed up the construction of motorways to adopt an ambitious programme, a programme which is very busy on time, is also very difficult to invest, but this was the only possible solution. I am also pleased to see this in particular, not only that we have adopted programmes, but also that highways are actually being built. To build, to build, to build up quickly, and to say that every few months we will open up some important section of the highway that we have been waiting for for perhaps decades. If I'm looking at an area where I'm close alone. Autoroad Slivnica - Dražanci is being built and next year this section will be opened. We're going to solve a lot of problems that people in that area are suffering. And not just those, but the others looking for a proper transport connection. We're connecting Maribor to Pomour. I think it will also be a very large gain for the whole of northeast Slovenia. The programme is in implementation. I think it's within our capabilities, so I'll support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament. Every year I support, I vote in favour of the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways. Also because something has been added every year in Dolenjska. Above all, it promised that the motorway would be built in this mandate. That's certainly what Minister Christmas promised. It is now in the 2009 programme. We're not reading anything. Above all, we are pleased that it is actually building on this section and I must say that it is building faster than the route to this section. As it is said, the annual plan is extremely tense, rich, both financially and according to plan, according to sections. Practically one quarter of the motorway infrastructure is expected to turn itself in this year for use by miles. And as we have heard, 700 projects are on state roads. This is certainly not negligible, as has been said in some circles of the opposition. However, I ask you, Minister, how is the connection of the Miren Valley to the highway in Trebnje. What about those parts that have not yet been handed over to the contractor on the highway in Dolenjska? This is practically the last leg, or final section, which is actually at the beginning of the construction and if we want this second year to be dedicated to traffic, we will probably have to hurry. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues! I am also pleased to support this ambitious highway maintenance and construction plan, because such a plan by Slovenia needs and would need it so ambitious many years ago, every year to have a highway cross built and to have a substantial amount more of it in the past and to contribute to decentralisation. From the region where I come, Dolenjsko-Belokranjska, we are unfortunately the last region that will obviously receive this motorway leg to be connected to Ljubljana. However, it is now possible to see the light at the end of this tunnel, so we are all coming from this work to this government, to this ministry, also grateful, because this highway will mean a great deal to you in the rapid development of this region. This year, in the plan or next month, the opening of a 5.5km motorway connecting everything from Kronov to Hrastje, which means that we will have from the New City to Krske or Brežice the highway part connected, means that there is still 14 kilometers to Ljubljana, which is planned to be completed in the following year. It is true that it was planned in 2005 and in 2006 that there is a real possibility that the whole motorway connection would be completed by the end of 2008. It's past Trebnje, too. However, the blame for this delay cannot be attributed to the Government or the Ministry, since everything that was in its power has been done by the State. Means, a decision on the route was taken, a location plan was drawn up, a state location plan, funds were provided. Unfortunately, as in many cases, land purchases have been blocked, where individuals have been blackmailed by unrealistic price requirements and also by calls that are always due to the delay of these proceedings due to unjustifiable complaints. And we have also witnessed this in this part of Slovenia. But whatever. These things are now somewhere in the construction phase and next year, I think it can reasonably be expected that this road will also be completed. And even now, as I drive to Ljubljana every day, it is possible to see that earth's works are being intensively carried out and, somewhere, it is also realistic to expect that this will actually be realized. In this plan, around €90 million is earmarked for this part, which is 20% of all the money planned in Slovenia for the construction and reconstruction of motorways. This is quite a part of this cake, and I think that these funds are actually also a guarantee that this can be realized. Today, it has been possible to detect several times by some debaters eternal deception, the dilemma of "as" a controversial way of financing that Dars, as a state-guaranteed firm, is in charge of building highways. I think or I am sure, and this can also be proved, even all economists will be able to confirm this, that such a way of financing can be most optimal and, of course, realistic. It is true that the state gives guarantees. However, I firmly believe that this guarantee will be written on paper, but with the tolls we will also be able to repay these loans. And most importantly, they will be repaid by those who use highways. They will not repay, as the taxpayers say, that everyone will contribute. That's not true. Those who use or use motorways. And mostly foreigners. It is right that foreigners will pay, and it would be right that even a greater share, because in the past, when we were building with budget money, means that we were actually building with tax money. And, of course, that's right. And here's about those numbers by the year 2070, it's pure deception, demagogy. Given the increased volume of traffic, given that we will have traffic in this year, if I recall correctly, about 90 km of motorways, it means that traffic will continue to increase. Inflows from this heading will be higher from month to month, meaning that the repayment period, including those still to be leased, will be significantly shorter than planned. But let's not talk about the so-called opportunities costs that must have arisen in Slovenia because we did not have a previously completed highway connection. I can certainly say this for this part of Slovenia, for the Novo Mesto or for Dolenjska, where we have very many successful companies whose road links would make much more, we can also say profits, better development if the motorway was completed, mainly due to the staffing needs that Central Slovenia could provide, where such personnel from the pharmaceutical sector, from the automotive industry more, given that it lacks it in Dolenjska. On the last visit of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Novi mesto or Dolenjska, it was possible to detect or the statements of prominent economists were as follows. From you as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or from the country we expect and want you to build us a highway. That's what we need. Anything else we can do on our own. Let's listen to this appeal, and I think we'll do what they need. And this will give us all: Slovenia, the region as such and, of course, the inhabitants. That is why I think it is right that we work in the future in this way, and the highway will be completed. However, we must probably pursue or serve similar methodologies when the third development axis, as well as the fourth and all of the following, is being built. It's the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Cyril Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I'll only ask two short questions, given that time is short. I'm interested in Razdrto-Vipava, the fast road. It is scheduled for surrender in September, and some voices are being heard that this will not be until December. Since this has often been a nuisance, I am interested in your answer. And the other thing. If there are provinces, what does that mean for the fourth development axis. Is this the road that comes under state interference? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Mag. Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers, welcome! At this point, when we talk about Darsa's annual plan, I want to express in some way the satisfaction that we will finally have time to get a highway in the Slovenian Mountains. And I hope that, as planned, this year's traffic will be able to pass through these places, which are now very busy with traffic. I would like to mention the city or municipality in the central Slovenian Gorica, Lenart, where we meet daily with such large traffic, especially transit and freight, and the burdens on this road G-1/3, and the injuries that are taking place on these roads, so that citizens and citizens and everyone can't really wait for this thing to be finished and put on the market. While my predecessors have already spoken of similar cases, I, the distinguished Minister, would like to raise a question on this occasion or to point back to one fact. By means of a national location plan adopted in 2004 or a regulation on the basis of which a national location plan was adopted, Lenart envisaged that Lenart would also receive a so-called linkage road of less than 3 kilometres. And all this time, there were obstacles, obstacles. On the axis of this route, a cultural historical object was protected. Then the people who live along this route also asked the Constitutional Court about the placement of this connecting road in the space. And that's why, because of these obstacles so far, this connecting road has not come into Darsa's plan. The regulation states that this road will be built by the Republic of Slovenia, of course the part that belongs and the rest will have to be contributed by the municipality. I now note that, in fact, these obstacles have recently been answered very clearly by the Constitutional Court and rejected their initiative, and we expect that, even yesterday, there was an extraordinary meeting in our congregation and the locals expect or expect this road to be put into the annual plan. So I expect this to be next year's plan. Now it couldn't be done because those were the obstacles I was talking about, but we expect it to be in the next year. Transport, which increases by almost 10% annually or around 7, as those involved in this number say, will be needed, regardless of the fact that this highway will be open by Lenart and that transit traffic will be through. This road also means development, not only for this place, but also for a good part of Slovenian Gorica and all the way to the Austrian border. This national location plan and this southern route from Lenart and the connecting road, this was the proposal of traffic experts and the municipality has actually confirmed and accepted this proposal and we now expect the Ministry of Transport to put this connecting road into the programme in the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a team! I support this annual highway construction programme, but I would like to remind you of one thing, because in the debate it was said a little mockery that there would be a lot of painting on the highways this year. And I'd say I'm glad if there's a lot of painting, because that means there's going to be a lot of new miles of highway built. But I'm also happy that this year, I'm not going to say it's the first time, but usually from previous years we've opened shorter motorway sections, it's just that it applied, but this year will also open long motorway sections. And that can make us especially happy. On the other hand, I would like to mention that I hope and wish that the Minister will not accept the political game of this civil initiative, which we call the Follow-up Committee for the Construction of Highways in Pomure, and that he will not give up one month before the construction of the 10-year project. That would be contrary to any logic, including sound thinking. And I can't imagine what it would be like if there were more ministers like that who would take such a political game so seriously, because this is no longer about building a highway before a certain hand, but about a simple game. Of course, I understand those people who live there, but in the end, I'll tell you something else. It's not just them, but there's somewhere else that has the same rights, and don't use it because he knows it's not serious. I would like to remind you of something that I have been pointing out for almost ten years in this House, namely the tolling problem. Since the closed system somehow began to retreat and when an open toll system was adopted on Slovenian motorways. I am alone in the area of very close to the toll station in Tepanj, which is one of the first to be built after this new open system. And what's the problem? If I take away all the other stuff, I have to say that those of us who are attached to this highway connection in Tepanj, we have to pay every mile or every meter we drive on the highway, and the others drive well for twenty, thirty kilometers. In Slovenian Konjice, this is said in Tepanj, is a special toll station next to this front for local connection. And there it is also necessary to pay for the first next branch in Drumlje, which is five kilometers forward and, of course, for all the rest of the following. But I don't want to talk about the payment. That's a special problem. I would say that at our end we are looking forward to these solutions with vignettes, because this problem and a number of others, which I will also briefly point out, will be solved. Problems will be solved, problems will be solved, especially as the tourist season approaches. But it's the residents of these stations that live here. This station is practically on the edge of a settlement where there are very large houses. There's practically no fence. And all those trucks that roll over the Prekmurje, they come to this toll station and they all have to stop, I say, at home, they have to "restraint." What happens then, we all know. And then you have to speed it up five meters forward when you cross that toll station. And what happens when we accelerate, and we know what happens. And all those trucks are doing it, plus trucks coming from the north, they say, from Austria. So pollution of the environment, stopping and accelerating, protection fences. And the next thing you know, there's access to the highway from the regional road Celje-Maribor and there's traffic jams because it's at the entrance to the toll station, where there's only one entrance, one entry line, and there's a column across the entire regional road. Then you probably don't have to talk about how things are going to go down now that this toll station isn't going to go down when you're practically free to take the highway and drive right through. That's how all these problems are solved. And I'm happy here that the problem of building a second entry path to a highway connection has not been built, because now it would be completely unnecessary. Okay, sometimes some slowness is good and positive and there's no spending money. All these problems will be solved with the introduction of vinjets. Here I would congratulate the minister and the team, and the government, after all, that she took this decision courageously, that she even hoped to do it and go to the vineyards. We know what's in the back, what the lobby is in the back, and so far it's just not possible. And our objection to why it is possible in Austria that they have guilt and do not have such a toll system was the answer that the Austrians agreed when they entered the European Union. And now we find that that wasn't true. That is why I also supported the introduction of vinjets at the time. Now I wanted to warn you what all these vinjets are going to do. Of course, there will be significantly more favourable conditions at these front toll stations. I only mentioned the beating, which is practically in the middle of a dense settlement, there live a lot of people, and all those trucks that came from the east and north stopped there. Everyone had to stop. And that a truck that has some 10 tons stops, it needs energy and brakes, and then acceleration and energy is used up again. And if we're only talking about the environmental problem, we see what we've solved with the vignettes for the inhabitants of these neighborhoods around toll stations. Considering that much will be done this year, which, of course, is a good basis for moving forward, of course, I support this programme of highway construction, and I hope that the next one will also be so ambitious and that this famous highway cross will be built as quickly as possible and then remain parts, three and four and more, something else that has already been mentioned today by other colleagues. I'll vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I might have said something about the system itself about the introduction. There's been a lot of talking about it today. A system for the construction of motorways [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u241	I'm sorry, there's something wrong. Here you go. You've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u242	About the system that's been building since the highway started and it's built very well. More or less, it was always only the Ministry and Dars and it was forgotten about the third important element, the DDC. I have very clearly pointed out this segment as well, and there are many reasons for the motorways to be built as they were built, and given that so many readings fly on all of this together, even that this system was built as it was built, and all of these patterns that repeat themselves, from the annexes to the additional parts and so on, are of course the result only of this. It would be even more necessary, according to my assessment, to cut into this system in order to somehow get it into some framework. Otherwise, I'd like to comment on a few things. As far as credit is concerned. We'll talk about 25 years of funding a little later, because the whole year was mentioned. As far as maintenance is concerned, much has been said, and the great columns that come with it. I made it clear that I asked Dars not to have maintenance and a roadblock in this summer season. Because I don't understand this very explanation that during the summer months, the best thing to do is to do these jobs, when all of us are always and again afraid of the tourist seasons, because that will be the biggest problem and the biggest problem. The profession, on the other hand, explains the opposite, that it is best to do these tasks in the summer. And that's why we said no, but this year we're not gonna do that, and we're gonna move this thing to the fall. There's been a mention of surveillance. I have talked a lot about control myself in this short term of office, and I think that one of the key elements is that the construction of motorways is most rational.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Check-in is on. Mr. Milan Friday. Everyone has three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u244	Thank you, Chairman. The Minister has given me the point that I really am participating in this debate for a short time or after this passive monitoring. Mr. Minister, I believe in your efforts to change a few things in the road area. But what you said last time you decided not to rebuild the highway this summer, I think it's a bit of a bust. And I don't know if there's really such a mistrust and such a gap between what your experts at Dars are doing and at DDC, and what you're actually doing is so flat-rate and just so simple with some facts. The fact is, if we were to be told, we decided to save a little money, and we're going to give a little bit of this budget to rebuild and build highways, but you said, we're going to be doing this in the fall because there's more traffic on the highways in the summer. But how many of us in all this line of work have heard this in the previous term, where they have told us with accurate analyses and ideas that it is at this very time, even though we all feel that the biggest traffic on the road is really less. Transport is declining during this period. And if it is now a decision that you have, because you have, after feeling that it is better to do this in the fall, I suggest that you think about it anyway, consult with your experts, who I do not defend, that they do not think so and because they need to be defended as experts. Then at least somebody should tell me who's credible in this story. So far, we have believed the numbers given to us from this same house, while other people are sitting here with you, and now you're convincing us about another. I personally doubt that. I think we're a little bit more sensitive at the time, because we think we need to get on the road very quickly and so on, and we have fewer nerves for what we are experiencing now when we have to stand by some sections and roads. So my advice and my proposal is just, consider this your thought, tell us once on any occasion or on the Transport Committee, or after this conversation you always think that, but not in your mind, but with numbers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, I came to the hall when the minister just mentioned the '70s, and I assume it's about paying off the loans. At the same time, my colleague Sok wondered in his debate how I knew that I was talking about the year 2070 as the year when the obligations arising from the leased loans would be paid. If we look at the comparison of the 2008 plan with the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, we can find that only 8.7% in 2008, compared with the resolution on the national programme adopted. So 178.3 million earmarked funds should be made available this year as the best-quality resource, and we only allocate 15.5 million euros. If we look at a table that says that the debt liabilities, the principal's return and interest payments will amount to EUR 126.37 million in 2008, at the same time, we find that the concession fee amounts to EUR 124.63 million. Therefore, already in 2008, the concession fee does not cover the liabilities of the leased loans. Since we do not have a rebalancing of the resolution on the national programme, the National Assembly does not know when the loans will be paid, because the resolution is the only document in which it is necessary to very precisely define the obligations under the leased loans. And this document does not have a National Assembly. To date, no one has replied to me whether this year is the year 2070 that we are talking so much about that these obligations will be paid if the conditions are such that the toll system will provide sufficient funds, of course, from tolls, but it can happen that it will also have to be affected by budgetary resources and provide money from the budget, because Dars will be indebted. So, with this explanation to colleague Sok, who is not currently in the Chamber, perhaps once again a question to the Minister: why do we not already service the full debt of concessions in 2008 because we know that 177 million euros are actually being raised, but we are only making them in fact 124, despite the fact that the obligation to credit is 126 million euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u248	The fundamental discussion on this last annual road development and renewal plan for 2008 is the same as in all previous years of this mandate - and this is the case for financially unsustainable projects. This year, however, this is particularly confirmed by the fact that we are introducing vignettes from 1 July 2008. The revenue shortfalls are so high, especially when we have complaints from various already announced AMD societies and this north of us that we will have to do the same as in Hungary, and this is, to take Dars' debt into Slovenian public finances. And then, Mr. Minister, the fact will be very simple. The state budget will not be in excess of 1%, but it will be down to 2% of gross domestic product, as 948 resources for the implementation of the annual development plan and the renewal of motorways for 2008 are to be included in the expenditure of the state budget. These are mathematically verifiable facts. The former researcher, current member of the Dars administration, calculated this in 2005, was repeated in 2007 by Mr Križanič at the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law. Because, in this mandate, you have not been able to provide from the state budget as much funding as we have provided in all past mandates, these loans will be returned by 2050, 2070. Whether it will be 2050 or 2050, it depends, above all, on how deep the financial crisis will be in the European and global markets and also on Dars' ability to borrow new funds. These are the facts. And beyond that, you can't. And to boast that this year's year is about to increase according to last year's nominal figures only means that prices per unit will increase by about 13%. Construction capacity in Slovenia has not increased by 13%, foreign potential tunnel suppliers have been rejected, so we have a double situation; we have an increase in the money to be returned by 2050, 2050, and we have a unit of anything - bridge, highway, tunnel in 2008 by around 13% [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] These are the facts, Mr. Minister, you are acting as irresponsible here as your predecessor from the previous part of this government's mandate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar has the floor. I'm closing the debate. Decision on a proposal for a decision on an agreement [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] I don't know who has the word. [[...]] The decision on the proposal for a decision on an agreement on the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways for 2008 will be held today in accordance with the timing of the meeting. You will be informed of the voting hour. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the consent and growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars, D. D. From the credits and issuance of debt securities for the implementation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme of Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 544.22 million, following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister, mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Dars liabilities under credits and debt securities for the realisation of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia of EUR 544.22 million is providing financial resources for the implementation of the annual development plan and the renewal of motorways in 2008, which is in the process of issuing the consent of the National Assembly or which we have just considered. In view of the need to provide financial resources for road sections and other items under this year's development and re-establishment plan, and also for the following years, we propose that the proposed law be adopted by the National Assembly in accordance with the urgent procedure for the adoption of legislation. The law will allow the conclusion of contracts for the rental of credits and the issuance of debt securities for the realisation of motorway sections from the national programme of EUR 544.22 million, under the basic conditions set out in the bill itself. The funds of credits or debt securities will be used to finance the construction of motorway sections and other items under the national programme and this year's road development and renewal plan. However, the amounts of debt under the existing consent and guarantee laws are as follows. First, the 2005 law for €360 million. At the end of 2007, the free quota under this law was €145 million. At the end of March 2008, Dars owed 145 million euros, making the quota under this law used. Secondly, the 2006 law for EUR 1,030 billion. At the end of 2007, the free quota under this law was still EUR 390 million. In the case of funds received from cohesion funds in the Beltinci-Lendava and Slivnica-Drazenci section, the debt quota under this law shall be reduced at an appropriate level, meaning that part of the quota under this law will remain unused. In 2008, Dars intends to borrow EUR 70.4 million under this law. And thirdly, the bill submitted for EUR 544 million. In 2008, Dars intends to borrow EUR 197.1 million under this law. The issue of consent and guarantees is combined into a single law, as has already been proposed and confirmed in the case of consent and guarantee for credit liabilities that Dars has leased with the European Investment Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the President, Mr Josip Bajc, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u252	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleague and colleague, distinguished minister. At its 23rd urgent meeting, the Transport Committee held a hearing on the Proposal for a Law on the Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Darsa, a shareholder company, credits and debt securities issued for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections under the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 544.22 million. In the opening presentation, Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjav presented the objectives of the proposed law, which allow for the timely provision of all necessary resources, which are a prerequisite for the award of works, the start or completion of the construction of motorway sections. The total investment value of these motorway sections is 2 million 791 thousand - 2 thousand 791.51 million euros. Funds to finance these sections will be provided from their own resources of €616.17 million, resources already provided of €1631.11 million and financial loans foreseen or debt securities issued totalling €544.22 million. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly drew attention to the provisions of Article 6a of the Law on a Company for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in the first paragraph of this Article, requires the rental of loans and the issuance of debt securities of Darsa, d.d. to finance the obligation of Article 3(1) and (2) of the same law by prior consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by special law. No amendments were tabled to the draft law and the Transport Committee, in accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, held a discussion on all the articles of the bill. In the debate, individual members of the Committee considered that the proposal for a law should be supplemented in accordance with the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the debate, most members of the Committee considered that the bill was drafted in the same text as a similar law that the National Assembly had considered and adopted in 2006 and therefore there was no reason to supplement the text, since such a proposal did not constitute a precedent. The Transport Committee of the National Assembly therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Law on the Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Darsa of the Shareholder Company on credits and issuance of debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 544.22 million, be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Respected and respected! If we have discussed and said much today about the plan to build motorways for 2008, it is true that, with the proposal for a law on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Darsa's obligations, we will also give a green light to the bill. In order to provide €544.22 million in a timely manner as a source of funding, which, together with its own resources and in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, would allow for the award of works at the said motorway sections, a law on the said consent and guarantee should be adopted as soon as possible. The adoption of the law is also necessary due to the smooth implementation of the annual plan for the renewal and development of motorways for 2008. If this law is not adopted, there is no basis for implementing the annual road renewal and development plan for 2008. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, all we have to do is confirm this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. Once again, welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In the proposal for a law on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to Darsa’s credit obligations, it should be stressed that, in accordance with the adopted and applicable legislation, in particular the Dars Act, only a proposal for a law on the consent to rent credits should be considered today. This is a legal provision that is very clear, but the proposaler does not consciously respect it, and today we are considering consent and guarantees, which is contrary to the Dars law. Indeed, the guarantee should only be accepted for the obligations arising from the debt, and this is also provided for in our legal order. However, this is not the only way or way to avoid legislative standards. Let me say that there is also no law on the provision of funds for the construction of state roads. Following the resolution this year, we should make a contribution of EUR 178 million under this heading and only EUR 15 million is allocated by the Government and, of course, credits should be leased. Even if we look at the comparison by drawing on European funds, we can see that Slovenia has paid €90 million more in the European budget in the first four months of this year than it has drawn from the European budget. It also means that from this title, because we are unsuccessful in drawing on funds, but we certainly have projects, we have programmes in the area of highway construction, but it is not being implemented to this extent so that we can draw on at least as much as we are paying into the European budget. It is not surprising, therefore, that we are meeting today with a loan agreement and guarantee of EUR 544.22 million. However, the law also contains an item referring to the compensation for the execution of the contract and it is also very clear here that Dars cannot be charged with compensation for the execution of the contract because he does not have a basis in the Dars Act. However, it is EUR 35 million, which will obviously be credited, and for this there is no basis in the Dars Act. This surprises us that we are faced with such an unprecedented approach to such great commitments, and not least when these loans are being repaid, because neither the National Assembly nor anyone in this country will actually know whether credits are being repaid for the construction of motorways or for compensation for the execution of orders and so on. We believe that it is really high time to make a serious analysis of when and how loans will be returned, especially for the reason that we will be able to update and build other state roads. Last but not least, we must not forget that Slovenian railways and all the rail infrastructure system are waiting for us, which has deteriorated enormously in the past period and is drowning again and again in great losses. And I believe that this is part of the means of maintaining state roads under the law, including the payment of losses in Slovenian railways, which means that we cover everything, but not what is most necessary - this is the road infrastructure from the means of destination that we collect under the applicable law. Thus, we cannot be satisfied with all these serious concerns that we are again faced with the €544 million bill in the million-euro bill, before that for €360 million. In short, EUR 1.9 million has only been leased in the last period, totalling around €3 billion today. I hope that even a sober warning to the government to stop such a way of building without serious construction to pay off these loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek, parliamentary position on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u258	Good-bye! Unfortunately, the Minister is not here because I wanted to remind him of something that I think could happen to him in the future. Otherwise, we have read in the media that somehow he is not particularly willing to run and possibly be an MP. I'm sure if I ran, I'd just be an MP, not a minister. And I would probably look with other eyes at the situation we have in this area that we are talking about today. Since he would be in opposition, he would be aware of how dangerous Dars trees are, of course, including the Republic of Slovenia and its budget, of the situation where he will not be able to meet all the ambitions he should have, or the tasks he should have performed, because even in his time and during his predecessor's time, such a modified structure of the parts of the means to build a highway programme that in fact threatens long-term sustainability! What long-term, short-term sustainability. At that time, I would probably also attach myself to those who feel that, when hiring or lending consents and credits for subcredits and for other sources, legislation must be respected in particular. In this case, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly for the second year or third year in a row has pointed out that the way in which this law is dealt with and adopted is inadequate, that it does not comply with the Dars Act, that procedures are not appropriate, "that is to say" that we combine consents and approvals with one law and that we are therefore acting against legislation that we have adopted ourselves. Mr Minister may not be a lawyer, but I think he has a lot of colleagues around him who can tell him that we should do so. Now, as a minister, he wants to carry out the programme and makes legal obligations or legal obligations aside. That's the way it is. The future will show who was right. Consent to Darsa's proposed assignments also means an act that is very brave and responsible. EUR 544 million is a high amount, especially since the total amount of Dars' debt will so strongly exceed EUR 4 billion. How long it will take for us to pay these obligations or to pay them is a well - known story. The funding system must ensure the financial sustainability of Dars, whose indebtedness we know today is about two and a half billion. And with what we are doing today, there will be a strong increase and a common commitment with interest and other commitments will come close to four billion. This is the number that is questionable or questionable if it will allow regular repayment of the annuity, and in particular the implementation of new projects, such as the need for additional highway programmes on the third and fourth development axis projects, but we all know that we should work intensively and prepare activities and maybe start activities to extend the motorways, which in some environments mean already strong traffic interference and all the consequences that this entails - of course, I am thinking about the stagger, in one part to the bottom and to the coastal part. It is therefore particularly good to note that this has happened again and again, in fact, that Darsa’s method of financing has changed, the Government’s fault in the budget, which has deviated from what we have also committed by law or national programme, that every year we will spend about 150, 154 million euros in the budget for the financing of Darsa’s projects. Today's 15 million is 10% of what we should be doing. The consequences may not be felt at this time, but they will soon feel. This is a systemic problem; a problem that goes beyond the responsibility and responsibility of the Minister of Transport and concerns the Government as a whole. The government justified this by accelerating the construction of state roads. We attach it to it, but it has to be selective. However, if we know, and it has already been said that we are awaiting the renewal and rehabilitation of the railway system, which we have not heard much about in this House and, as it seems, Minister Žerjav will not come before us with the national programme for the development of the railway system, this concern and this package is so worrying that we can really fear the future. Repressiveness, which comes from the means we spend on armoured men, on the military, on the police and so on, will not be enough to solve or these organs will not be enough to solve the problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with a co-worker! First of all, I would like to, although unfortunately at this point, the minister has no business opportunity to explain what the amount of credit that Dars is actually. Here I hear very different numbers, every day different numbers, none I trust, I trust the minister, because he also told them on the committee, but it would be good for the Slovenian public to know and get information, and this objective information. I'm afraid that's not going to happen at this point. Yes, it has been four years since the Republic of Slovenia became a full member of the European Union and today, even as the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We have several experiences in various areas, including in the transport field. We note that the frequency of traffic, especially freight, at certain border crossings and consequently within Slovenia has increased dramatically with the entry of Slovenia into the European Union. For example, at the international border crossing of the Long Village by more than 300%, which surprised even the authors of the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia. This can only mean one thing, namely that the involvement of the Slovenian motorway cross in the European motorway network for the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union countries is strategically linked. We further note that the Republic of Slovenia must urgently speed up the construction and upgrading of the motorway network, so as to ensure an adequate internal and, in particular, inter-regional integration of the country and its proper integration into international road traffic flows. Of course, this is logically followed by the provision of adequate financial resources. The proposed Act on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to the obligations of the Company for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia provides financial resources for the implementation of the annual development plan and the renewal of motorways for this year, which is in Parliament in the parliamentary procedure for the adoption of the consent of the National Assembly. In view of the need to provide financial resources for road sections and other items under this year's development and re-establishment plan, as well as for the following years, it is necessary for the National Assembly to adopt the law submitted in accordance with the urgency procedure. The law will allow for the conclusion of contracts for the rental of credits and the issuance of debt securities for the realisation of motorway sections under a national programme of EUR 544.22 million under the conditions laid down in the bill. The New Slovenia Group supports this guarantee law, but we call on the Association for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia, Dars, a shareholder company to take into account the optimum conditions of the financial markets when obtaining the funds under this law and to treat these funds as a good host for the benefit of Slovenian taxpayers, not for the undue benefit of operators, but even if they are Slovenian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc - position of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u262	Once again, everyone, say good-bye! Given the scope of the envisaged works in accordance with the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and the annual plan for the development and restoration of motorways for 2007 and the proposed annual plans for the development and restoration of motorways for 2008, additional resources from credits or debt securities should also be provided for the timely implementation of investment projects, since the resources provided for the construction of motorway sections previously dealt with at the previous item of the agenda would not be sufficient. The total investment value of these motorway sections is EUR 2 billion 791.51 million, and part of funding for these sections will be provided from Darsa's own resources, amounting to EUR 616.17 million, and part of the resources already provided, amounting to EUR 1 billion 631.11 million. And if you remember, so far, the National Assembly has given a billion-dollar guarantee, and I think three million and something and today we are making a guarantee for 544.22 million, all of which are the guarantees that this National Assembly has accepted for the purpose of hiring Darsa's loans, the equity company. Since these resources are not sufficient to ensure the construction of motorway sections, debt of up to EUR 544.22 million should be allowed through the adoption of this law, in the form of leased loans or debt securities. The financial implications of this law would affect the budget of the Republic of Slovenia only if there was a recovery under the consent and guarantee law of the Republic of Slovenia for the credits or debt securities issued, if Dars could not afford to provide for the payments of the loans hired. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this will not be necessary, because we trust calculations and financial structures to ensure that Darsa's financial obligations can be met both with the collected tolls and other sources of Darsa's resources. We will therefore support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u264	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister! The DeSUS Group will support this proposal for a law that guarantees Dars with credit and debt securities. We are aware that the construction of motorways is essentially subject to financing through loans and the issuance of debt securities, and therefore it is rationally and economically justified to rent the most favourable loans. We also support such funding by DeSUS Members mainly because this allows for smooth construction and reconstruction of our motorways, so that calls for public works on some motorway sections will be made possible. The adoption of this law is also necessary because of the smooth implementation of the 2008 annual plan for the renewal and development of motorways, the content of which we have discussed in the previous item on the agenda and whose decision on consent we have also endorsed by Members of the DeSUS. The adoption of this law will also ensure the smooth implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways in Slovenia, which is now one of the country's priorities. The DeSUS Group will contribute to the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Friend, position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President. So EUR 544 million, 25 years from the date of conclusion of the contract will be repaid. I think it's the last guarantee and the last consent you need. The roadway programme comes to an end and in the end, inventory is usually made. He believes that someone will find that he will also make an inventory or review of everything he has done, so that the National Assembly will also be informed if it is truly transparent and legally used. I believe highways are necessary. As has already been said, if we unanimously supported the previous item in the agenda, then there is no obstacle to not giving consent to this point, which is somehow related to the previous one. And where the bull goes, the dart goes, they say. Finally, I want the Minister to complete this highway construction as soon as possible and then bring this machinery to the railway, I hope, even in this mandate, a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac is also on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u268	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Two basic questions on my behalf. The first question is whether we have enough money to be able to afford such a loan plan. And second question to all of you, colleagues and colleagues [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u269	Mr Zagorac, it is not the question, but the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u270	I'll explain the questions, so it'll look like a position in the end. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u271	You won't get an answer because Mr. Secretary can't answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u272	Ah, then I ask myself, on my own behalf, without requiring answers from you, your esteemed colleagues and colleagues, even though you can give them to me in the hallway, do we all have a total of 90 mandates for us to be in charge of the people who gave us a mandate of EUR 544.22 million. Do we have that mandate? Did you ask at home if you could vote on this on behalf of the people so they could be in charge? For we represent them in this house, not ourselves, them. Darsa's numbers, someone in front of me said it's a good thing the minister said it on the board. I'd be happy if the person on the committee asked the minister, I was just told that I can't, to tell you how real these numbers are if we all have someone else. The fact is, there will be a final debt if we accept this, EUR 5,459 billion. That's the number we're in charge of. But we have done nothing to make it possible, if we are already in debt or making a guarantee to Dars so that Dars can pay for it himself. No! No! We're even taking some resources from him. Someone in front of me said that we are in the European Union, and we even preside over the Council of the European Union, the frequency has increased on the roads and I don't know what else. Therefore, it is necessary to speed up the construction of motorways. I agree that this applies to countries that have been members of the European Union for thirty years and have no problems with social policy, as does the State of the Republic of Slovenia. And I agree in all parts, except where someone said that, because we are the President of the European Union, we have to build motorways quickly. No, no, no. We need to build highways faster to make the flow better, but only if we can "screw" them. Not because we are chairing the European Union! I do not care if a large European Union official drives a road for six months of the presidency. Let him see how real the European Union is if we are part of this European Union! Social security in this country, rather than the highway, should be urgently ensured. Let's think this way. My predecessor said, "If the bull went, let it go." I agree in this direction, ladies and gentlemen. But when the stroke goes, let us also be aware of our responsibility for this story. For all those 500,000, 2,000, 3,000, 5,000 votes you got so you can sit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u273	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting. You will be informed of the voting hour. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 12th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on annual taxation for the use of motor vehicles under the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u274	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. Allow me to briefly present the purpose of the proposed law. Therefore, the annual duty on the use of vehicles on the market replaces the annual refund on the use of roads which, as you know, is paid each year upon renewal of the marketing authorisation. Therefore, it is not the introduction of a new duty, but merely a transformation in force. This means that the law does not impose any new obligations. There are also no other financial implications. The criteria for determining the amount of the levy will be more precisely laid down by a government regulation already in preparation at our Ministry. However, I can now claim that the amount of the duty will remain unchanged for passenger vehicles. As regards freight vehicles, the height will also depend on the ecological suitability of the vehicle, so that for a lower-emission vehicle the amount of duty will be lower and for vehicles with a higher environmental burden, the duty will be higher. In doing so, it will be necessary to take into account the Directive of the European Union which prescribes the lowest possible amounts that can be charged for the use of heavy goods vehicles. Taking into account the environmental impact of individual vehicles is certainly essential at a time when we face the negative effects of environmental burdens every day. Transport of freight vehicles certainly contributes to a significant share of pollution. It is right that a country with the measures it has at its disposal stimulates drivers to use such vehicles, which are more environmentally friendly, so that we can leave our craftsmen with as much sustainable living space as possible. In the face of extreme climate change, it is certainly no longer self-evident that everyone can freely burden the environment. Therefore, a certain refund is required for the placing on the market, depending on the ecological suitability of the vehicle. Let me stress, however, that such a policy is expected from us also by carriers themselves, who want their increased investments in cleaner vehicles to be properly taken into account. The duty currently regulated by a government regulation is already well known to the user because it constitutes an integral part of the registration procedure, in addition to the technical review and compulsory car insurance, the procedure is simple and already well known to drivers. In this respect, we have not substantially changed anything, since good practice of payments, refunds and the enforcement of exemptions has also developed in all these years. With some minor measures that will further simplify the procedures in force, we will bring the procedure even closer to the users. Dear Members and Members! The proposed law will undoubtedly have a number of positive effects. According to my assessment, it is one of those measures that at first sight may not mean much, but for a longer period we will all feel the effects. I hope and believe that it is one of those stones in the mosaic of environmentally friendly measures that will enable our craftsmen to enjoy a more pleasant space of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u275	Thank you very much. The draft law has been treated as the working body of the Committee on Goods and I ask Mr Josip Bajc, Chairman of this Committee, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u276	Once again, everyone has a nice greeting, colleagues and colleagues! At its 27th meeting on 8.5. this year, the Transport Committee held a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on annual levies for the use of motor vehicles submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the legislative procedure. In the opening presentation at the meeting of the Committee, the Minister of Mag. Radovan Žerjav presented the main solutions to the draft law relating to the regulation of duties by law, which is the only provision allowing individuals to determine the rights and obligations of payment of annual levies. The criteria for determining the amount of duties, the conditions under which the reduction or exemption of payments may be imposed and the question of the procedure for determining the title of the duty corresponding to its nature and purpose, which is also in accordance with the definitions in the Accession Treaty of compliance with the European Community Directive as regards the amount of duties paid for heavy goods vehicles, allowing for the simplification of the procedures relating to the payment of duties, the return of proportional work or the decision to exempt payment. The new law also allows for later simplification of the duty procedure itself. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made specific comments on Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 12 and 16 of the draft law and specifically pointed out the inadequacy of the type and purpose of the duty. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee held a debate and a vote on the articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled, and adopted two of its amendments. In the debate, the number of amendments tabled was high. Similarly, in the case of individual articles of the bill, the members of the committee stressed that the proposed annual duty does not mean introducing a new duty, but rather a refund on the use of the roads we have paid or paid when we register or renew the marketing authorisation. The debate also raised the issue of relief for old-fashioned vehicles, which are rare road users. The Transport Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the Coalition's members and their amendments to Articles 3 and 4. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law incorporating the amendments adopted has been prepared. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u277	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u278	Hello again. The proposal for an annual levy on the use of motor vehicles is being considered because, in fact, there is a double duty on the use of roads with a levy on the use of roads which we pay through tolls or new with vignettes. And of course, the European Union does not allow the payment of two equal duties for the same purpose and, of course, the Government has decided to try to settle this by means of the proposed law. Therefore, the change in the name of the duty is, according to the Minister, intended to transport more organic vehicles. Of course, this may be one of those measures that will help. However, this is an annual road traffic duty, and this road traffic takes place both on local roads and on state roads. Thus, in a thorough analysis of this law, we found that it would also be necessary to divide the duty both to the State and to the local communities or to the municipalities which are also responsible for the maintenance and regulation of local road transport. We have also tabled an amendment to this law, which gives the local communities 40% of the amount of this levy, and 60% remains in the country. The problem with this law is that this duty no longer applies to the use of roads and that the law does not specify exactly what the means of this duty should be used for. Therefore, in our amendment, we also propose that the duty be imposed on road transport regulation and control and on the implementation of preventive and road traffic education programmes. This is a very important task that we really need to encourage and carry out so that we do not address this issue in Slovenia alone and only in a repressive way. How important it is that we have regulated and secure infrastructure and, finally, that part of the costs incurred both by the local community and by the country for road traffic control are also financed by this duty. This, of course, solves the problem, which we have also pointed out to the parent’s working body, when we have found that we do not actually know what it will be intended for. So we hope that the amendments will be adopted and thus solve the problem of both covering costs in local communities and in fact resolving the clear purpose of this duty, which until yesterday or to date is used to maintain roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For starters, I apologize for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. But I'd like to give you some information for my friends in the backseat. On 30.4.2008, it is said, some 22 days ago, that Dars owed EUR 2 billion 378 million. I'm sorry again. Now to the proposal for an annual levy law for the use of motor vehicles. In our country we are currently paying the so-called annual remuneration for the use of roads. That duty is regulated by a Regulation fixing annual reimbursements for the use of roads paid by road users for motor vehicles and trailers. The Law on Public Roads gives legal basis for this giving. Article 11 of the Law on Public Roads was the subject of a judgment in 2004 by the Constitutional Court concerning the provision of criteria for determining the amount of toll in the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court has found that the law must be the substantive basis for the issue of sub-legislative rules and individual executive acts. What's this marriage all about? This annual refund for the use of roads in the law replaces the annual levy on the use of motor vehicles. Let me stress that this is not about introducing a new duty, but simply about transforming it into a valid one. This means that the law does not impose any new obligations on citizens, nor does it provide for other financial consequences. The criteria for determining the amount of the annual duty will be defined by a government regulation, which is already finalised as promised by the Minister. An important message for citizens is that the amount of the annual passenger car duty will remain unchanged. With regard to freight vehicles, however, it is important to stress the good approach that we welcome in New Slovenia, which will also take into account the environmental adequacy of the vehicle in order to determine the annual duty, so that a lower-emission vehicle will be subject to a higher reduction and, of course, to vehicles that are more burdensome to the environment. It is time for the practical responses of the legislative branch of the authorities to the negative effects of exhaust emissions, while also taking into account the European Union Directive which prescribes lower possible amounts that may be charged for the use of heavy goods vehicles. Taking into account the environmental impact of individual vehicles is certainly essential at a time when we face the negative effects of environmental burdens every day. Transport of freight vehicles certainly contributes to a significant share of pollution. It is right that the country, with the measures it has at its disposal, stimulates drivers to use such vehicles, which are more environmentally friendly, so that we can leave our craftsmen with as much healthy living space as possible. Therefore, a certain refund is required for entry into the market, which must be highly dependent on the ecological suitability of the vehicle. It should be stressed that in many European countries, such a system is already familiar with and with various incentives to create the policy of the rolling stock of so-called clean vehicles. Since the annual duty is an integral part of the registration procedure, in addition to the technical examination and compulsory car insurance, the procedure is simple and drivers are already well known. In this context, there is no change, as in all these years good practice of payments, repayments and the enforcement of exemptions has also developed, which would be harmful to change. The legal regime also allows the granting of public authority to registration organisations carrying out technical checks in order to be able to carry out certain additional procedures, which will bring the procedure even closer to the users. The New Slovenia Group supports the proposal for an annual levy law for the use of motor vehicles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Webber. Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u282	Thank you, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u283	Procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u284	Yeah, I'd have a procedural question. That's what I'm asking. Why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not provide information on Dars' debt in the official document in the National Assembly, so that there will be no such dilemma when Mr Horvat presented them in the implementation of the parliamentary group. That's what we keep reminding ourselves of. The National Assembly does not have accurate data, but we are just making new and new commitments, and that is what this is about. We need a rebalancing of the resolution on the national highway construction programme to solve this problem. And my procedural proposal is for the Government to immediately present a balance of the national highway construction programme, so that we can get accurate data on Dars' current indebtedness and also on the maturity of the leased loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I think the government representatives have been informed. I would also say that we are also trying to express the position of the Group without controversy and without mentioning what others should have done. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Special emphasis, Mr Vice-President. In assessing the legality of the toll regulation for the use of roads, the Constitutional Court decided that the law should lay down, or set out, the substantive framework for the sub-legislative regulation of this area. Since the Public Roads Act provides for a substantive framework under which the Government could lay down criteria for the obligation to pay the toll, the Constitutional Court has decided that the regulation should be repealed. This is the first reason for the amendment of the duty under consideration at legal level. The following reason is the change in its name, since it does not relate to the use of road infrastructure, but rather to the use of vehicles in transport using this road infrastructure. In the substantive view, the law does not derogate substantially from the already established solutions in a regulation which has not been criticised with regard to the introduction of the system, so it is not about introducing a new duty, but simply about transforming the applicable duty resulting from the regulation. According to Minister Žerev's assurances, the amount of passenger vehicle charges will remain unchanged, and for freight vehicles the amount will also depend on the ecological suitability of the vehicle. We support and welcome such an approach in the Slovenian People's Party, as all visible climate change due to environmental pollution cannot be self-evident and in some ways unsanctioned - excessive environmental burden. As it is said, the duty is already known and its placement in the legal system will help to avoid inconvenience in its realization, as well as in simplified ways of calculating or charging. The Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will therefore support this law without reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u288	Thanks again for saying that. The bill will receive support from the DeSUS Group. The annual levy on the use of motor vehicles, which is regulated by a sub-legislative act with us, should certainly be regulated at legal level. Thus, it was judged by the Constitutional Court, which in its decision relied on respect for the legitimate principle of the relationship between the legislative and executive powers. Under our legislation, that law is a well-founded and constitutionally sustainable basis for determining the rights and obligations of individuals, i.e. that in this particular case the rights and obligations of individuals to benefit from a duty on the use of motor vehicles may be laid down, lay down a substantive framework for determining the debtors for the payment of an annual duty, the criteria for determining the amount of the duty, the conditions under which the reduction or exemption of payment may be imposed, and the questions of the procedure. More specific details of the system's arrangements will need to be covered by sub-legislative rules. In the substantive sense, the law adopts and retains the existing structure and system of this type of duty, which means that the law does not impose new obligations in view of the introduction. The amount of the passenger car duty should also remain unchanged, following the assurance of the applicant and the Minister of Transport. However, it is also true that those vehicles that contribute more to environmental burdens are also more burdensome financially, thus promoting the purchase and use of more environmentally friendly freight vehicles. The law in its solutions follows well the established national legislation and practice and respects the European legal order, and the choice and replacement of the title of this type of duty is certainly more appropriate in terms of correct public understanding and a more consistent terminological definition in view of the purpose of such a duty. Most of the articles have been recast in the legislative process, in line with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and we have considered in our Group the possibility of improving the text of the law also with regard to the amendments that are still available today for inclusion in the draft law. Members of the DeSUS will also support the proposal for an annual levy for the use of motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u290	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In fact, we have already heard the opening part from both the Minister and all the debaters so far, so I would not like to repeat what has already been said about the fact that this is not a new duty and so on. In the Slovenian National Party, we have examined some other articles worth talking about. First, let me say that the proposal for an annual levy for the use of motor vehicles is at our discretion and evaluates slightly more than just a correction or a replacement of a law. Let us be honest and happy when we read it. Among the first important contents or elements that confirm our words that there is something more in this law, it has been stressed, and it is right that it is repeatedly emphasized, namely, to consider the amount of these benefits in terms of the impact of the environment. That's very encouraging. In doing so, let us say that this is not just about the environmental impact of pollution. The impact on the environment also means the weight of vehicles driving and destroying the environment, the soil and also this element - which is why I am grateful to the Government for its inclusion in the content of the law and in the articles - is taken into account. Specifically, in Article 5, where thank God we are starting to read, I apologize, in Article 4, where we begin to read once to take account of engine capacity in determining the amount of duty in passenger vehicles, and in buses and freight vehicles the maximum permissible mass. I hope that the calculation will be such that, on a large, maximum mass, there will also be a much larger charge. Article 5 is also very important in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. He's talking about a fully-forgivable annual allowance. In doing so, I would warn the Government, and please, if you listen and try to help with this work, that it is in connection with Article 6, but I think I need one correction. In fact, I do not mind and support that certain vehicles are fully exempt from annual benefits and then all these vehicles are listed, including police, fire department, emergency medical vehicles, etc. Well, the vehicles of diplomatic and consular missions, missions of foreign countries, etc. are listed. But if we compare this to the contents of Article 6, where we are talking about exemptions for disabled people, disabled drivers, I would ask as I did earlier where we made one progress, what the volume of a vehicle's engine has to do with disability. For example, I personally and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party have been disturbed by the provision in Article 6 of the exemption for disabled persons with engine capacity of petrol engine up to 1800, diesel up to 1900, automatic transmission up to 2,000 cubic centimeters of volume and another 2200. I think it would be fair and right for us to define ourselves more according to the degree and form of disability and not to limit - disability is linked to the volume of the engine. I think that this is small and unethical and unethical and unfair compared, for example, with a complete exemption - and once again I say that I have no objection to - diplomatic cars. And there's something else I'd like to say about this law and the message it's giving. Once again, it is right to take account of the environmental impact of vehicles and that these benefits are lower, cleaner, less polluting the environment. And that is, I think, a good incentive for another element that we will or will take into account by our colleagues from the Government. It is not only by lowering the duty or exempting those who care for the clean environment, I hope that this will also affect vehicle sellers and that vehicles that allow a cleaner environment will be cheaper than other vehicles. One step can also be taken in this area, which will result in good decisions. I'm just saying that we will support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u292	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We're essentially legislating a regulation and I'm supporting the law. To think about just maybe one fact, I will say it very domestically, "who smokes more, should pay more", regardless of the form of the vehicle, either it is a truck or it is a passenger vehicle. Some European countries have already embarked on this principle, and I must say they are succeeding. Some countries even went so far as to ban certain motor vehicles from driving for a particular form of engine in the city center when it comes to emissions. But I must say that I fully agree with my predecessor when he mentioned disabled people. There, too, I think that one very minor correction should be made where the disability rate would not be equal to the engine or engine capacity that this disabled person is driving. Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u293	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovatbo presented the position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u294	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the proposal of this law not only for the elimination of the inconsistencies established by the Constitutional Court but also for the fact that this law will also provide a much clearer definition of the type of concepts that have previously fled people. In doing so, I would point out, as one such case, only the opinion of a number of people so far, who felt that, in extending the registration, they were paying a duty, which was actually marked as a toll in the previous law, which meant that they were paying tolls for the use of motorways, which they did not. The new law strictly introduces a new name for this duty, one which is very clear, the annual levy on the use of motor vehicles. The new law also allows for later simplification of the procedure, so we welcome the principles of legality in the regulation of duties where it would highlight the duty rate according to the technical characteristics of vehicles, the promotion of the use of environmentally more appropriate vehicles, the promotion of mobility of disabled persons, the removal of administrative barriers and the simplification of the procedures themselves. In the substantive context, the law does not derogate substantially from the solutions already in force in the Regulation on the establishment of annual reimbursements for road use. This is the reason for maintaining the existing structure and system, as is evident from the bill itself. It is also clear from the material provided by the Government that it will remain, in principle, the unchanged amount of the annual levy to be determined by the Government in more detail by means of a sub-legislative act. The amount of the duty will not change for passenger cars. However, when determining the duty on goods vehicles, the ecological characteristics will be taken into account by establishing a greater discount for a less-emissioned vehicle. This will lead to a policy of stimulation for the purchase of less-emissioned vehicles, which is undoubtedly extremely generally positive. The law provides that the annual duty on the use of motor vehicles shall be paid once a year by road motor vehicles and trailers registered in the Republic of Slovenia. Its height depends on the law of certain technical characteristics of a particular vehicle, depending on the category. Thus, for passenger motor vehicles the engine is the key volume and for trucks, as we have already heard, the maximum mass permits. The law also provides for vehicles for which an annual duty is not paid. These include simpler vehicles with less engine capacity, such as tractors, intervention vehicles and vehicles representing other countries or international organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the law, exemption from the annual duty may be imposed. This option is open to certain categories of disabled persons, provided that the vehicle meets the prescribed technical specifications by law. On conclusion, I would point out once again that the duty is already being collected as an annual reimbursement for the use of roads and that its dosages and method of collection do not change. Therefore, the adoption of the law directly will have no financial implications for the state budget. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u295	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. However, before we go to the debate on the amendments, let me inform you that last night or at 17 p.m. in consultation with the leader of the parliamentary groups, we have decided that, as long as the point of the proposal for a referendum lasts and that today's discussions on the remaining items are too long, we will stop the discussions around 10 a.m., vote on those points that will end the debate and the rest will move on to the next day, which is now more relaxed, because there is an extraordinary meeting. This is how I predict that I will conclude the debate at the end of this item. We will discuss this point, and these amendments, until the end, and then we will move on to the vote, and the other points that have been announced for today will be discussed tomorrow. I also propose that, given that all the parliamentary groups and Members can now be informed that, after the conclusion of the debate on this item, we do not wait half an hour until the vote, but, for example, ten minutes after the conclusion of the debate under the 12th point, we shall proceed to the vote. I'm asking if anyone's up for it. Does he have any thoughts? [[No, no, ……]] So we end this point with a debate, and then after ten minutes we move to the vote on yesterday's points and today's ending points. And we're going to take it to tomorrow, and we're going to deal with it by the fourth point, tomorrow. So we are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 21.5.2008. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. I'm opening applications. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u296	Thank you for your word. Local communities have been given very large and important powers under the Road Safety Act in regulating traffic control in settlements. Indeed, this law imposed on local communities to control traffic also on state roads running through settlements. And since this is an extremely large number of state roads, 40% of these go through settlements, it is an extremely heavy burden for local communities, which is also associated with costs. And with this amendment, we propose that the annual levy be divided into 60% into the state budget and 40% into the budgets of the municipalities. With this, we believe that we would somehow follow what the proposaler wanted to enforce by means of a road safety law. At the same time, I think that we will really enable the effective exercise of control and all those tasks and the organisation of services and the acquisition of equipment that is necessary for this law to be actually implemented in practice. Let me remind you that, from the state budget until this division of powers between the municipalities and the country was adopted, the country has never been able to provide sufficient resources from its budget to effectively monitor traffic on state roads in settlements. And it is similar that it is expected that this will not work for the congregations, but if we provide a dedicated source for this, this will certainly happen. I therefore propose that this amendment be supported and that we really allow the municipalities to carry out the legislative tasks imposed on them by the law on road safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to make a call this time and then I will no longer be, Mr President, and I also ask that I should also say a few sentences to Articles 2a and 3 because I estimate that the amendments are similar and that they are primarily bound. First of all, it is good that, in the first examination of this law, all those who have examined it have found that the original paragraphs 2 and 2 were premature. And it is also good that already in the updated proposal there was a second article which says that revenue from annual duties belongs to the establishment of the provinces of the Republic of Slovenia and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. However, if we are now thinking - not in a political fight, in terms of a political fight - the amendment that is before us is good and real and fair. Last but not least, you know that we who have changed certain laws that transfer power in the traffic regime from the country to the municipalities as well. Both institutions are important. I think it is fair and fair that these revenues are actually shared in the 60th budget of the Republic of Slovenia and 40% of the budgets of local communities. Why am I saying that the amendments are connected? I would refer this claim to Article 3, which also specifies precisely the purpose, if - and I hope - that we will - harmonise and adopt today's amendment to Article 2 to the amended proposal of the law, we also have in Article 3 or in the amendment to Article 3 a cover that this is not something to be afforded by some mayors. No! No! The amendment sets out very precisely where to go, what the money should be for if we accept the amendment to Article 2. However, the amendment to Article 2a is certainly necessary because, as I recall, we have agreed and accepted a more ethical and moral principle for me, and if you want to use both sexes as a marriage. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would actually suggest that we push the policy back a little bit in this case, because, after all, this 60:40 division will come exactly at all between us, because each one of us, regardless of which political option belongs, lives in some local community that will do this money - if you will, of course, assign it to her today by adopting the amendment - do what is said in the amendment to Article 3. And in fact, I will not talk for too long if you allow me, because there are few amendments, we will also support the amendment to Article 5 in the Slovenian National Party. This is mainly because we raise the high technical culture of people and car lovers, which should be passed on to young generations and which should bear many fruits. People, for example, among us Mr Geza Juban, are putting a lot of effort, time and work into rebuilding old vehicles, nostalgia, and thus equipping young people to fall in love with such technical services, and to start respecting order and discipline in the field in which today's topic is - that is, in the field of transport. I think that this esteemed assembly, by adopting all the amendments that have been tabled, would do only good, but only a fraction of the better to do so, at least in our opinion, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, a well-prepared law on annual taxation for the consumption of motor vehicles. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u299	Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I would at least try to comment on this proposal, or this amendment, as regards the division of this duty into the country and the local community, as has been said. In short, in the original version of this law it was envisaged that when the provinces, the complex amount or the whole levy on the provinces, were to be amended by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Otherwise, we must now make it clear that this duty actually has nothing to do with roads. This duty is actually a ticket to enable the vehicle to enter the market. And with this law and the corresponding regulation, we will also, in fact, start to implement in some way, so to speak, a transport policy, a European transport policy that will have to be paid more and more by those who will have vehicles that are burdening the environment. Those who will have such vehicles that weigh more heavily on the environment will have to pay more and vice versa, those who will have less polluting vehicles. For starters we start with trucks, but in the future it will certainly be a topic for all other vehicles, personal vehicles. And I say, this will certainly be one of the instruments of future transport policy, not the only one that can be saved, but certainly one stone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u301	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u302	Thank you. Well, if I understand correctly, the Minister has actually supported this solution, because we are not actually interfering with the environmental transport policy measure, if I may say so. This duty will remain so designed and will also be collected, as the Ministry will set out in the regulation. Since this duty is paid, of course, the duty has been distributed both to the State and to the municipalities and measures are being implemented which are primarily intended for road safety. I think that road safety is still well-written in European transport policy, so that we are actually trying to be more concrete, clearer and even more effective than even European transport policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u303	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 2a and to the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u304	Thank you. This Article 3 really sets out very precisely what the duty should be intended for, and the fact is, although we are trying to charge these taxes on the basis of the ecological criteria or characteristics of vehicles, the very purpose of this duty, when it comes into the integral budget, is not, of course, defined in this law submitted by the Government. Thus, this environmental duty will be lost in the integrated budget and, in fact, it will not have the desired effect that any duty created on the basis of the traffic that is taking place will not be returned to this area in the same form as is likely to be expected or has been in the past period, as the road charges are also intended for road maintenance. Because we have a toll system, it is not possible to impose these taxes or duties again for this purpose. We therefore propose that the duty be imposed on the regulation and control of road transport and the implementation of preventive and road transport education programmes. I think we are united in the need for very effective road transport education and, finally, effective traffic regulation and control. There are many measures that need to actually be implemented both on state and local roads, so that traffic can take place safely, so that it can be appropriate signalling, pedestrian corridors, cycling routes, in short, safety, transparency. Education of road users is also of paramount importance and it is right to pay very specific attention to this area also through this law, when we provide very concrete means for the implementation of these activities. And I think that every participant in traffic, when, as the minister says, pays the ticket to be able to enter the road, will be satisfied if he knows that this duty will go into the road safety system, and that he himself may have less, I will not say the costs or any critical moments that could lead him to damage property, himself, passengers or other road users. Thus, these preventions and measures in this area are of paramount importance and I think it is really very wise and necessary for us to allocate these funds both in the State budget and in the budget of the municipalities for this purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u305	Thank you. Anyone else? Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 5 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group. I can only see one hand, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are dealing with an amendment that talks about maintaining or supporting a technical culture. He's already mentioned that it's old-fashioned vehicles. So we're dealing with vehicles that are over 25 years old, but these are not vehicles that would just be in a group of old-fashioned vehicles, but they are vehicles that have to have a certificate of competent professional services to be really old-fashioned vehicles, a certificate of originality. Since the Minister has warned the assembly that we are dealing with a tax law that allows the vehicle to be put on the market, these are vehicles which must nevertheless also have a technical review and meet all the conditions necessary to enable the vehicle to be in traffic. So they can be registered. These are vehicles that are on average less than 5 times in one year on the road. These are not trucks to fix - maybe there are 15 or 20 vehicles in the country, these are old-fashioned military vehicles that occasionally appear throughout the country. In order to carry out an economic activity, we know that 25, 30 years old vehicles are not useful and are out of the question. In comparison, insurance companies in the Republic of Slovenia charge only 10% of the duty on such vehicles, which is present here. The Committee has also taken on this amendment, but the Legislative and Legal Service has suggested that we were at the time at the sixth amendment, which they said might not be the most appropriate. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment to Article 5, which was already placed on the Committee at the time and was no longer possible to deal with that article and, therefore, we have tabled an amendment to this Article through the procedure of the National Assembly in plenary session and we are assessing that this amendment could reasonably be supported. In view of the number of vehicles in Slovenia, we estimate that some financial consequences of this amendment do not have or fall out, because 20% of the benefits, which are some stimulation, are also registered for this reason, which are few times on the road, and that there are so many more contributions to this bill than it would have been. I am counting on this amendment to be supported, and I also assess that the Ministry, on the basis of consultations, can decide to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u307	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 5? Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u308	Thank you. We will also support the amendment to Article 5, as old-time vehicles not only preserve the technical heritage and owners of these vehicles, but are actually a wonderful promotion of a technical culture both within Slovenia and at all those events where these vehicles appear. I think it's very nice when you meet either on domestic roads or in other countries, vehicles that drive in a column and represent a generation, some type of vehicles that are certainly extremely reverent when you meet them in this modern technology and actually at some point when we're not even paying attention to what's going on in traffic, but if traffic somehow combines with these old-time vehicles, it's all even more enjoyable, more interesting. And it is right that these vehicles take into account these reliefs, for this in fact also contributes greatly to the preservation of our technical heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u309	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u310	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! I'm sure it would be a relief for these vehicles to be welcome. It goes as colleague Weber said, to preserve cultural and, above all, technical heritage, which can flow from Slovenia to abroad. A lot of it's been lost. This is how we are warned mainly by collectors from different clubs, including both organisations that issue these certificates, say SVAMZ and the SVS point to this. It was true that much had been done two years ago when the first insurance companies began to decide to reduce insurance premiums, until today, when they actually all realized that because of what many of these vehicles were actually registered, and I think the country could also show here a gesture of goodwill. The financial effects would certainly be positive, so, over the finger. This means that all those who now have one vehicle registered for that parade once a year or two would also register other vehicles. This would also improve this image of caring for a technical culture in Slovenia, while also gaining someone else. Otherwise, it can really happen that this will begin to flow rapidly abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u311	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have indeed discussed this amendment and have also sought compromise solutions, and the Minister's representative has not given a negative answer, and I also consider, as a proponent of this amendment, that this cultural heritage or this technical heritage in Slovenia is not so large and that this activity is quite valuable in Slovenia and for such and other purposes it would be good to have at least one incentive from this side come from the State for the benefit of those who preserve this heritage, which also promote and compete and do things for the benefit of both vehicles and societies. And this contribution would be minimal for the country, but for those who own these vehicles that they have, I think it is a welcome that this country also supports. That is why I personally support this amendment and hope that others will also support it for the benefit of this heritage in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u314	Thank you very much. I'd like to continue where my colleague Janc ended up. In fact, we tried to find a coordinated amendment on the Transport Committee. However, given that we have been under consideration, I think that, at Article 8, and there was a warning by the Legislative and Legal Service that this cannot be amended there, but we have already passed Article 5 in which this should be regulated. I understand, however, the Ministry's response that we are trying to follow the objective of the law to stimulate environmentally appropriate vehicles, and therefore, for those vehicles that are more burdened by the environment, these duties should be higher and for those who are less burdensome. Given that these vehicles, as my colleague Juban said, may be taken five times in one year on the road, and given that it is proposed in the amendment to pay 20% of this amount of compensation for the use of the vehicle, and as with all other reasons, what some, I think, also, what they mean for the technical culture of our countries, I will personally support this amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u315	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would say this, given that I just asked the Member of Parliament that these vehicles were 500, I think it would be good if we supported this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u317	Thank you. Anyone else? No, then I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed in 10 minutes, which is at 9:40 a.m. by vote, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. We continue to hold a meeting of the assembly, which will be held in the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you for checking the voting system. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways for 2008. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads: "The National Assembly agrees to the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways for 2008 of 25. 4. 2008." We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the DARS, d.d. from credit and debt securities issued for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Road Construction Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 544.22 million. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 12th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for an annual levy law for the use of motor vehicles. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We first decide on the amendment of Article 2 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 2a of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 13. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 22 to 45. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 5 of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Mr Juban, on his behalf. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only for colleagues who have not previously been to the debate in the Chamber, the Government supports this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u320	Thank you. Mr. Bajc, please. In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u321	Thank you very much. I'd go on where my colleague Juban ended up. The Minister has also determined that the Government supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u322	Thank you. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present for 66, against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration at this meeting. Please. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u324	Thank you. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. On Wednesday, 28 May 2008, the National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Mental Health. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on mental health is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Health Committee for a second reading as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending the law on the harmonisation of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 37. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a property management law obtained from the sale of state shares. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on the management of assets obtained from the sale of state shares is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Zmaj Jelinčič Trimenite, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to the parliamentary question of Mr Viktor Jelinčič Trimenite concerning the protection of the Slovenians living in Kosovo." We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 48. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Školč, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Jožef Školč's question on measures to reduce social differences." Explanation of vote; Mr Školč, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. These days, the SDS Group submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting where it is scandalising over certain privatisations in the Republic of Slovenia. My question was about the promise of your party president and the Prime Minister of the Government that he would spare no effort to reduce social differences and reduce poverty in the Republic of Slovenia. The information given by Umar speaks differently. My impression is that the Prime Minister doesn't read these analyses, but if he reads them, he doesn't understand them. I would therefore suggest that you support this debate, which will certainly complement your idea of the situation in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u326	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 46. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Franca Žnidaršič will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of mags. Franca Žnidaršič in connection with the coordination of transfers." We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 40. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with Mr Dusan Kumr's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for the Economy of Mags. Andrej Visiak asked Mr Dusan Kumr about the sale of state property." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, two raised their hand - in their own name. [[...]] Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr Minister answered this question yesterday that the sale of TDR-Metallurgy was an economical good deal carried out by the State. It turned out that the state sold the property for EUR 229 000, already within a few months after the new owner sold only parts of this factory at millions of euros. The Minister does not wish to provide data on the evaluation of this company when he speaks of the fact that the state did not want to sell the assets in part so that bankruptcy would not occur - more than 200 people are unemployed today. We would like, given that the Slovenian Democratic Party wanted a discussion on how to clear up certain ways of selling state property, to discuss the Minister's response in particular in the light of how to deal with people who have lost their jobs today, because his statement sounded very cynically that the loss of jobs would not be very familiar. How should the ruling party and the Minister coming from this party respond to those workers who are out of work today? There are still a number of questions that are open. How many millions of euros have been spilled, for which we do not actually know where they are today, since the sale of non-business assets, which have occurred with the consent of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, which is 100% owned by the State. If, of course, we want to have transparency and a clear conscience towards the people who lost their jobs in the good year when this property was sold, then I am sure that you will support the debate on the Minister's response to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u328	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u329	Thank you very much. This is also one of those issues, if we could discuss it, we would avoid this special session required by the SDS. If the SDS really wanted to clear up the things people in Slovenia are talking about, then this meeting would be supported. These meetings will certainly not be supported by SDS Members, precisely in order to shift attention to other things. When members of the opposition, as well as others who are not close to the President of the Government, ask questions about the things where they appear, I will say, the fingerprints of the ruling party, then vote against the debate. When it appears that someone should be in charge, an extraordinary meeting is convened. If you are free to hold accounts in front of citizens and citizens, then support this debate. Mr Pukšič, it would be good for you too, not least in one of Mr President, I think that with the support you give to these colleagues, you are, I will say, extremely insulting to the Institute of sent questions and to decide on procedural proposals. [[...]] I'm kind of embarrassed that I sat my time in the chair where you're sitting. This has never happened as it is today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u330	Mr. Sculpture. I think you've got what you wanted with your provocation to Mr. Puksich. Anybody else want some? Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u331	Thank you very much. I'll be extremely brief. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In particular, I would like to appeal to you in some way that if you really think in June that we are going to have a discussion in the National Assembly about state property, which in one way or another went into unauthorized hands to support the debate on these small "tykuts". And this is one of the little tycoons as an overture to this debate. If you do not support this proposal, then I can be sure in advance that you do not think or think about seriously discussing this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u332	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u333	Thank you. I expect all Members and Members to support the proposal to discuss the response of Minister Virant to this question, because ministers before the National Assembly have sworn to act in accordance with the requirements for the well-being of all. And they signed an ethical code. What has been happening lately in the National Assembly, where ministers have been irreverently responding to questions from Members and Members, where, in the course of this disrespectful conduct, neither the President of the National Assembly nor the President of the National Assembly has been able to protect the integrity of Members and Members, it would be good to hold a debate on what this Government is actually doing for specific people who are without employment while the state is shining alongside, but I am referring to the Government in this case, of course, when the Treaty has been signed and when the Government should be the guardian of good governance. We write down a bad card and do not be surprised if the National Assembly always has a lesser reputation among people. Now is the opportunity to discuss what has happened, because it is a pattern that repeats itself. Minister Visjak doesn't know anything about Paloma, he doesn't know anything about Metallurgy in Russia, but he knows 13% in Mura, and he doesn't do anything about it. Let's talk about this, not 81 companies that you found out were okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u334	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 29 to 35. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Gantar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for the Economy of Mags. Andrej Visiak asked Dr. Paul Gantar about the allocation of radio frequencies." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 45. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ljubo Germić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Visiak asked Mr Ljub Germić about the effects of the sale of shares in state companies." Mr. Germich, in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u335	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. It's the same substantive question. Mr Minister, once again, I stress that this is a very transparent procedure. I, my fellow Members and colleagues, am really surprised if Mr Minister gives you such a statement that you are not prepared to support the debate on his reply, where, of course, this process could also be explained in substance. Once again, two written questions I addressed to him, the first - November last year and the second - February this year, he does not wish to report on the company's appreciation. He doesn't want to. When it comes to the fact that the sale did not take place by works, this company, by HSE, agreed very quickly to sell parts of this company, although the contract stated that it expected to maintain jobs, extend production capacities and extend and modernise programmes. It's not like that. And today people are out of a job. At the same time, the minister says that he will take care of the employees and that HSE will act carefully in relation to the employees. Then I wonder whether it is not fair for these people to assume this obligation under this Treaty, which they should have had employment under this contract by the end of 2009, to assume this obligation by HSE. Please also say that you are against such solutions against the people who have been creating this company's assets for over 80 years. And we want to hold a debate on these issues. Questions that to this day have not been answered clearly. And if you really appreciate the social state enshrined in the Constitution, I am sure that by voting you will also show an attitude towards your understanding of social issues. I hope this time you will correct the error of your previous vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u336	Thank you. Anyone else? Looks like it's a number of hands. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u337	Thank you for your word. I'm not gonna ask anyone else anymore, and there's only one thing I'd like to tell you about. Of course, in this debate, about tycunization, all this data and documents will be on the table here, so that no one will say that I'm kidding and that I'm talking about it. But I tell you today, Members of the ruling coalition, 2006 was signed by the Government and the holding company, a binding treaty that began to break within a month with the help and knowledge of this holding company and this government. And the man who bought the factory for 200,000 euros in a bad year earned 35 times the stake. And that money doesn't even know where it is for now. At the same time, there are large sums of some other things. Once again, this is some kind of overture if you really want to discuss these matters. It wasn't a signed contract, it wasn't in 1992, it was in 1995, it was in 2000, it was in 2006. And it's been a year and a half today. Someone picked up the money in their pocket, and 200 workers got workbooks last week. That's what it looks like. And you obviously don't want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u338	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also sincerely and very strongly support this debate. Because I am a former worker of this factory, because I am the mayor of the congregation where this factory is located, because the consequences, apart from the workers, will be suffered by the congregation and because I have been monitoring it for at least a good half year. And after the discussions I am hearing, on the questions that have been sent to the Minister and on the answers that the Minister has sent to the National Assembly, I see that I know most about this. That is why I would like this debate to be opened up so that we can also participate in this debate, because we cannot do so in asking questions to ministers. In order not to confuse the data here and there and to the left and to the right, it is appropriate to hold such a debate. To identify who and what has been wronged and to draw certain consequences from it. I agree with myself that there must have been quite a few business errors. I know that the custodian of the contract has spent more than ten thousand euros on audits that are not up to us, which they do not give us if they are required. And I know that when HSE's leadership was alerted to weaknesses, nothing was done since last summer. On my five demands to meet with me, there was no negative answer, nor was it that they didn't want to meet with me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u340	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The time is coming when we need to consider whether we should look for other ways to talk to people about these mistakes and injustices. I would remind you that in 88, for example, there was a lot of illegality and that this was why these things were discussed in public meetings outside the institutions. I assure you that we will find ways to ensure that if you do not allow us to talk about these things in this Parliament, that we will talk about them before Parliament, that we will ensure that the public is adequately present and that the people you stole can talk about these things. By not allowing a debate in Parliament, by not allowing the opposition to vote within four years only on matters not approved in the SDS. I'm sorry, there were two of them, three in four years, maybe too many, let's leave it as it was. By not allowing this to happen, you are forcing us to question something that should not be questioned in a democratic Europe. I assure you, once again, if you do not allow us to talk about these things in Parliament, we will make sure that people talk about them everywhere, that ads will be paid for and that this shame will go into the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u342	Thank you. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It's far away from Maribor, further away are the Rushes and the problems that arise there. The giants in Maribor collapsed, this country did not care much, but Maribor was always so distraught that there was no revolution that would help to avoid self-reliance. Kicking workers is a cough for us, respectable colleagues and colleagues, apparently, for those of you who won't support it. It's 320 people. But there's something else to do with it. You know how much they had to do with us. A member of the Supervisory Committee was one of the leading officials of the Social Democratic Party in Ruša pardon, SDS, I say goodbye, Slovenian Democratic Party, well, colleague Anderlič. One more thing, this man who bought it was then awarded a concession, a state concession, to build a home for the elderly both in Lovrenc and in Ruša. And if this is not the case to be discussed here, then forgive me if I take Belgrade, the devil will take me. And it would be good to support this thing and to clear it up here for the sake of ourselves, our internal hygiene, to look at these things and, after all, for the benefit of those people who have been very affected by it, because the Rushes have stood, worked for years and years with this factory that they have had, the state budget is full, and people have been working on it for years and years. And that any doubt that in this case it was in any way a party's involvement, that any doubt would be overturned that the Minister and the others did not act properly, would be a good way to open such a debate in the National Assembly, so I will be very pleased to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u344	Thank you. We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 34 votes in favour, up to 30. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 30.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting, as set out in the decision adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Mitje Slavinca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Viszak asked Dr Mitje Slavinc about respect for the broadcast theory in public calls." Mr. Slavinac, on behalf of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u345	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the Group of Members, I propose and at the same time ask you to support the proposal to hold a debate on the answer to my question. It is not only the Minister of Vision, because the question raised by the two ministers, the Minister of Vision and the Minister of the Beast, was meant, and so I told the other ministers on the same question as the Member of Parliament. It is a very simple matter, namely, why someone from Lendava, from Murska Sobota, Podkorna, Obrežje, Kopra from Juršinec should be on the road at nine o'clock in the morning to submit an application for an invitation to tender by 12 o'clock at the Ministry, if this, like the Ljubljanaians, can do it fifteen minutes earlier, fifteen minutes earlier to deliver to his home post office. That's all it's about and nothing else. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u346	Mr. Slavinec, please, only you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u347	Thank you very much. So, I'm saying it again. It's a very simple matter. It is only one and simple thing to do, instead of having to call, but at many ministries, not only on what is stated, to hand over physically by 12 noon or send it, say on Friday, the whole weekend earlier, to come to this ministry on Monday by 12 noon, instead of everyone across Slovenia being able to deliver it to their home post office that same day until that same hour. Or, of course, if he's near the Ministry, he's physically taken away. And that's all I'm suggesting is that we do it for the sake of greater equality and more equal opportunities in Slovenia. Since the Minister somehow did not understand all things, I ask you to support this thing, and if it is supported, I assure you that we will do a very great deal of benefit to all who live outside the continuum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u348	Thank you. Mr. Sok, in your own name? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u349	Thank you very much. I must say, Dr. Slavinac, I didn't understand exactly what he was going to say, so I can't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u350	Thank you. Since there are several deadlines, I am opening an application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Please, everyone who wants to do this, sign up. Mr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u351	Thank you very much. My friend Sok didn't understand me. That's why I'm going to repeat it in my own name. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] I wouldn't know what to do with it. It could be premural. [[...]] Thank you very much. So, I'm saying it again. Comrade Sok, someone from Ormož wants to file an application, any one of them. It's 12 o'clock at the Ministry. There's got to be a check-in there at this hour. What does that mean? Whether he sits down, Ormož is also good two hours to Ljubljana, or sits more than two hours earlier, he goes there, goes there and goes there and goes back. He lost time, thus having a certain cost - significantly greater than someone from Ljubljana who walks across the road and gives it away. Wouldn't it be better if someone from your congregation walked across the street on the same Monday and turned himself in? This is the content of my mission question and initiative. So that matters are evaluated or the application for an invitation to tender reached the Ministry, to this and to this day at this and this hour, but was it then submitted to the Ministry or to any post office in Slovenia that same day until that same hour. With this, we will provide all Slovenians with more equal and equal conditions in the tendering process - on the whole of Slovenia. And what's gonna happen? As a result, nothing is significantly different than it will be because it is a post office in Slovenia and because it is usually a time limit for broadcasting on Monday, on Tuesday there, they open on Wednesday because they have 60 days or at least 45 days to broadcast, nothing at all in the process itself. Once again, as you can see, one very constructive thing. I think everyone in their right mind just supports her. Thank you for your sanity.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u352	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u353	Thank you for your word. I will gladly support this constructive proposal from Mr Slavinc. True, it is difficult to understand all things at a time when the clock shows as much as it appears. It is true, however, that when we asked parliamentary questions, the hours were much earlier, the concentration was significantly higher. It is true, however, that when Mr Slavinac asked this question, we were here, I think, 6, if I remember correctly, and then he had much more time at his disposal, even for you, who do not understand certain things. This is really a constructive proposal, but we can also understand it in terms of decentralisation or easier form of reporting of individuals, either from Ormož, Juršinci, Kopra, Kranjska Gora, New Town or from elsewhere, in order to be able to apply equally for these calls. And for the last three days, you have been filled with the mouth of decentralisation, so I have no doubt that you will be happy to support this solution or this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u354	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 43. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Darje Lavtijar Bebler, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, to Mrs Darje Lavtizar Bebler's question on the New Law on the Public Sector Wage System." We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport of Mags. Radovan Žerjava on the question of Mr Sreč Friend regarding the development and reconstruction of Slovenian railways." We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milan M. Zvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Visiak on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for the Economy of Mags. Andrej Visiak asked Mr Saš Pečet about the sale of state shares." Mr. Pece in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u355	Thank you very much. If the National Assembly were to vote on that debate, that is, the debate on the sale of capital investments by the Court of Justice, Kad and those directly owned by the State, it would also be possible to hold a debate in addition to the allegations of secussion. So it means we wouldn't just point at the finger, but we could face the arguments. In other words, in my opinion, with the support of such a debate, I would like to take a closer look at all those acquisitions that are not made by the word tycoonism on the basis of party affiliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u356	Thank you. Mr. Gulic, in your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u357	On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u358	On behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u359	In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for an extended debate on the response of the Minister of Economy. In fact, the story behind all these stories, as also discussed by colleague Saša Peca, is a series of small winners. Now, if we have some already-named tycoons out there, certain ones, then of course, there's all kinds of "Tykunts" and "Tykunics" in here. There's a lot of that. Both funds work very imprecisely, there is no data, some things are clearly going unrepressively between Mr Bayuk and Mr Pogacar and so on and so on. I hope that you will support this, not by accident, but by doing something so purely out of your mind. After all, it will also shed light on many of your stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u360	Thank you. Mr. Sok, in your own name? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u361	Just for a little while. I would like to remind my colleague Gulic that he was probably referring to Mr Pogačnik, not Pogačar. So all he knows is that he doesn't even know how the Director of the Soda is written. However, if I recall him a little longer, if I may, the National Assembly has considered the report on the functioning of the Court. So what he said was that these two funds are working intransparency and that there's going to be dumping and so on, it's not true. However, if he had this to say, when we have considered the report that the National Assembly has issued, I think that he could support it in the majority or even unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u362	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 41. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
